ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u1	There will be time for a conference between the clocks. 13 and 14 today, due to committees.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u2	No matter the 4th mg. 10th par. A convergence on the length of meetings is suggested by the president that a conference can last longer today than what the Senate puts it to say. Do they want a vote on this President's proposal? It's not. It's not. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u3	Mr. President. This is a vote for the government's proposal to put down the Development Agency and import all its projects into the Ministry. The group is against this proposal, we believe the YSSI has done a great job and is a modeling institution. She has received praise everywhere for her work and new words, both at home and abroad. It is important, however, that this delicate group of subjects be made up of a high degree of paradox. That is why the government has gone very far in an effort to negotiate with the majority of them. We have suggested a suggestion that we view as an acceptable compromise for everyone. It means that a development research agency will be brought whole into the Ministry and Labouring, where it will continue to be a government agency on the basis of the form that was, in fact, created space for by a change in administrative law that went into effect in July. Also, this includes her employees being excluded from transport duties. Those who want to settle, those who mean they want a new strategy, vote this vote, and so we'll settle on this. Those who want peace, despite the offer of peace, break it down. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u4	Mr. President. The record of this government on the affairs of evolutionary cooperation has now become more than very sad. Its first task was to abandon the agreed development programme and to substantially reduce contributions to this important problem category as a proportion of GDP. Since then, a new program on development has not been adopted, so the fate of this group is determined in financial terms. The proposal in the budget depends on the limit. The minister of state suggested in spring, but he was not approved, and now he is to bite his head off the shame by laying down a profession in the area of the seminary and moving him into the Ministry of State. Mr. President. I feel that this is totally unconcerned about this important party, and I am very disappointed to see how a case has been held that should have been settled and that has been tried to reconcile the political spectrum so far. The issue, as well as the other actions of the government in this case, is disappointing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u5	A respectable president. I thank you for the discussions that have become of this bill that is being elected here. What we will soon see is that a united organization will be able to begin to operate and take part in this vital matter. Our goal is to do better, to improve our effectiveness, to make better use of the money and the cool staff involved in evolutionary matters, both in Developmental Development and the Ministry. The adjustment proposal here will vote for is, unfortunately, not designed to change the arrangement that is currently being agreed on. Actually, it is the means of moving in that arrangement so that the adjustment in the motion in itself means little change in the current activity. That's why the board of directors cannot accept it. However, it is a pleasure to be able to relate that after the increase we have seen, e.g. to the refugees and to the other projects installed in budgets, we will raise from 0.21 to a range of 0.25 percentages, which are due, among other things. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u6	President. It is clear that there is a complete revolution concerning the worse development of this government, and that is sad. How sad that when we are speaking of an institution that has been highly respected for professionalism, this is how we should be bowed down! I think it's very sad. In our memory, we have tried to point out our faults and to bring some form of interaction under the front of the storm. paritaprevir But this has not been the case with Skarphéðinn, the son of Skarphéðinsson. Once again, we experience the usual, larger part of it, no matter what.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u7	A respectable president. A bright future does not support this unity, but we are behind the changes in the memory of the item that we believe is an offer of reconciliation to try to maintain peace in this category. How sad it is to discuss this proposal and put into it all the energy that we have put into it now, in a row, at the same time that we do not have a valid evolutionary teamwork plan, and such a plan is not proposed. That's what I'm talking about. The minister of the State mentioned earlier that our proportion was rising is only due to increased advance to refugees. Our contributions to developing cooperation, as we know it, have been replaced by two - sided development cooperation, leaking if something is and it's bad, it's sad.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u8	A respectable president. The proposal that we vote here should be an opportunity and a basis for a management decision. However, accepting this suggestion is not enough; it must be followed. I miss the discussion about these and other matters, not discussing them. I also don't understand why, in many places, people don't talk about things the way they are. Our financial contributions, both proportional and in numbers, have been greatly increased to assist with development. Hv. The above - mentioned senator said that this was just what had to do with the searchers, a development aid. In fact, we can say that the Norwegian countries are saving conventional development support against donations for the rest of the population. [[The point is, it's also...]] I don't know why in the hell we haven't calculated these things correctly, but like the highest. Minister said we're taking this up considerable proportionately and these things are to be discussed according to. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] No matter how much it should be, humans should discuss these things as they are and book them as they are.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u9	V.E.G. President. We're about to vote for a change in bill to legalize the law on Iceland's international development team. I feel very sad about what happened to this group and how much apathy I have felt about developing matters in a large part of the council. It is a group of languages that is of utmost importance to the future, and that is why it is so important to settle matters for how we have these things. That's why the smaller things have what they need. The State Department proposed a change. So I speak for myself, I feel that I am going very far in terms of this change, so I feel sad to the highest degree. Ministers don't want to give this up, because I think that with her we could get closer to being at peace with the jury. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u10	A respectable president. I'm incredibly sad about this conclusion of the government. There are several reasons why. First, because there is a breach of a peace over the group of lawsuits that has existed here for decades. During 2008, a total law on the legal party that is now breaking peace was adopted here. I am also sad about the development of issues in development, and I am especially sad that an institution with international recognition - although the amount has been low, it has been effective everywhere where this organization has worked. It has also remained within the framework of the budget and has been an exemplary organization in this regard. It is absolutely clear in my mind that part of the board here votes with this proposal for saving, such as the roost. paritaprevir Guðlarge Þórðarson came in, but the minister has told us here that this is not the point of it. A respectable president. In this room, no one knows exactly what he's doing because they did not observe this discussion and the weight in it here, but they were just branded as some sort of power at the government stand. [[The president calls.]] They'd have been more alert, so they knew what they were doing here. This is a tragic day for developing cooperation on the part of Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u11	A respectable president. In all of this, we have tried to meet the minister and his point of view in this regard. We have provided a number of suggestions to try to compromise, and all of them have been rejected, each one and every one. We made a postponement over an equal assessment conducted by the Agency next year on the behalf of FAC. We've also offered an extension of the recording process, and now it's gone very far, way too far, in my opinion, toward the highest level. Minister by talking about presenting to the Ministry. But it is also rejected. This minister will take the administrative part to the most direct point of war on developing cooperation. I have to say, just as it is, in all this matter, it has been driven by a very different paradox. That's all there is to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u12	Mr. President. In the summer, new legislation on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland began to be highest. The government was leading the country. It draws almost creative to an institution like the one we recommend here, i.e. There is a new form of the Ministry Office. In this case it would include the highest. Minister would have the government of the Agency. The new form would rule out all that he thought was unhandled, as it were, which would ensure that the Agency and the Ministry of State are moving in rhythm. All the best. A minister would like to succeed in this proposal. All the government holds is that the workers of the Development Agency would be excluded from transport. In other words, the minister is offered a parapolitic reconciliation and every minister of foreign affairs from Ólafur son of Jóhannesson up to the one who has now worked hard to achieve a prerogative agreement. [[The president calls.]] That's the top one. Secretary of State prefers warfare for development when offered for peace. [[Invented in the EU...]] [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u13	V.E.G. President. The Office of Ministers, such as the European Commission Act, actually matches all the changes I have heard in a case at the highest level. Secretary of State that he wants to do something about these laws. But what we in the smaller part have put tremendous emphasis on, including Because it has been observed by all the experts who have visited the committee, it is necessary to protect the level of professional knowledge in this article. Therefore, it is stated that the Agency's staff should be excluded from transport obligations. This is of utmost importance to promote professional cooperation. So I'm going to support this team in the transition and I really hope that more people will.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u14	Mr. President. I wouldn't be honest if I didn't say that I was very sad about that conclusion. I think we're here on the wrong path, but at this critical point, when a developing research organization that has done very well in all its work and has been very prominent in recent years, there is nothing more to do than ask for the highest power. Ministers and all employees linked to successful development in a new expedition. I'm afraid this will be long-term harmful for development cooperation, but I still hope I'm wrong. In this matter, it was very important that the government side stretched as far as possible, but this conclusion shows that there is nothing to mark the new members of Congress who have come in and have their mouth full of declarations of new employment, new reconciliation, and new politics. This is no more than a gap from power, and we in the government stand to take home the fact that when the government forces are offered peace and reconciliation, it prefers war. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u15	Mr. President. This discussion has been strange to my knowledge. Rarely have I found such little conviction for any matter here in the Hall of Congress, and rarely have I felt the same lack of conflict in a matter of government, and this, of course, raises doubts that there is strong conviction behind the change that is being made here. It seems to me that this is running the case through in greater force without any particular conviction than I restate what I said before, with this change as the political part of agreeing, he is highlighting his indifference to an enormously important sect. I am so disappointed to see how this greater part has been carrying both contributions for development and for its construction. I'm so disappointed, and I'm saying no to this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u16	A respectable president. This, sadly, is an ambitious issue of evolutionary cooperation. We would have put all this force together to do better in the group of paintings. These are some of the most exemplary institutions we have and directly submit to the minister's authority and, unfortunately, open up the risk of being a professional carp and the group's suffering. I'm totally against this change and we're in a better future, but at the same time we can only wish for the staff and the seminars to be the best of the future and hope that we'll succeed in a better outcome and a happier ending, although, unfortunately, I'm not feeling that way today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u17	V.E.G. President. I'm celebrating this ending. I am glad that the power of those who work on evolution is united under one government, that all calm in one direction, that power and knowledge will be better than ever. This is a big step forward, and I wish the Secretary of State, the State Department, and the staff of the Development Agency to congratulate them and wish them all luck in their jobs. I know this will be a good thing, and in order that the power of those who do these jobs in Iceland will be more useful, is it because of the highest satisfaction and say - can I get peace with a vote, Mr. President? [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] Can't humans control themselves here? I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u18	A respectable president. This vote has been longer on the program than the oldest members remember, two council members, and a discussion longer than I know in such small matters. I still confess I don't understand anything in this matter. [[For example, consider: Yet you say yes.]] I let myself have it for a simple reason, for my kindness toward the minister of foreign lands, and I expect my kindness to look deeper down on him. This is not an irreversible project, there is not a explosion of an elf church, and if this proves to be wrong, it can be turned back. I'll give it to you, yes. Thank you. [[Take it back, take it back, take it back, take it back, take it back, take ……]] [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u19	A respectable president. The entire sector itself has spoken against this and has called this crisis, the Agency's employees, university scholars, and those in this field of service. Then the members of the board allow themselves to come and congratulate these people by day. One of the most presumptuous things I've ever seen. It's one of the most presumptuous things I've ever seen. It tells you people don't know what they were doing here. A respectable president. The decision being made here is something that I know people will soon regret because they are taking an institution that's done well in their field and that's healing it with the ministry. What would the same members of this room say if a decision was made to unite the energy of those who are making transport planning and building roads inside the State Department of the Vega program and enter the Ministry of travel? Then you'd hear something in men here, but not allowing it to be equal, as I do, to tell you how you respect and appreciate the group of evolutionary cooperation, the people here to decide to put it down. [[The president calls.]] It's a disgrace, a respectable president, and I'm totally against it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u20	V.E.G. President. I'm primarily sad about this vote because I'm concerned that this includes reducing the professional quality of development and in the world that truly needs to be given the greater support to the poor. A developing cohesion agency is an institution that has achieved tremendously well and should, in my opinion, continue in its professional ways. I have to hope, however, that the highest. The minister of state can keep a big point about this being all right, but I will be very close to this class in the future and leave me all the right to bring criticism if I don't seem to be doing well enough. I'm gonna say no to this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u21	A respectable president. This has been a hand of agreement in an effort to get something that men feel can find pleasure in the future order of these important matters. They are struck naturally by the hand that is in the spirit of power and indiscretion of this government. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u22	Mr. President. We have often been able to deal with the big lines in foreign affairs in Iceland, and we have at times debated how much money we could spend on developing cooperation. It's kind of going to have to be an achievement at the highest level. Ministers of foreign countries are also able to create armed conflict over the arrangement of how we employ it. The failure of the government in this area is absolute, and it is shocking that people will spend their time in this way rather than be proud of Iceland, with increased donations for developing cooperation in harmony with the better national economy, thus contributing to the agreement to meet the UN's goals in this regard to the eradication of hunger, poverty, and disaster in the world. No, that's not what it is. Secretary of State is fighting for, that Iceland will do better on that subject, rather than on the basis of a conflict in the arrangement that has been well agreed on until now. It's hardly possible to get down in performance with this group of subjects than at the highest level. The current minister of foreign affairs, the government and most of it at the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u23	A respectable president. I'm pulling back to the point. Government opposers never make any savings proposals. We need to look at some savings options. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir to unite the Roadmaker and the Ministry. I don't understand this thought, I'd think if men really were thinking that using developing help would save in the administration. [[Up front.]] This must be a way to do it. That's what people must do. [[Up front.]] There has been a tremendous increase in numbers and proportion in this budget for development support. Because we have developed assistance to the EU for some reason, I believe we should make greater use of it to help the poorest nations. I hope there's support for that. General, but let us not forget that at one time we were in the position of being the poorest nation in Western Europe. We would never have had a chance to get out of it by getting access to other markets. [[The president calls.]] The best development aid is the free trade agreements, and I hope that there's an agreement that we're adding to a vacation store in the world, but we don't go to the union. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u24	Mr. President. This is a high political issue that reflects basic political differences. This aim is to reduce the efficiency of the tax system. So here it is said to reduce steps in the step - change tax system and continue to abandon the balance effects approved in the tax system of the last government. This is a basic question about the right and the left, of the ideologies that the tax system is not only a revenue but also a balance of income, and it was reflected in the discussions here yesterday. As a result, in the left movement, we will have a ◯ green supply against the reduction of tax steps, while sitting by various of the other features of this bill. The big issue in this bill is this fundamental concept of controversy, which is where we reject the national ideology of the government, where increasing insurmountation can have a damaging effect on the economy of the nation's people to work as hard in the weakening of society's income populations as has been done during this ideal period as warnings have been given. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u25	A respectable president. This bill involves a wide range of tax issues. We will not support, but vote against the money tax change proposed on the bill because it is not reasonable. Other better and more suitable tax reductions can be brought at this point that is not a source of encouragement. It would be possible to spend the same amount of money to reduce insurance and thus support the company's ability to pay more money and increase the number of employees. Here is the unwise setting of priorities. We will support some of these changes, which fall into our core policy in the Community on lower tolls and disability reforms found in these changes and otherwise sit by.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u26	A respectable president. This tape worm that enters the council every year is always as much as a big testimony to how complicated the tax system is. The loss of a part of the work at the Committee on the bill went on to try to resolve a number of complications in the valuable tax system and elsewhere. This is a testimony to how difficult it is for the government to reach its high point on a simple tax system. I don't think the insurance bill was that complicated, and there seems to be a very small plan to simplify the value tax system as it should be. In this schnitzel, we have a positive, positive, and otherwise yellow. In the larger lines, we warn to reduce income taxation at this point, in the uplift of the economy. The decrease in income taxation is the quality to be owed in the event of compression. Instead, we're supposed to lower insurance money because it's supposed to be low in good times because it's gonna have to go up when it's too late. [[The president calls.]] This is a very poor economy, as well as a reduction in income balance effects in the income tax system by decreasing the paces. We're sitting by those changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u27	V.E.G. President. For 2016, we take votes on various grounds of a bill for the budget. There certainly is the highest tax policy around here. Governments that continue to lighten the household tax, focusing on the intermediate groups, such as the highest. The government promised in relation to collective agreements in the spring months. The changes, however, benefit all income groups. The levels are reduced and the levels of income are reduced from three to two in two years. It continues on the course of toll increases, making the most of the removal of tolls on clothing and shoes. All of this is the process that enhances the income and the financial resources in the country, thereby improving the standard of living as a result of increased efficiency and simple tax and extraterrestrial subsidies, which are moderate and to the point of maintaining stability. Then, at the end, I want to thank you for your cooperation with the Committee between discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u28	President. The most serious elements of this bill are changes in the income tax system that reduce the income balance role of the income tax system. As a result, the growth in society will decrease. It hurts. Research shows that equalizing in society not only makes a righteous society but also good for the economic system. Economic growth is growing in such a system. Therefore, we vote against these changes in the income tax system. There could have been support for the job life to increase the pay of the people in the country who need to increase as they are now, by changing the insurance bill. It's a bad way, as unfortunately, so many things that come from this government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u29	A respectable president. As for the income tax system, I believe these measures are not primarily at the appropriate time. Piranha and I tend to listen to comments and to draw some conclusions from them. In terms of this simple income tax system, I have to state to at least myself that reducing taxes is not the only way to simplify the tax system, especially when this procedure is expanding, especially at times like this in the economic climate. It's the wrong time, that's the biggest thing I can do when I come to conclusions about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u30	President. First, I want to thank you for your cooperation with the committee that discussed the matter. It is obvious that in this matter there are some things that must stand out, and I find it interesting to listen to this discussion about the vote. First, we are, yes, doing what was said, reducing the number of tax steps again. This decision was made in connection with the making of collective agreements in spring, and it is a cause of great happiness because of the weight of the tax and the peripheral taxes of all up to 700 up to yours. K. may be decreased. Jaret taxes are way too high in Iceland. Tolllar is taken down. This is a huge breakthrough in customs in Iceland. As early as the New Year's season, customs will be dropped by clothes, shoes, and several small groups of products, and then we'll take further steps in a year's time when everyone else will be toll on food. [[The president calls.]] I'm just saying, congratulations, Icelanders, with the huge increase in business freedoms that come with this. In the end of the tax reduction there was no time, was there, to reduce taxes during the crisis, and there is the same people who say this is neither the right time. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] Now they say it's too much better to lower taxes. [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u31	A respectable president. The search for a time convenient for a left person to lower taxes is still being carried out. It's been going on for a long time. It is not yet revealed, despite the fact that left men have been in organized political organizations for a long time. Of course, there is great joy in this regard. It's interesting that none of them had any trouble. secular authorities say that they are at all times concerned about those less fortunate, the detolls that are on the move. None of the prisoners were fully suspended in the history of this government. [[Up front.]] It's wonderful news, especially for underpayers, and I'm amazed. Government senators to calm themselves at first, and when they're down to celebrate, this is good news for Iceland and especially for low-payers eins a og. paritaprevir Skarphéðinn's ass knows what's best. [[Up front.]] [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u32	Mr. President. It is sometimes said that the government fund has few friends, but most often you have confidence that the minister of finance was a decent government fund and had some concern for him. [[He owns me.]] I have to say, when I hear it, I get chills. The minister of finance and the vice-president legal committees are coming here, and they are not thrilled to learn how well they are doing down the state's income in one case after another. And the outcome? It is that this government is not successful in terms of budgeting three years in a row, and it is shoving with the regular management of state funds at zero in the third year in a row next year. It is all the responsibility shown in these matters. I have to say, just as it is, when all the NGOs have common sense, practicality, and solidarity with Iceland's state funds and welfare community, it's proof that these right groups haven't learned anything. It's the same ideologies that almost hit Iceland in 2008. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u33	A respectable president. In a brief talk earlier, I said that we welcome one thing and another on this bill, even though we disagree with the big lines, but why. paritaprevir Gullish Þór Þórðarson is not listening now. I'm going to meet his point of view here and now that no one has been happy that customs were being canceled. We rejoice in the bright future, and we do so in our committees. However, we suggest that we find it strange that we are not taking tolls off food and why are we not taking steps to eliminate customs from that important consumer product. We're also glad that the rent income is being raised, and we think it's a very good step. I came here to be positive, but I'm also glad that a tourist guide goes down to 11% on a merit tax to reduce the level of decomposition. However, I noticed why. A senator did not rejoice. Is he against it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u34	V.E.G. President. Only in terms of the tax policy of this government, its tax changes have led to the increase in government income beyond what it would have been because we have taken taxes from the population and finance companies far beyond what the left administration did in its working time, so that it has made room for the rest of the government and taxation, the breakdown of taxpaying, the depletion of tolls now, and the loss of income taxes. [["Don't... "]] It's made room for all of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u35	A pensioner.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u36	Then there is the fundamental thing that we will continue to discuss here, that the cake is expanding, resulting in increased income to the State. Therefore, there is a period of time for the relief of homes and home debt, the payment of insurance debts. I will continue to discuss tax policy and tax politics, but I refuse the judicious judgments the government receives here and say: Those who have to get excited about this are expected to speak for something known as extreme enemy Idolatry. [Applause in the Assembly Hall.]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u37	A respectable president. This is evident in the speech talk of the highest degree. The secretary of finance and the vice president of the budget that the press has returned to the eyes of the lndependence Party leaders, and a coat has been placed for the ears. There's nothing to listen to, nothing to see. What we have to criticize is the timing of the total total income tax loss. When I'm at the highest. The secretary of finance says that the monopoly of high tax pressure at a bank because of its historic circumstances justifies the general tax decline does not understand why we had to increase the taxes we had to deal with the collapse. It was because all government income agencies had been decomposed, they had been destroyed because their goods had deceived men into the real administration of the State. [[Up front.]] There was no money left in the financial administration of the Independence Party to reduce taxes after a crash, as would have had to be done. [[The president calls.]] That's what needs to be avoided, but unfortunately, this government is going back to the same shit. She does not understand the disciplined financial administration, and she does not understand that tax reductions at the wrong time harm society, but tax reductions that do not result from filing, such as the reduction in insurance costs today are wise and correct. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u38	A respectable president. It is true that here the difference between the left man and the right man in tax matters is crystal clear, but how sad it is when we consider removing the medium - income tax factor done in connection with collective agreements to listen to left men who often do not want to protect what the labor movement has been doing! [[Up in the hall: right.]] This is a pact - this is a pact -- [[What labor force...?]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u39	That's wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u40	A respectable president. It's not weird, though. The chairman of the Conspiracy, the aged Páll Árnason, dislikes what I say - that is not wrong. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u41	...the labor movement...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u42	[[Take it up for: ASI.]] Isn't it true that you're going to a punk, huh? A senator, or a silent man? [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. Here there is a political dispute that leads to goals between right and left. [[The president calls.]] We're in charge of tax cuts, tolls de-reflances, tax bills, and we don't protect shit, okay? þm. The Árni Páll Arnason [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u43	You want credit. You want to tax patients.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u44	While others speak, try to keep quiet for a moment. Get in a drunk.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u45	It's your policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u46	It is strange that the president doesn't even need a day but several times a day admonishing the senators to give at least one minute of the members of the council to report their vote or to address the vote, even if it is only for the one minute, and then not to continue continuously after these brief speeches have ended. After that, they continue to insist on calling forwards and staying in the chamber. The president does not appreciate it, and he has grown tired of having to give constant counsel. [[Up front.]] He directs his words to all members of the council, and he has repeatedly stated this under speeches and according to the talks of the individual council. [[Up front.]] Of course, that is true of speech, and the president has discussed it here many times.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u47	Mr. President. The government's tax policy is in favor of the more prosperous ones in the country and increases the discrepancies in this society. It's just the cold reality, and when people give up money in this way, it means that we can't afford to raise the benefit of the elderly and the desperate; we can't afford to improve the situation at the Land Hospital; we can't afford to add to the community and build road transports in the country because taxes in society are a means of building a strong social welfare society. There must be right men to understand. How sad it is to see that right men are breaking down this welfare system by changing the tax system in terms of their wealthier than their material memory! [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u48	Mr. President. Well, there's no reason to get upset, but I think it's a big deal. The minister of finance speaks of extreme friends, I think he said, in the case of a discussion that includes OECD. [[To answer...]] V.E.G. A minister earlier said that this was about expanding the cookie, but what does the report OECD from December 2014 show? It shows that a tax system that increases the balance of income in society is also causing greater growth in society. I haven't heard answers yet. Minister or wk. Councilmen in this report or their plans to recommend OECD to their Member States to take this into account in their economic policy. [[Up front.]] It's just talk about extreme unrest. All right, Mr. President, wouldn't it be desirable for us to have a objective discussion about this? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u49	A respectable president. I think you're absolutely right. paritaprevir Katrín, Jacob's Jakobsdóttir, said that we should be more objective in this discussion. I think she must take this matter up at a council meeting of the left green because she has to. The minister of finance was referring directly to the word. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, who used this expression in no uncertain terms. V.E.G. A minister was pointing out its folly. I'm excited about the news from a council meeting with the left green because I don't doubt the only moment this will be discussed in that field. A respectable president. I'm gonna pray now. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson's respect, I think it was the most bright speech I've ever heard from him. He certainly welcomed the changes here, and that is so well done. I want to use this opportunity to express great satisfaction but to encourage people to think only the thought to the end if they believe that a decrease in taxes always means a decrease in income. I just want to take one of the most striking examples, when the joint capital tax dropped here and, as a result, they dropped their rent from 40% to 10% and see what it came down - just for example. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u50	A respectable president. I'm just going to mention in terms of the last governments and the government of government that when the collapse had struck, the debt of the Icelandic state had been paid very much. Iceland's wealth was in a very low debt, so it was in a very different position than the government funds from most Western countries to cope with these tragedies. That's not true. paritaprevir The Árni in Árnason's life was earlier told that only some foam that certainly were problems here and nothing was done in this situation. The debt was paid, it is important to maintain it, a respectable president, but it is true that the 2008 budget, the first government budget that came into power in 2007, the 2007 government government of an independent party and the United States, became a huge increase in government spending. That is a fact that cannot be overlooked. Then I agree with what's been said here, it's understandable that if you need to talk about language here, it may not be quite fair to be the short president of the Independence Party, the Supreme Court. Secretary of finance, for what was said here at the beginning of the matter. þm. Steingrímur J. Sigfusson. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u51	A respectable president. It has been helpful to observe the debate between extreme rightness and extremeitarianism, where people strive to call each other "gammering " and to bring big things. The fact is, though, that center policy has fallen on top, and that's good, we have managed to reduce curses on the public and raise contributions to welfare that I think is exactly what we all want with the bone, right? [[Up front.]] I just want to review the story if I'm allowed to do so because of it. paritaprevir In 2007, Áll Árnason's Árni forgets that the Union had the constitution in which the state's spending was increased by 20%, and oil was put on fire, and I think it was the drop that filled the meter in terms of gradation. Then I think, "What?" paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's mask should also recall the goals set out by the last government in the Ministry's publication, goals that seemed rather modest than the government never managed to get close. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u52	A respectable president. There is much talk about the left and the right, and a certain language that follows it. In my opinion, this is not simply a question of the right or the left. More complex examples than whether you want more taxes or you want more expenses. These are bigger questions than that. The practicality of the economy also needs to be considered. Now there's more to the economy. Now is a bad time to lower taxes. I would like to have taxes as they are so that when, I say, the economy slows down is room to lower taxes. I'm in favor of tax reductions, but this is the wrong time, and here it has been noted repeatedly that when the government's budget and policy are not on the same schedule, there may be a problem. I thought it was right to come here and just mention it, not everyone is just left-handed or just right-handed. Conditions are important.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u53	Mr. President. New - health policy, hard right policy, on taxes peaked in Iceland during the years before collapse when pressure on the highest income, a so - called high - income tax, was dropped in Iceland's super-paying and supernova. In the United States alone, there was a growing trend in the number of years, as shown by all national and international measurements. It's being held in the same direction. The tax system is being reassigned. That's a fact. It's the political road we're on. Besides, it's got the highest. The minister of finance is not more ambitious than the one who is happy to cut off the wealth of the state at zero for three years in a row. In the sixth year of economic growth, in a time of ebbing in the economy, this government will have no success in improving the survival of the state. It was a sexual desire, an inflammation of new - free thinking, and a new - free mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u54	V.E.G. President. We're here to vote on the basis of budgets for 2016. In terms of the tax reductions and the tax politics that appear in this bill, and we're about to vote, we're glad to celebrate because we have governments coming to work market parties, reducing taxes, and supporting our professional life in improving the quality of life in this country. That's what this budget is all about, and that's why it's a budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u55	Mr. President. Here we are votes for a step in reducing tax levels. As mentioned in our talks, we violate these changes in the tax system and vote against this proposal from the balance of income we've covered. We will also lie down against them, where they will happen later on in this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u56	You say no?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u57	A respectable president. We in the United States place a lot of weight on the multi-stage tax system. The same is true of the labor movement, and it is presumptuous of the government officials to arise here and attribute the labor movement to the action here to vote for. However, this is a policy presented by the labor movement, followed by the labor movement, which, of course, has to be in accordance with the policy of government. This is an unwise change at this point, it would have been normal to spend that money to reduce insurance bills. At the same time today, the Navy complains that the government does not help to stop the thawing; it increases the growth from month to month. It's a strange contribution to that conflict by the government. This tax reduction is all likely to fade into the resulting in inflation. [[The president calls.]] It's an example of a mindless economy, as stupid as it possibly can be.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u58	A respectable president. Now the spears fly between the left and the right, and we in the bright future are not involved in that war. We simply try to look at this from our understanding of and what we see. This is where the possibility of using the income tax system is reduced. We're against it, we can't support it because it's better to use the income tax system than any other system for income balance. Although we are all by trying to reduce the spell on people and we would have wanted to see insurance bills fall, we still find that when you consider Iceland's economic history, it seems more difficult to control in a more favorable way than a crisis. Today, there has been considerable financial growth, high commercial progress, and low fuel prices. [[The president calls.]] There are a lot of dressbacks coming up, and this is not the time point for loss of income tax. We're supposed to wait on her, and that's why we can't vote for this vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u59	V.E.G. President. Regarding the article itself, I like to support these changes to simplify and reduce taxation, to make more provision, and to make more money available to the homes. The forms of change that the greater part suggests, but we call back to 3. Around., there are 1st and 2 points, facing a common tax assessment. Very good, 2nd. regarding the matter, it was said that much had been discussed in the committee on the subject of gender, just nothing, and we certainly want to set an example in this regard. So the majority decided to call it back between discussions and a meeting on that subject so that we can get the best of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u60	A respectable president. This is a vote for a change in rent income taxation. I would like to call the attention of the world's council on Analytica's opinion that follows the general wrapping bill for influence, among other things, on this change. The evaluation of the company is that the impact on the general rent is substantial and that it can increase the number of apartments up to 460 and decrease rent by 3.8%. This is part of three major operations. One can be found in the bandormin, and two are in the budget bill, which is part of the government's declaration in terms of collective agreements. It's a very good thing, it will promote the housing market in Iceland, and, of course, I will support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u61	A respectable president. It's a very good thing. We're celebrating. There is no need to tax renting in this way, and it can be said that the cost will go into the prices and take the bites of consumers. Of course, competition must be in place to cut down rent prices, we know that, and hopefully to the highest. The Minister of Social Affairs, his case. We support her in that. It's a good thing, and we'll vote with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u62	Mr. President. Here, the smaller item suggests a 35% rise in child damage limit to a 270-point reduction level. K. in a single parent, not 200 you. K. At present, and with married couples and couples, this limit will be 540 you. K. not 400 of you. K. Right now. What has happened in the budget and in this discussion on various grounds is that a child - welfare policy is being changed. Children's compensation for underpayers is mainly aimed, not all scale, as it has been. That's a change in policy that we haven't had enough political discussion about, and I disagree with it. I'm sorry to see that much of the senators seem to want to change this policy without any political discussion, but I say yes to this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u63	Mr. President. It is true that this vote is focused on the fundamental policy of the classes. Right men at the Council want child damage to begin at 200 you. K.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u64	Same as you.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u65	Same as we, yes, but things have happened since the fall of 2012, the highest. Financial and economic ministers. In fact, in those days there has been inflation and change in human resources. The smaller part is that child support does not start cutting until the minimum wage is 270. K. in 2016. It is not a request for such an officer, but it is a suggestion to correct only the injustices that are clearly achieved by right men in the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u66	A respectable president. Here at the General Assembly, we agreed to legalize the sum of children's child reforms in the previous one. 600 million of it was returned to the budget for this year. Perhaps there is hope that by raising our thresholds as we recommend, the child support we have agreed on in the budget to the people we want them to go back to but not to return to the state fund. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u67	Mr. President. We're still on the move for the highest plan. Governments that will no longer plan to evict the tax system and reduce tax levels. We're told that the middle phase is down. What is the advantage of three steps, and how can you make use of a specific step that takes into account the lowest wage in the country? Yes, it can be used, as was done during the last term, in order to protect the most paid group from tax pay. This will reduce the amount of money in the income tax system if this level disappears. In time, this will lead to a heavier tax burden on a lower and average wage unless one wants to run the state's budget back with a throwout that may be at the highest. The secretary of finance and the government is all right. These changes are not for the benefit, neither from the viewpoint of responsible government nor from the viewpoint in this country. It's a tragic setback, and it's a pity to always follow the Independence Party in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u68	...your party.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u69	Maybe you shouldn't be surprised when two right groups get together, or the right category, and the appropriate class, that this will be the result. [[The president calls.]] That's what history starts to teach you.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u70	Mr. President. A more simple tax system is not automatically a more righteous tax system. The changes in taxation as a result. Councilmen are agreeing here on 5.5 billion dollars in 2016. They benefit best from those who have a choice with us generals, 6 of whom will be ours. K. on the basis of this tax reduction, while those with a lower salary are less paid and those with the lowest salary have no salary at all. This is a priority for the right government and, while older and desperate, a group under the minimum salaries, who are starving in the land. It's a shame.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u71	Mr. President. The confusion over these matters involves the lack of proper tax steps in Iceland because of the personality discount. We have an infinite number of tax steps. The tax burden is unchanging by the way the pay is paid on an individual basis. This is where we're making a minor change. We are extending help to people in the country to relieve the tax burden that reduces the loss of the midpoint, but because of the personality discount, we continue to have the same nature in the system. Then we should never take up a discussion about income taxes without discussing the improvements at the same time, as it should be noted, for example, that the net stocks of the income tax system are not from the seven first income sources. It is only the 30% highest earners that return net income to the state when we have considered the improving systems. It is really impossible to have an intelligent discussion about the income tax system without looking to how the personality discount and, at the same time, the improving systems play together. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] What a fine change that is! [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u72	A respectable president. These are some of the important products, consumer products, general needs for public, clothing, shoes, etc. We're in a bright future. This is in accordance with our priorities and policy. I want to use this opportunity again and again to encourage the score to become further steps. Still important consumers depend on substantial customs, food, and I think it is obvious that in a world that is constantly moving toward more than demand for food and, above all, for good food, such as Icelanders produce, it is more absurd to maintain a protective quality system in food. We are looking for an export and are primarily a food export nation because fish are food. For example, what is the competition with lamb? Why do we have something so high on lamb? I'll just mention examples of the obvious product that we're producing ourselves. [[The president calls.]] We need to take further steps to break customs and watch food, but we support this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u73	A respectable president. In the past, a tax reduction was advertised on the side of the United States. This is where they see him. We've been talking about a reduction in the number of necessities we've had all along. We've been in that peculiar position when we've dealt with the nightfalls that now defend the government class that when it comes to the reduction of food customs, it has never been allowed to be discussed. It is never the time to reduce taxes when it is time to reduce their curses in the country's homes by an independent party and a forward party. And I think people should seriously consider if it's not time for us to support the government parties in cleaning up the warehouse jungle and now we're lowering customs. [[Up front.]] Do they have any excuse for any supertoll systems in the groceries anymore?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u74	A respectable president. This vote and the first are straddled from a complication that has remained in the valuable tax system for a long time, the confusing of alcohol into a higher worth tax level, and the possible mineral water mixed with alcohol in the same bottle was in the lower level of value taxation. This created a lot of complications. This is by raising alcohol costs, and after that alcohol will be added to a lower level of value tax, so it will come out on one. It's getting a little complicated, and the committee did a pretty good job of doing it. A bright future supports this. Although I have not been in general involved in the increase in alcohol consumption, I am now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u75	V.E.G. President. Here we are meeting the demands of my producers and suppliers because there is a conflict between the return of merit tax and alcohol tax. For a certain safety reason, the liquor fee is more frequent than the credit. To meet the increased burden of my manufacturers and immigrants in this field, meet them in this increased financial binding, contributes more of the item to collect on alcohol charge through a one month's requisition.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u76	A respectable president. This suggests an extended energy tax for a large industry that will remain at the end of the year. It is interesting to see the government's tax policy on business. She may feel that she can tax the resources of knowledge companies which are payable, but she does not want to tax the resources of the industry, such as electricity. She does not want to put the real price on the price of fishing companies by having a common fund paying a fair fishing fee that reflects a real resource value and she does not want to pay the expenses of tourists, of course, for tourism. There is only one article that is really meant to carry the cost of its assets, and it is an knowledge firm that needs to carry the cost of pay taxation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u77	Mr. President. I say yes to this proposal, and as a result, I present it myself. I believe here is a lack of overall vision of how we want to be paid off by our resources and jobs. I think there's a problem with the vision. The energy tax was part of a certain overall vision during the last terms, which meant that we should put in the context of resource efficiency and tax policy. I'm describing a policy like this, but I'm looking at it. The members of the greater part don't want to follow us on that journey. I'll say yes to this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u78	A respectable president. This is an extension of a government fund to avoid allowing a share of insurance money to slip into a job remuneration fund. I'm aware that there's money entered into a remuneration fund by other means, but much less than it should be at the original agreement. I just wanted to explain my vote to call attention to how it is to abuse the insurance money. It is disassembled into certain institutions and is to finance stocks and unemployment benefits, it is to finance recycling, the equations of the disability burden of public life funds, etc. However, the trend has been that the insurance bill is just to turn into a pay tax. The government will not allow these institutions to come to the fore but will bring them right into the state's treasure. Unemployment rate is down, but the insurance is not down. Things don't go into the employment remuneration fund and still don't lower the insurance. [[The president calls.]] There is a risk of prolongation of maternity vacations, and still the insurance rate does not decline, so this is just an abuse of this income market. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u79	V.E.G. President. We're here to react to prevent the interaction between the microenergy pension and the payment of microenergy and age-related biofuels and income insurance. These changes are being extended so that a comparison can take from year to year to prevent unwanted cross-reactions from occurring. At the time, a landmark agreement between the government and the National Association of Pension Funds was reached, and it is well. So I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u80	A respectable president. It's a pleasure to vote with this feature of the bill, which is the least of the disability-employees. All I want to do is commend the administrative part for having decided to extend the pivotal convention as a matter of course. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson correctly described and was reached in 2010. We worked hard to reach an agreement with a pension fund, setting nearly 2 billion to finance that agreement at the time of no money, working on it all in 2010, and it was completed at the end of the year by the time of the high court. Minister of Social Affairs, The Guðbjartur of the vow Hannesson. It is particularly enjoyable to vote with its extension now, and I reiterate compliments to the government sector for continuing this national campaign.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u81	A respectable president. I have to admit that I had a bit of a problem deciding what to do in this article and the next because here in the 45th chapter. discusses the status, administration, and practices of the National Church, and parishes of 46 st. I am against the law as a whole and, of course, in favor of segregation between state and church. I draw attention to the reason why it is not religious, that is a political position on the level of law, and that more things are not necessarily meant to be enjoyed by some privilege. These are articles that give the greater part of the privilege I am basically in contrast with, whether it is religion, race, politics, or anything. I'm against the whole law. I'm sitting by this time because to me it's not a question of sums, it's a prince's.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u82	A respectable president. Here we are votes on how the State will live up to its laws and special agreements by the State and the National Church. The church's appeal has shown that she feels that her wishes are not here and that these contracts are not fully handled. I think it's important to make a deal, and that's why I can't vote for it. I'll be sitting by this vote, but I'll accept page 46.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u83	V.E.G. President. It is with great pleasure that I will vote for this proposal. This leads to an agreement made with the National Church and other documented religions by events in the collapse. Here is a step back to maintain the agreement made at the time of the State Church. So here it is to raise the cost to the Congregations and recordd religions, 898 k. every month for every person 16 years of age and older, and that's why I say yes and celebrate. I believe we have the next budget to take the step to the full and maintain this agreement. Of course, we Christian Democrats say yes. [[Up front.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u84	Mr. President. You don't have to say a lot about performance at the highest. Industrial and commercial minister development in tourist areas, parks and non-slighted regions. In effect, shame causes the head to feel that this is still being held up for 2016 a reduction in the marketed income laid and made in an effort to build up tourist areas in the country. 13 million of the market income fund of tourist attraction is to be pinched at the cost of a bedsider's check. In turn, the government in each year's budget has had to try to save a corner with significant funds. It would be minimal for the article to become unstealed this market - market income stock laid just to build up many tourist areas, parks, and peaceful areas. I'm against it, and I find it a little close to skimming over there 13 billion. K.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u85	A respectable president. In the bright future, this too is against us. Even if this is not large, it is quite surprising, but it describes a rounding process in the important work funded by the construction of infrastructure for tourism. I just want to remind the senators of the future that they put it on the tip of 2012, we were only fewer then, that there would be an investment project. They received good counsel, and many members of the Parliament shared their emphasis. At that time, it was agreed to go to a targeted structure on the tourism infrastructure and put a coin into it from income that was clearly available at that time. It was a violation of the money that results from government property in financial institutions. The first thing the government did was blow this thing off and, in fact, it blew off a lot of good and then has somehow been circling this project, pulling it into the sheepfolds, and so on down the streets, and now cut off from the market, even though there is a market fee to be paid for a tourist position. [[The president calls.]] It's a little weird.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u86	A respectable president. The government's trumpeting on travel services is not the only team. This is a destabilizing legal contributions to the tourism fund. The opportunity to make this growing industry contribute to the structure that is inevitable for it to succeed has been screwed up. Tourists need to be built, roads built, and the council has been determined to meet these views, making sure that the tourists can pay their own expenses for these costs. No, what does the government do? It generates a new skirt - fold job and funded by government funds at tourist attractions, projects that should be financed by the article itself. A tax system that could flow to the Land Hospital will do this instead of allowing the article itself to grow rapidly, preferably in a hurry to say, and just have to be able to do it on its own, to do it. [[The president calls.]] What an incomprehensible attitude! However, it is in line with another thing in this government that does not seem to understand that a successful commercial life is the possession of sustainable sectores that make financial gains.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u87	A respectable president. This is a technical entry that will not affect this team and what we agreed on here at 2. budget, which is the connection to the host's fee that flows into the project fund. There we find 27 million in the experience of the host price. Regarding the tourist position fund, it is amazing to listen to the language. Since 2011, when the European Commission's budget was set up, it has been distributed 2,3 billion, of which 1,700 billion have been distributed. K. In addition to the hosting fee from the start of this government. We are now going to do even better. Next year, there will be nearly 700 million available from the European Commission Fund of tourist attractions. It is quite amazing to listen to this from a former government that set nearly 300 million into this group of subjects at the time. [[The president calls.]] Rather, should we not unite in the process of travel to improve the work done so that the funds that come in here will truly be used for building up our tourism service? That's what we're going to do here. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u88	A respectable president. There's reason to rejoice at the changes we're about to complete votes about allowing employees to keep more of their income. There are many ways in which people in the country are being improved. It has been amazing to listen to a lot of things in the discussion here, where it is claimed that by improving the terms of the people, by accepting agreements, the state is giving up something they own, and by doing so they cannot use funds for other needs. This is particularly challenging in view of the fact that the present political opposition made an experiment with its economic theories during the last term, during which any taxes were raised in a series of storms, all kinds of fees between the heavens and the earth. What was the result? [[Up front.]] Did there be more money to put in the Land Hospital? Did there be more money to improve the status of poorer and older citizens? [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] No, a respectable president, you see, it didn't work out. [[Up front.]] This meant that the last government could not put as much money as this one in the Land Hospital, and it could not improve the interests of older citizens and disability as much as this one. You forget that there has to be a motivation. Illustrating the value of this government, it enables us to add in every aspect of our lives. [[The president calls.]] [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u89	V.E.G. President. It's been a while that I'm ready to vote with the extension of a permit squad to the lottery like I've been ready to do so. This is because I would have liked to see major changes made in the environment of this nation's tens of millions of industry. I make the difference between lotteries and slot machines and casinos on the other hand. The public lottery takes little of many, machines take a lot of few, and all of some do. They don't free anyone, they take many freedoms. I make the difference between the two. We're here primarily talking about the lottery. I drew attention to the fact that during the last term, I made suggestions in this council hall. I wanted to set up a lottery room. It was supposed to cost 50 million. K. every year. Half of them were to go to the fore, and they were to cure people who had become addicted to gambling. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Those were 50 million that were supposed to spread like this. Earlier this week, more of the council adopted an independent party proposal of about 65 million. K. in the management center of tourism, a new agency. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Have people heard of double - skined people? [["Yes, hear, hear.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u90	The chairman of the budget board is expected to give his speech and after, and if they do, answer them, they will be suspended at this assembly until the end of the week. 14.15 for committees.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u91	A respectable president. Here we will discuss a bill for budget money by 2015. Actually, I asked for the matter to come into question myself. The budget is between discussions. The subject was addressed there. There is no adjustment made by a greater proportion of budgetary committees. Hence, after a vote on 2nd districts, the Senate will be changed to the council. and it is suggested that the bill be approved as it stands at this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u92	Mr. President. In the final speech, why not? paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, chairman of the budget board, on 2nd. Funds went by. A senator himself stated that the budget would be called in between discussions, specifically referring to the changes made in the memory of the rest of the retrospective payment for the elderly and the desperate. I must admit that I had hoped that the more part was going to consider the matter between serious discussions, thinking that there was some movement on the subject, that people were ready to do something or something else. I'm sorry, it wasn't. Hv. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir is in the forward category, which has often had some social nerves in it and had no income tax loss in its policy, but on the contrary, a large increase. I remember. A senator himself mentioned 13 billion new projects and the improved status of the Land Hospital. I want to ask you why. A senator whether she feels that this social nerve of the advance team is shaking and shoving when we are lowering income taxes, for example, on us senators? We can spade 6 up. K. more than a month in terms of tax reductions approved earlier than older ones and microplies are being maintained in 2015 on a worse basis as the country is seen and undisputed. Got it. This is in harmony with the social emphasis of the forwarding party?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u93	A respectable president. I've never wanted to mix myself with a speech I think, so I'm going to leave out any downs or increases in the Senate market, because as everyone knows, we're going to take our salary out of the board, so it's said once and for all. But, hey. paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir, I know as well as I am that I was the chairman of the budgetary committee to welcome the guests to whom the money committee asked for. They were representatives of older citizens and desperate people who were meeting open media for the first time, at least under my control, and I believe that this is a single example in the history of the council. It was a very good meeting. It was widely covered for a period of two hours in open - air media, so everyone had access to what was interested in observing the discussion at that meeting. Now it is, if I may say so, that the 69th par. Social security law is the advice of men who accept compensation because it is a clear law in which these improvements should rise. On account of the 2016 budget, this increase was 9.4%. When a new economic forecast came out, it was clear that there was more space than anticipated, and these groups were owed to the way they stood when the budget was published. Therefore, they experienced an increase of 0.3% and now of 9.7%. A respectable president. I'd also like to say that there's an increase taken into account in those groups, so it's 9.7% that these groups get, and it's shown that it's precisely calculated.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u94	Mr. President. The open meeting was held as a requirement for the smaller section and referred to the council in this respect. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] Hv. One senator claimed that it was a remarkable step forward on the part of the greater part. But let's call it a day. I just want to remind you that social security laws are designed to protect the minimum rates of the elderly and the desperate. An example is that of doing better, which was done in the middle of a year after the 2011 collective agreements. There is nothing to say that you can't do better, the law is only to keep minimum interest. I've never claimed that most of the parts were miscalculated, I'm just saying, it's too low. It is not possible to say that the terms of older people and disability in 2015 and those with the lowest salary in 2015 are comparable because the difference between the two annual incomes in 2015 is 260 you. K. In 2016, after a 9.7% rise has been reached. A senator went over earlier, the difference will be 216 you. K. in the annual pay period because the lowest salary will increase from May 1, 2016. This process is to ensure that those with no other income, those pensioners with no other income, are kept under the minimum income in the country. Aged and micropunchers who cannot earn a living in a job market are held as the poorest group in the community. It's not exactly a social security law. That's the message we've been trying to make, and that's the account we need to make a success of here at the Senate Hall. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u95	A respectable president. It was all right. Harðardóttir Oddný was only a matter of minimum wage and compensation. I've always felt that it's unusual that the lowest salary and compensation are the same dollar number, very unusual. It costs to be at work, it costs to have children in preschool, so I describe some responsibility for the labor movement of the country because I have not fought better for the interests of those with the lowest wage. Of course, it may sting someone, and no one wants to be an invalid, and it is not the life that everyone wants. But the budget has been discussing these matters this winter and has been considering that there is an abnormally high rate of disability in this country compared to the neighboring countries. In Iceland alone, about 10% of workers are registered as dictators. I think it's very unnatural, and we've been studying what's causing it. The figures of the U.S. National Institute of Insurance tell us that there are in the range of 9◯10 billion in fraud in the reform systems. Government taxpayer has overlooked 80 billion tax frauds per year. We're talking about over 100 billion people who don't turn into the system. There's over a whole U.S. Hospital a year lying out there in the community. Rather, I think that the government and the government should join us in the greater effort to appeal to the conscience of people to turn this money over to the State, so that those who really need these benefits can have it better. [[Up front.]] It's a ◯win win-off to everyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u96	Madam President. I recommend my share of the legal committee. The majority of the Generals rejected the adjustment made to the lower portion submitted at 2nd. budgets to ensure that elderly and desperate persons receive comparable pay increases from May 1. and it was negotiated in the general market. Following the return of the bill to the budget committee, the Committee has brought in visitors from Iceland's Scaring Association, the National Association of the Older Citizens, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Economics, and has taken them over the basis of the bill related to the reformal classes of these parties. The lesser part expresses frustration by setting priorities for the more part, which clearly does not consider it a priority to secure the position of those who are to be remembered. The financial and economic systems have been found to take into account the 3% increase in pay resulting at the beginning of 2015 but are not linked to the collective labour agreements made on the market in May. Hence, they need to be raised into groups of older ones and disabilityrs. It has also been found that in the calculations, the financial and economic agencies release the pay scale that has become and thereby reduce the cost of older citizens and disability. The government's cut the 2nd. The proposal of a smaller section of the budget for pensions to rise from May 1, 2015, as previously said. The proposal was based on contracts made by the VR and the Flea Community to their negotiaters. The lowest pay will rise according to these contracts in four steps to 2018 in about 300 of yours. K. month. On May 1, 2015, the lowest wage increased to about 255 levels. K. This month and May 1st, 2016, will be about 270 of yours. K. per month. The older citizens' union aims to make other contracts in its calculation, stating that the increase from May 1 is to be back on 14.5% instead of 10.9% as suggested by the smaller portion. Even so, this low wages is much higher than those offered by the government's older ones and microplies, which, according to it, will be a pension for the people living alone in 247 of yours. K. in 2016. The daughters of a person who lives with others become about 213 you know. K. per month. The representatives of my section and the members of the committee offer a new proposal, including 6.7 billion. a donation to improve the elderly and micro-piercing of any impairment to their health. Part of that amount goes back to the state fund in the form of tax pay. Under this opinion, write along with the one listed here. The members of Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir and Brynhildur Pétursdóttir and Áda Guðrún Helgadóttir, an officer of the Committee, agree. Madam President. I'd like to add a few words. The right government now in Iceland doesn't want to raise the pensions of older citizens and invalidate at the lowest wage rate. They believe that social security benefits should only be raised annually from January 1 and not in the middle of a year, although there were agreements in the intertime period. So says a recent memo from the Ministry of Financial and Economic Affairs to Fundament Committee. They seem to feel that under law one community group is to be left and held on to something worse than those at the lowest level of the paid. Notebooks to the budget board try to make the most of the rise in GDP from next New Year's. But whatever they do with their percentages, they talk about collections of percentages and collections from year to year, and then they try to confuse everything with the growth of older citizens, this is done to confuse people. The result will always be the same: both in 2015 and in 2016, the numbers of elderly people who have no pay elsewhere will be worse than others. Social Security Acts were set to protect the interests of older citizens and disability. They were put in place for people to maintain their dignity and to live a decent life. The laws were not made to make sure that the elderly and those unable to work because of disability were the poorest people in the community. An example is from collective agreements in 2011, but the lowest salary was also increased above others. Older civilians and poor people enjoyed their numbers and received them over the middle of the year, just like the rest of them. It was just, and it was in the spirit of a law on social security. Of course, we should be on the same path now, but the right government does not seem to understand any sign of compassion or compassion. She seems to understand only the illustrated text and carries it despite the fact that there is another example. Madam President. This is the right course I had hoped the forwarding party couldn't sign. The media had at their great meeting agreed that the group would protect the interest of the elderly and the poor, but they submitted to the will of the company on the case, did not have the courage to stand by their hair, and self quote the Law text, and was apparently the head of the legal committee, which appears to be on the right side of the Independence Party. You see, if you take the numbers that are displayed in memos from the Ministry of Health for Hoministers' status between 2015 and 2016 and compared with the same rate in 2015 and 2016, there's a big difference. The annual pay of senior citizens and sensibilities or pensioners who receive home remuneration alone, which is therefore at the best position of those who do not receive any other salary, is in 2015 2,700,000 k. However, the annual wages for those on the lowest of the two species at the Reykjavík and the Continental Society of Versailles are in 2015 of 2,960,000. That's 260 you're gonna be there. K. over the year. How on earth does the government figure out that this is comparable? So, what happens at New Year's? If we look at 2016 as a result of the increases in the Ministry of Health for a person who lives alone and is doing domestic work, his annual pay will be in 2016 after an increase of 1 January, which works out all year, of 2,964,000. However, those at the lowest point at the Reykjavík and the Flea Community Society will have 3,180,000K. There is also a difference that is not in the interests of the elderly. The difference in 2016 will then be 216 you. K. That's why I'm so surprised at the discussion here. Even the highest. The social and housing minister is standing here in a pit, saying that the elderly and the desperate will be equal to the lowest wage since January 1, 2016. That's what I said. Minister. It did not indicate that May 1, 2016, the lowest wage will be 5.9%. Half the truth is being told to deceive us. It's annoying. Not only are we being deceived by senators but people are also being deceived. I'll let me say here as an old math teacher that if people recall the math they learned in 12 years of grade, they'll see that they're keeping the elderly and micro-piercing under the minimum. It's not that they're going to call someone 5,000. Seeing a year's wage makes so much difference to hundreds of thousands. When I'm at the highest. The secretary of the budget is talking about improving social security from this chair, he says, Madam President, it is necessary to keep this group under the minimum due to the need for them to go out to work. V.E.G. Economic and economic ministers are talking about the elderly and the desperate. There are certainly different positions within that group, but what we are discussing here and what the discussion has been about in financial contributions and funds is the group that has no pay elsewhere. That's the group we're talking about. Still trying to confuse the discussion by involving other groups. And what is it like, Madam President, what kind of motivation is that for an old man who has come from a labour market? What is involved in keeping his interests under the minimum wage in the land? What is that force? What is the motivation for the disability that is unable to keep it on the minimum wage? I don't understand, but I already do. The financial and economic minister was talking about the need for motivation, he drew out a group of invalids and said that they were young men who had escaped from high school and could not get up. There would have to be some incentive for them to go out to work and shake off their energy. I don't really know what he meant. It may be that some group are in such a state that, although I don't know such people, it's a success to starve them into the workplace. But the highest. The financial and economic secretary seems to do so, and he believes that it is effective to keep people below the hunger limit in progress. Almost would be opening high school for this group. But does the right government do that? No. She puts mass restrictions in high school on those who have reached 25 years of age. It'll hit each other's corners. Hv. paritaprevir In answer to this earlier day, Hauksdóttir Hauksdotttir said that it would probably be a matter of keeping microchip and elderly under the minimum wage, since living in that group would be far less expensive. For example, the elderly do not have children, and that would be a high cost. [[For example, consider: But an invalid?]] They may have children, but for some reason the chairman of a legal committee may feel that living in this group is inexpensive. [[Up front.]] I encourage all members of the council who are listening to this, and those who are watching the Cathedral, to listen to this reply by the chairman of the budget committee, and to listen to them into these Polish candidates, whom she must be introducing in her words. She is their spokesman to a financial committee, and they support and stand behind it there and cannot deny it. I'm sorry that the advance party is moving toward that course as fast as possible. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir does when it comes to the care of elderly and desperate people in the community. I'm not going to keep this any further than we have a change of suggestions, as I said before, in the smaller part of which we assume that the elderly and the poor get an increase of 10.9% from May 1 through the year. Just as the budget suggests that the elderly and the poor increase from May 1, 2016. It's a matter of justice, and I know that outside the community there's a lot of support in this. It is almost every Icelandic person who sees the injustice in looking at cold lyrics and not on the spirit of the law and what happened in collective agreements this year when the lowest wage was raised. I don't feel that it's impossible to stop this fight now and to let the right course be in control of this case, but I'm sure I'll have to accept it. But the fight is not over, for there will be a day after this day, and we in the smaller part will continue to fight for better terms and will try to beat back the extreme right course that is presented in the suggestion of the highest power. Governments, plan to keep this group of the poorest in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u97	Madam President. First thing I want to do is thank you. Harðardóttir For her talk and the detailed information about the situation that she covered in her talk, a Oddný G.. You see, I think it's extremely important that we control that intelligence. Although it may not look quite right in this struggle right now, this is the case because there are so many people who are listening to it, there are many people who take it to themselves. This is a matter of community talk. Of course, we want the public to see how unfair a policy is being run. I have to admit, I was shocked by the answer. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir at what? paritaprevir It's a Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter standing up for a break. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir said that it was unnatural for her to think that benefits and lowest wages were the same number and then went on and talked about reformation in the system. I'd like to ask you what. Because more members of Congress now have the greater part and the highest. The minister of finance put it this way: Might it be. Councilmen are snooping the water and making pensioners suspicious of themselves and thus trying to justify the lack of dressbacks to this group, thus trying to get the public to buy that it is okay?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u98	Madam President. You're right. It's against what's wrong. paritaprevir In fact, Vigdís, the daughter of Hauksdóttir, who was quite different, spoke of fraud and was so wonderful in the case of older people and micropunchers that an entire hospital could be built in a year because they were betraying so much of the money. I don't know what I heard. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir speaks of tax fraud and picks up what could be done to build a number of international hospitals for tax fraud. But she just thought it was clearly justified, or she didn't say it was justified, she just felt it was, she thought that this group should be on lower terms and maybe it could be better if he didn't cheat so much and wouldn't be cheating so much. To tell you the truth, you don't have a word about this attitude, that's just the way it is, especially when we're talking about the group that doesn't make money anywhere else. It's the discussion here. It's about those who don't make any money from anywhere else. How, on the other hand, are they going to cheat and cheat? How? That'd be nice to hear. As I told you before, it's a variety of groups, pensioners are in varying degrees, but what we've been discussing here is a group with no income from anywhere else. How important it is when we consider this discussion of which group we are speaking!
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u99	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's answer is that it is always very important for us to discuss the interest of a pensioner or just a matter of pensioner over a head to remember that these are, of course, people, and they are people who are different. We have to remember that we are talking about changes that are primarily taking place in those who are paying off the social security system only. I'd like to agree with that as a dog. A senator said that there would be nothing going on to starve people into the workforce. Of course, this is especially true for sensibilities, but there are also groups of disability that are not capable of working, and unfortunately, the system is still an option for those who can still pursue a job is difficult for them to work with income connections in the system. There's something else I'd like to ask you. A senator because we sometimes tend to talk only about one law at a time or one change at a time, as if there was no other community in which someone like us is in. What I want to ask you is why. A member of the Parliament deals with the United Nations on the rights of disabled people. I know they're not all disabled people when they're a pensioner, but they're a big group, and they say in pars. This contract: ▪ The Member States recognize the right of disabled people and their families to a satisfying way of life for them, including those with whom they live. adequate food, clothing, and adequate housing, and for the continuous improvement in life conditions, take appropriate precautions to ensure and contribute to the reality of this right without discrimination. That's what I'm talking about. A senator will agree with me that now that we're working on the induction of this contract, perhaps this is just a matter of memory?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u100	Madam President. I think it's reliable that we're going to be forgotten. But what I think is a lot of concern over all this discussion is that when the management team says it's a very good thing they're doing and it's under law and all of this, it's hard to refute this fact with the law. In the 69th. Social security legislation says that improvements in social security should be increased either according to pay development or by the index. They then calculate their pay development this way and say that it has always been done so that the pay card is taken away, but the pay slip is reduced to that number. Of course, this means that when contracts are made that are especially about minimum wage, the elderly and the desperate do not receive pay in a labour market, it does not improve their terms, nor do they enjoy the special increases in low wages. That's right. Justice is applied to the Law code set in its own time by those who wanted to protect the elderly and the poor. Their spirit is that they should protect the ideal group. Their spirit does not work out to ensure that, in times of years, this group is the worst in the community. It actually goes against the spirit of the law, and it goes against the approval of the forward party. But it is the advance group that makes this suggestion and justifies it because it is so necessary to keep this group in worse terms because he uses every opportunity to cheat and to get more money out of the reform system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u101	Madam President. Of course, the most concerned issues here have been older ones, desperate individuals, and suggestions we have offered in the government's opposition to their backward benefits. Today, it has been observed repeatedly in the wake. The members of the management team, many of whom have cried out here with sympathy for this group in the public chair, that, unfortunately, there is no money in the state's budget. Who is to believe that when the rulers themselves speak of this as the greatest kind of people ever to be told? I have a question for you. Senator. The suggestion as a man. A senator spoke for retrospective improvements to the elderly and disability at 6.5 billion. The 6.5 billion do not exist, many members of the board, as soon as they say they would like to support such a suggestion. But isn't it? A senator, that the board of directors has been accepting a proposal to change income taxes, leading to the increase of the income of 700 farts. K. The men and the others, the longest, do I not understand, that the change that was approved here today also costs about 6.5 billion each year? In other words, the change that was to reach two years is somewhere near 11How12 billion or almost the same amount that would have been needed for the elderly and the cripple this year and the next. I'd like a guess. It's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u102	Madam President. That is just right, and it is a good illustration and a good assessment. What the right one puts first is to lower taxes. The statistics during 2016 and 2017 cost exactly 11 billion, just like that. A senator talked about it. The paying of older ones and microorganisms so that their advantage is the same as that of those with the lowest wage in two years, from 2015 and 2016, about 11 billion. The right control stresss that those with 700 points. K. is administered in 2017 12 yous. K. in your pocket, six up. K. in 2015. Those with less get less. Stefánsson's Kálve has more than 700 you've got. He's got more than 850 yous. K. He's being handed 3 o'clock. Call a month as if he remembers. He's asked to pay more taxes. But this is policy. To take out the equality of the tax system, to pay more than anyone who doesn't remember. If you can rebuild the middle class for 12 of you. Call a month, I'll just say she wasn't in a lot of trouble. So it's not for that. We are not supposed to reduce income taxes on people who can well pay them while the welfare system is in trouble, we have land hospital problems, we don't think we can afford to run government radios, and we are going to keep the elderly and microplills of the whole country poor. If we can't afford this, we can't afford to reduce taxes to people who are in good standing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u103	Madam President. I find this to be an unveiling statement of the highest nature. Governments. It has been repeated here and again in this discourse that there seems to be a clear and good desire for very many members of the management team to respond to the humble wishes of the elderly and the desperate that they will receive, as did all the rest of the rest of the community, repetitive improvements. These members of the council have been led to believe this at the highest rate. Secretary of the budget and the highest. Prime Minister that there is no money in the situation. So, what do we see? On the same day, as clearly no one wants to do so. The members of the board are coming to support the government's proposal to provide 6.5 billion for the elderly and incubating them are accepting the change in tax law, on income taxes, in which they are being brought to the most important income. It costs exactly the same thing, i.e. every year, it takes about 6How7 billion to bring them a higher income than there are at the same time no money to improve the interests of the elderly and the poor. That's almost the same amount. No other conclusion can be drawn at this point than that older ones and microorganisms are being kept down so that with the other hand, those who have no need of anything are as heavy as those who are elderly and desperate. Isn't that what the D.A. line is all about? This is the main difference in politics today. Should they continue to give more money to those who have the best interests of gambling, in the form of tax doctors, or to use it to improve the interests of the elderly and the poor? The dispute at the Council has turned over for three weeks.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u104	Madam President. I thought why. A senator puts it well and exactly draws out these sharp lines. Something else I have found remarkable in this discussion is the position of the advance party. At his large meeting, the media agreed that they were going to protect the interest of the elderly and the poor. It was a campaign attempt to take special care of the Land Hospital. They didn't have their campaign records to lower the income tax or to take out the step tax. It wasn't their priority. So in this case, the candidates have become completely submerged, not enough, but, rather, a harderer policy, as shown in the case of the chairman of a financial committee and speak in a sharper way that this group should be kept under the minimum salutation. I'm surprised that I asked the chairman of a budget board today where the social network was in progress, whether it was just broken or on it, so that it could not be heard from a positive tone. The chairman of the budget board certainly made a clear and clear answer that it was her opinion, that the forwardee's spokesman for the budgetary committee, should be less than the lowest salary. Perhaps that position could be fixed if they were to stop the frauds. This is the way the candidates speak to the group.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u105	Madam President. This year's budget bill will set up 860 million in the construction of tourist facilities, i.e. ... forthefinishedfinance of tourist status. In the past few years, I have made comments to this team that grow considerably from year to year. If I recall correctly, he was about 300 million in 2013, in 2014 something about 500, and now he is 860 million. Of course, there is a very serious problem in their speeches and responsible legal committees who maintain it here and set up a very responsible look that no institutions must be left out of budgets and that the other and these important bodies of society must do so well to leave the budget they are able to do for their business and work; but at the same time, the state has an assbook on the construction of tourist stations and sludges every year of the Commission funds for travellers. It's a project that seems to have become the present administrative point completely out of control. Thus, it is with such a project that there is often a tendency among politicians and institutions to go longer than is necessary to achieve their goals. That's why the directors now have the highest authority. Governments set out in a very large number of expeditions in an effort to cover this particular project, including with the laws of nature passes that took a long time to prepare, so long that it has been severely criticized in this hall, and at last when a great law column from the highest. The industrial and commercial minister came across these subjects at that time, there was no political support for the legislation, either in more parts or in smaller parts. That song and all that work with ideas of nature prices, and I don't know what came into the sand. It was tragic to observe, especially as a result of the amount of waste involved. Then another occurred at the time that began to work on that matter. There was a revolution, so great a fiscal rise in the arrival of tourists into Iceland, that people could immediately see that they would be able to collect by traditional tax routes and pay sufficient money to survive the development of tourist facilities around the country. While there is considerable danger in this vast stream, it is a source of joy that new major sectors have developed, but they need to respond to the caution signals in the environment. Hence, it is most disappointing to see that once again the government has proved beyond the reach of this problem. The major expedition started on this issue was the Environment Minister's topic on construction for tourism, a major 12-year plan, similar to the transport program of short implementation and long-term, high project management and a highly undefined interaction with existing institutions. This plan was designed to receive the funds that were to be collected from the natural pass and to share them with projects throughout the country. The bill on infrastructure is still in the environment and transport committee and does not provide the end of that work. I have nothing against the fact that things are enjoyed in this way, i.e. Try to settle matters and create long - term schedules, but what we now see is the need to respond quickly. I mentioned that sometimes it was a tendency for institutions and politicians to go a long way toward their goals, but I thought it was possible to go a shorter route. That is why I wrote a small matter of Congress, which includes a change in rural government law and proposed to a council in the fall. Actually, I haven't got to recommend that case yet, unfortunately. It would have been that my mind would have solved these two big cases. This includes rural administration, which is most likely to be in place to assess the need for a certain structure of tourist status, to be entrusted with power, or granted the authority to determine to collect a specific fee for building a particular tourist position and to provide a stream of structure, and to collect the fee during the building. This implies that the price would be given to those who make money for tourism. Those selling trips at certain tourist locations would pay a specific price, i.e. A third party, not the owner of a country, not the tourists or the people themselves, but only those who sell the places. They would be the source of this price because they are stakeholders. I think this is a very simple and brief way to meet a problem that needs solving. I wanted to come up here and explain the case I've made. I can picture this as some kind of temporary arrangement to cope with the challenge and to prevent damage, for we must be careful to associate with the sensitive, self - destructive places that are in a sustainable manner, not to be damaged, they are safe as well as those who are making money at the facilities that supply their structure. Of course, that would eventually be the way the tourist himself would pay that price. This is one implementation of what has been called the New Zealand way of collecting tourist bills, i.e. that those who make money have some sort of contract, and they have a lot of work to do because they benefit from what everyone has. Some have said, " What about those who travel in rental cars? ' The answer is to be answered so that they already pay their contribution to society by paying through their valuable tax system. So there is no need to dwell on that. The large number of people are picking up the plans and the tourism companies and the natural process. However, it is not normal in my opinion that such remuneration will do anything but make sure that the facilities are built up, held in place, and that they include some means of working and working that follow the budget. Unfortunately, the structure that is taking place today, with a budget and a greater proportion of the council pumping out in hundreds of millions of dollars for tourism, that there is no plan for maintenance and follow-up. It's just building platforms, some of which are very ugly platforms and fences where no lobsters are going, but there are no plans for how the positions should be maintained and how to ensure continued funding and so forth. I've come up with this team a few times. To me, this is the kind of thing to come up and talk about this team in the budget is to become a Christmas tradition. After I give this talk, Christmas can happen to me. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I would also like to assume that I have written another matter related to this same seminar. It is designed to ensure that we are responsible for the company of tourists. This matter has not yet been given to me to move to the council, which is a testimony to the arrangement, unfortunately, regarding the affairs of Congress, where people simply do not get anywhere with their affairs. This means that there will be some kind of suitable environment for guides, especially those who tell people about Iceland's highlands, national parks, nationalisations and reservations, i.e. the areas of our country that are most precious to us. You see, it is not possible on the basis of the EEA Convention to distinguish between guides and other people who move within the region according to nationality. That's fine. I'm very good with that. However, you feel that there is some way to ensure that the minimal knowledge of the nature of Iceland's special status so that foreign guides here, who come along and take them either on foot, on cars or on buses through national parks, nationalities, and peace countries, will have completed some study on, for example, the effects of leaving organic waste in Icelandic nature, have the consequences of all other than the forests of southern or even northern Europe. In this country it takes a lot longer to break down, etc. Walking at certain locations in specific forms of nature in Iceland can have a far greater and greater long - term effect than taking it on other locations, e.g. correspondent in Europe Extremity also has far more serious consequences for Iceland's nature than elsewhere because nature here takes a very long time to recover. The moss that we've got here will grow for a very long time. His damage is long-lasting. I regret that I do not have an opportunity to recommend this matter and, more importantly, that the system, the council, and the government, do not handle such urgent tasks either because they get involved with it or because they are trying to solve it with some legal group when it is possible to do a much less difficult and simpler way to handle an extremely urgent task. Madam President. It's time for Christmas to happen to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u106	Madam President. I thank the senator for his speech. I was just thinking about what he was talking about last time, not being allowed to make good decisions, maybe there are many of them who are not necessarily some sort of person, but because you sometimes feel that it is accomplished on many things. Now I don't know when. A senator made a point, but at the fall council, it would have been possible to discuss an extraordinary number of cases, Senate cases, which were not allowed to come on because of the fact that the priority was alcohol in a camp that blocked everything because of the way our system is. The Senator now dedicated his speech as he does in advance, he, the tourist attractions, and the mismanagement that has been practiced by the government, as we know since it began. We discussed it very well when the budget was taken last year. I have to agree with what. A senator says that there is no plan. It has now been established or agreed that there will be another Agency to implement a plan, i.e. Tourist Control. In some way it is always being added to some overwork of the government that claims to be reducing expenses in the administration, but it's adding to it. I agree with what. Senator, I think it's very depressing especially with regard to the state areas itself that need building up. A travel minister says that the sites were not prepared to initiate construction, and that's why they left money in the fund, I think it's wrong. [[The president calls.]] I think it's very special if the state places are under there too. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u107	A respectable president. Actually, I've looked like the greatest. Industrial and commercial ministers and travel ministers are travelling to such an extent that they could not benefit from the travel community's special management center. Of course, you would have wanted the policies it contained in here in the council and have the opportunity to review it in the form of a Senate hearing and a conference discussion. It seems simply to me that this ideal period will pass before the present larger items pass over the construction of these tourist facilities. As a result, next year's budget will again be in the next year's budget for the funds they were able to build up at the tourist facilities that year. I don't want any Icelanders to be surprised that the main project period in Iceland at the time of construction, I don't talk about it when it's only about 100 or 200 yards, is over the summer. It should not surprise anyone to have plans to start such projects in the spring and in the summer months until the fall of the month to complete the project. It is as if people are always so surprised that they are not able to cover the challenges they face, and they are always as thoroughly surprised that there is a need to make plans and put them to figure out how to handle the project. I imagine it shouldn't have to take so long. Of course, this shows that there is no proper task management at the time of the current government. That's why he's got a tusks on him. It's all written on the sleazy management of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u108	Madam President. I agree that the work is smooth, and people may be a bit more focused on traveling than on the domestic structure. I know the mess, and I'm sure all of us. Pictures were shown precisely because of what happened. A senator spoke of platforms, footpaths, and the things that might be indiscriminate wherever they are, and I think of my neighborhood as in Lake Mice, where there was an excellent platform, and then controversy arose, and it was not to be kept, which is naturally said miserable. So these matters are long overdue. I feel and I agree with what. Of course, a senator is not to be surprised that the time we are doing all this work is almost always there, and especially in the highlands, in our national parks, during the short hours of summer. The senator entered another assembly case that he has not yet received regarding the appropriate conditions of guide guides. I've wondered because when a person travels abroad, it's often a national tour guide with them abroad. Now, of course, this isn't--now I don't remember being there, the job isn't legal or what it's called, and I know it as not how it's abroad, or whether it's routine or rules or something that's going to be the cause, at all times, of course not everywhere, but very widely, so the domestic tour guide is with the Icelandic we can say in our case. I'm asking why. A senator whether he knows more about it or if he has had it in mind when he was making his own case and if he thinks it over his head would be wise to do it, or if it's unnecessary, it's only enough for him to take a course, these foreign students, to study the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u109	A respectable president. I think it would be a good price for the lawyers to be a professional guide name. It is an excellent education that is behind them, and it is easy to give them the status of writing as a group for their own benefit and so forth. Of course, a large number of people serve in different ways, some as guides, and others as traveling directors. If you are concerned that you will not be able to obtain the lack of employment in these areas, it is easy to add to the traveling overseers in such cases. A certain education has been completed by guides. Of course, it is so with many of those who come here from other countries that they have done so in their own country. What I've been thinking and thinking in my bill I've put into practice with these materials includes at least they, although they've completed such an education in their own country, take a special course in the nature and ecology of Iceland because it's special. She has a special position, and she needs to be around in a very special way. This is one of the main elements of my thinking with the bill, making that deposit anyway. Although we are not ruling out other nations to do their work here, we will secure nature's interests on these topics. That's what's so basic to that bill, not that the legislatures, guide's job name, but that I think it's worth a good pay, especially if there's a lot of follow-up for guides. There are other classes, the class I belonged to before I went into politics, journalism, it's not legal. This is very positive for that class because it means that people with a wide range of backgrounds and education are doing jobs that are once again very good for the media and for the discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u110	Madam President. Hv. A senator may speak in practical terms, and often he has drawn in sharp contrasts with very strong colors. On this day, I keep in mind the sharp contrast that has developed here. We're talking extra cash in the middle of nowhere. A senator and I, or our companies, are suggesting that the elderly and desperate rise again and we contribute to 6.5 billion. But it has often been observed in recent discussions that members of the management team believe that there is no money to do so. In other words, in blues, a government fund is so easy that it doesn't have the money. But today, on this day, at least the so - called bandorm has been replaced or completed. In two places there are changes in income taxation that I think are worth a total of more than is needed to give elderly and desperate ones the benefits we are fighting for. The second change, which may be a change in the way we deal with one another, is a suggestion. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson informed in last night's discussion, costing the state budget of 3.5 billion. Let's just leave it alone. But earlier today, there was also a puzzle proposal that involves tax changes and leads to a population with, for example, 700 farstics. Plus, we're going to have the best. That's 6.5 billion. Mr. President. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether this is not the opposite, and whether it is not here, the political differences that have existed between the management team and the government side. I'd love to have some. A senator to tell me his opinion of this and the House of Congress. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u111	A respectable president. As I have said in votes and talks about votes at the council, our country may be controlled by more things that do not want to do as well with the elderly and the desperate as with other groups. You can see that, but there is no doubt about it. Of course, it is perfectly false and completely wrong that the money they make to do so does not exist. In recent years, my team and I have repeatedly pointed out that it is being put in this facility every year, I hold on to the budget this year, about 15 billion in correcting the mortgage debt of a very specific group of people in the country, 15 billion, that doesn't reach to all the people, far from here. I don't think I'm saying the wrong number when I say at least two or three of these billions are going to people who pay money, which tells you that money is being spent on nonsense. At least it would be possible to use them more justly and more reasonablely. Of course, the majority of these things have to be responsible for their political views and priorities, but they cannot claim that these funds do not exist. We're in a hurry. They've been pointed out exactly where they could have been reached. It is simply that the greater part of the country's government wants to change and to have more part in the council, had a short time to support it in the community, but it is now reduced to one end of the support and the days that it has to set priorities in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u112	Mr. President. Speak 'em up. A senator's brain. I think you're right about what you're talking about. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall's attitude toward older ones and micropunchers is probably the last nail the government has ever set in its own coffin. Hv. A senator, who was absolutely correct in his memory, wrote that his party has repeatedly pointed to the discrepancies and injustices involved in that by the so - called head correction of the forward party and the Independence Party, the richest of this society, i.e. individuals in their time paid wealth taxes, those with the highest income and most income, which yielded 2◯3 billion on a silver plate. People who had more than enough and needed more, so they were still $2,3,000 billion. It is similar today. We've heard an incredible speech. The chairman of a financial committee where she skimmed over the elderly and desperate by such particles that I would never hear such a speech at the General Assembly of the Icelanders. On the same day, it is also quite clear that the board of directors will not accept the proposal to which all its groups are united, about 6.5 billion to restore the elderly and the microchip back to May 1. On the same day, it also happens that there are not one but two changes in income taxation that both account for the highest costs and, in particular, the change due to the changing tax process, make it clear that most of those with the highest income will get the most out of it. Those with 240 points. K. and less get nothing out of it. Then comes this point and claims that they lack money to join the elderly and the desperate. [[The president calls.]] Instead, it prefers to let this money reduce taxes to those who do not need taxes, but the elderly and the desperate are the only ones left behind. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u113	A respectable president. I can say with what. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aggressor in these matters. What I did to make the subject of my speech earlier and is noteworthy and, of course, a bit of a hollow sound is to argue that the administrative body has its budget and the tactics that we present there to be associated with the government's financial affairs in a particularly responsible way. At the same time as he's now in the budgets we're discussing here, scraping off the back pocket of what was able to destroy when a tourist operation was established. Of course, it is not a work that is exemplary. The financial bill, which was very much discussed today, appeared relatively early. Then there was a long time before that discussion. A significant change proposal came from the minister who presented the case and then offered suggestions from a greater portion of the committee. So it may be only natural that the matter had quite a talk here. However, there is a lack of evidence that we are getting into the stitches of many of the things behind us, such as the construction of tourist facilities, which I made up for publicity. It is worth considering that you do not have any other opportunities to discuss the entire group of subjects that burns on you, except in the discussion of budgets.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u114	Madam President. Now we are coming to the final talk of this fundraiser, and much changed between conversation, from the time the bill was submitted to and until it went to the 2nd issue. and then the bill changed little between discussions right now. When we took this for the last time, I did well, and most of all, I criticized because the bill is about to turn to what is unexpected. We had identified some factors that are by no means unexpected that involve not only the road repairs that were set for the summer but also the tourist market budget, and so on. But there are large numbers underneath which are really unacceptable when it comes to making budgets that you have to get into this. It may also be wondered, in view of what the government has been doing, that in the Ministry's last November, there is evidence of grafting in the economy and underlying inflation pressure on the collective agreements made, and it is suggested to correct the state's spending. That has not been the case. But what I've been more concerned about is the income lines we discussed earlier, both for the current years and for the years ahead. The government is about to go to income tax losses, which will contribute to the concern described by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, economic expansion, and underlying inflation pressure. So I don't think it's wise. I examined the Declaration of Independence Party's Conspiracy, where the policy we've been considering is crystal crystalline, which is called upon by a tremendous recession of the state's budget. The future vision for 2025 is most simply different from that of the land we live in today's country, i.e. a welfare community where there has been a measure of good peace for both, i.e. Free of business and much tax, but a lot of cohesion. According to the conclusion, a policy should be made that the government's expenses will not exceed 35% of national production in 2015. If we look at OECD numbers, for example. From Denmark, Sweden, France, and Germany, between 2000 and 22013, none of their countries have run an economy where the government expenditures are so low, i.e. 35%. The greatest swing has been in Denmark, with a ratio of at least 59% and lowest in 2007 at 49.6%. France and Sweden are in places similar to Germans have never missed more than 43% of national production. Even with the government's expenditures, most of the northern countries have still been considerably above 35%. The Independence Party also wants to aim for income taxation and to drop to 25% in the coming years. The goal, therefore, is to achieve by 2025 and the recovery of the tax system is off the board, since there is likely to be a flat tax issue. In Britain and the United States, 25% is close to the percentage that a person with medium income pays, so it can be said that this national meeting of the Independence Party once again confirmed that the party does not bow to the Norwegian model we have spoken to. In the United States, there are seven steps, so we can wonder whether the independent party is far beyond the group's right, and now it is often enough, both there and in Britain. But this was just a reflection from the political bitch who appeared on the bill and appeared earlier today in the bandormins of the so-called. Then you start to wonder about the various issues discussed here. In our memory, we have a suggestion for priorities in terms of government matters that obviously are not the same as the government groups have already spoken, and there is a difference of opinion about that. I may not have to go very deep into it. I don't think it's a bad idea for these financial provisions because of the overwhelming amount of money that comes inside him from the anticipated expenses. We've talked about it, many of us, that it's really bad, and maybe it's been a certain harmonia that people feel it shouldn't be this way. This, however, does not indicate a good plan, especially when it comes to making money that this will not work out. Then you have the impression that ideas cannot be used because they come from a smaller section at the General Assembly. The trade bill - I believe they were very underrated on the budget bill, it's coming in high numbers. I've criticized that our bank, the Lands Bank, returns 18 billion more in profit than the bill expected. We have reached the end of a year, and it is quite clear what the bank's position is and what it could pay, and that it was not mined any closer than it was done. Although it's a good thing to be careful with income plans and realistic spending, neither of them will succeed, either here on the budget or in my opinion of the budget. When we talk about them, we get a lot of stuff that wasn't in the original bill. I also criticized that the effects of collective agreements were only part of the bill, the budget, shown here in the fall. However, those contracts were finished in August. When the state's making a deal, how much money they've earned! It just can't be. And that they cannot be added to the bill, at least much more accurate than here - there is a lot of money on the bill - there is a lack of planned planning. The Treaty Committee knows what the cost of the collective agreement is, or I'll give it to myself. That's one of the highest. Secretary of finance has talked a lot about how much these collective contracts cost. This should have been possible to publish, but not to take all this more and less, for there was so much that was taken at 2nd. Then it's moving funds between investments and businesses, that's what it was done here. It's not normal to do that, and it's the first time I've seen it, at least in terms of the financial products I've been through and money supplies. The children's reforms and compensations - we've discussed them extensively, and we've had every reason to discuss them with an equation. This is part of what I went on to conclude with the Independence Party, but the leading financial committee and its chairman have talked on the same line about that, instead of cutting down the city's status on these coins, 800 million are dropped. It would have been interesting to see some stage photos, what it was like to distribute this capital, how it had spread, and how it had been done otherwise. We've been talking about changing the policy of payment this year to deliver this funding, because we don't think that it is undisputably justified in taking it back. Action at tourist locations - I went over it only in opposition to what I did. paritaprevir Róbert Marshallur. It is awkward that we should face the fact that industrial and tourism minister says that money could not be distributed from the fund because people were not ready to start the projects, instead of saying just what it is true that people didn't even know about this budget, that they were assigned late. On the one hand, the rules are very rigid about the protests society has discussed with us on a financial committee, and the minister was well aware of. For example, little rural society, despite a great stream of tourists, could not produce it. I can take the Mey Lake Zone, for example. Snoopers are a small rural society, and visitors may get theirs, but those who are going to have to do the work, i.e. Companys, they may not necessarily have the resources to pay back what is needed. Of course, we will see that such rules are to be changed, that rural society does not have to be so much put out. But as for state places, there's something awkward about this. They are also part of this, did not begin their implementation at the specified time, or something was not completed, according to the minister. That's very strange to me. We've talked about the income, we've gone over the cost of fishing, and we've lost money. We've mentioned the value tax, which was first dropped and explained by an amazingly special company, that, after economic recession, business that was a problem. It was as if it were thought to be okay and to be spoken of as a black operation. A respectable president. Still, I'm going to take the last few minutes to say, " We just need to do it better. ' We have to stop the program, they're not supposed to allow themselves to present such bad plans. We can do so with good motivation. But I'm worried that the bill for the budget we're working here will be in some other way. I also worry that people have overfaith in public finance, their new bill, that they solve so much extraordinary numbers of problems that I don't think they will. It will not take full effect until the next election period. I'm going to go to the end to say that when we look at the core, business, emissions, and entrances into the state fund, once the Bank has been taken out and placed in stock markets, we have a very delicate underlying business. The benefits we make here are almost all about our making a lot of money. So it would also be crazy to sell the Lands Bank, although we may have more banks, if we are going to do so, we will lose but will not heal. A respectable president. I'm going to make this work for the first time in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u115	A respectable president. I'm going to discuss the adjustment in my share again in the hope that it will be accepted this time. The reason we do this is that in these days when the government boasts that there has never been a better outcome and enough money is in the box, there is no greater improvement for the most treatable agreements that have been made in other community groups. Yes, this is certainly a high amount of money, but there are in the large context of 5◯7 billion, as is the case with the retrospective payment of this year and then the adjustment of the budget for the next year, perhaps not a high amount if we consider this in context. This is similar to what is being left behind by lowering the tax on the intermediate class. This is a fraction of the amount that went on, e.g. ... intheextremend,ifyou're gone. So we want to say that if people are going to set priorities correctly, they'll correct those terms. I just want to talk about what was going on earlier after the speaker of my money commission, okay? paritaprevir A Harðardóttir of Oddný, where the discussion somehow went into fraud and so on, on the streets. I consider this to be two separate cases, one of which we decide to make compensations for the pensioner and the desperate, and we must agree that there must be some amount of money that people can survive. Then it's just another matter that some people are cheating out of the system. Of course, it needs to be addressed, but we can't make the compensation a little because some people may be cheating. I like it when I hear it whether it's tax fraud or fraud or whatever it is, and of course we shouldn't feel it. But we're not talking about it here. I encourage the government to bring it up. We have, among other things, an adjustment in the budget, which is involved in increasing tax control and making more money in the box. I think we all agree on that. No doubt there are some who are cheating on compensations, and they just go on and there's nothing to deal with with. But let us assume that the people in need are not betraying them. All you have to do is get compensation that'll cover them for alimony. I don't want to ask it together. I don't think it's fair. Old age pensioners can't sell out any pensions. They are 67 years old; it is quite clear when they start taking their pensions. So when we go to these psalms, I feel that the discussion is mistaken. Certainly, there is no marvelous change in the treasure of the Kingdom. What we see today is a profit from banks that yield to state funds and is, in fact, a mere income, we can say. But there's a table for a table. We'll probably vote on this tomorrow, and we'll try again to get general members to accept this proposal of ours and at least agree to a change in the budget bill that turns on an increase in 2016. I find priorities very strange when we reduce income tax on even the upper middle class, and I also find that there are tens of billions of dollars in debt. Homes that have real estate and, of course, owe something to them, some million from taxpayers in the form of debts, and that is wrong priorities while we cannot protect those who do so badly in society. The goal must be to eliminate poverty. We all need to do so in unity.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u116	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir's spirit before the speech. In fact, I would also like to use this opportunity to thank the smaller parts of my life. The budget committee for reassigning a 3rd bill. That as with all other groups in the general labour market, including us here, it is also possible for pensioners and disability to be restored to May 1. I thought why. A senator comes on a very important item when she said that she felt that there was a special need for reform in the system and that the debate on reform and improvement should not be questioned. I wholeheartedly agree with the senator on this, and I must say that I was, in effect, shocked. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir and Chairman of Who. The legal committee during the discussion earlier today. In effect, a senator assembled in the discussion on one hand, referring to a pensioner and a public tax fraud in the community, thus extending the figure to tens of billions and calling the figure 100 billion. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: Does she feel that this presentation is reasonable by reason of reason? Chairman of the budget board?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u117	A respectable president. I cut it by this. I didn't think it was fair. I'm also impressed by the changes we've made in terms of an additional $3 billion for the next year that we've been criticized for the greater part, that money is now not available, but the word says there are 100 billion out there that we can collect from taxes every year. Then I say, we just go collect this money, not on me. Another factor that matters to me is that the number of micropigs is increasing, and that's a concern. It says something about us as a community how many people have disability because of mental health problems, it's something we're incredibly asleep in. I feel like we're challenging our responsibility to handle this problem, to help these people. We can't even, I'm sorry about the language, get the fuck out of the way to submerge psychological services. We're turning the money in the wrong direction, I think in many ways in the health system, and this is something a health committee must consider, because this is a big problem. No one would want to end his disability because of his mental health problems. I'm not saying that all of this can be prevented, but we must give ourselves an early intervention, even if only with children and adolescents, we can perform a good service, we can help people so that they can at least help them. Do some part - time work or develop such a good grip on one's life. I think it's a lot of concern. There's young men and women. That's not good. I kind of expect a welfare committee to discuss these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u118	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator for this answer. I wholeheartedly agree with her that no one wants to go into disability. I think we can certainly do much better in our community as a means of creating resources and simply creating a society in which all can participate even if they have some degree of impairment, whether they are classified as mental health or musculoskeletal problems or some kind of congenital impairment. As a community, we can put our arms around it and make it possible for all individuals to live a decent, decent life, of course. Resources that enable everyone to share in society's cost, in fact, only change of mind and may not cost money. That is something we all need to participate in. But it also costs money from the treasure of the Kingdom, which, of course, we need to earn it. I think it was just right in this discussion that money exists. More of it. In fact, members of Congress were giving up a substantial amount of money during a vote today by reducing their taxes to the richest. We need all of this to be taken into context. We were discussing tax fraud here, and I think I've seen quite a discrepancy in a lawsuit on the other hand. The chairman of the budget board and then the drive. The vice president of the Theocratic Ministry Committee of Þór Þórðarson, who has discussed in the discussion that all the changes made in the smaller sums of funds have been funded because they should collect all of this in an improved tax watch. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Can the senator shed more light on this?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u119	Mr. President. I would take it exactly after this, because there wasn't any harmony there, and I wondered if we shouldn't have expected just 10 billion in additional income due to an improvement in IRS, yes, or 100, which is actually not practical. [[Up front.]] I'd like to mention that, because of what. A senator came into part-time, and it would be important to open the labour market, perhaps open the door to giving everyone a chance, then I think that it actually fell to some extent on the induction of a labour market decree, it reminds me that it is called, which has been in the Government Constitution that I think from the beginning, and I have asked the highest degree. Social Minister on every beach, and it's always on the way. I think it's very important to implement this directive in this respect. Then I think we also need the courage to look at the improvement system. It's very complicated. It's been criticized by the micro-creature League, and we're always putting a puzzle on top of the system. At some point, we might want to make a complete review of it and change it. I think it's too complicated. [[How about a burger?]] Civil pay is an idea that I think is a little exciting, I'll admit it. But I think we could only jump up, make the system to some extent simpler and more efficient, also improve the service to those who attend compensation, e.g. what right people have, that they don't always feel like they're somehow trying to have something of the state. There's a lot of stuff in there. There are many things we can talk about and will discuss next year in this group of subjects.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u120	Mr. President. This debate today and the last days have largely been about whether the government would agree to support the government's proposal to provide retrospective improvements to the elderly and the desperate. Hv. paritaprevir During the day, Karl Garðarsson gave an excellent talk on the many issues of the State's budget, including some. that older ones are a lowly group who find it difficult to get their own affairs or to be heard. You're absolutely right. Senator. That is exactly why it is easy to make the elderly and desperate for the leftover size. Every government must guard against the temptation to go along with it in order to equal the books. Some have succeeded, some not. I feel that this government has done so very badly. Of course, I am convinced that there are plenty of men and women within the board who mean it when they say that they want to improve the interests of this group, in effect want to do their part to equalize their differences to various others. But the facts today are very different. It is very important to recognize some basic facts regarding this stroke. Right away. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson says that this is a small group that has difficulty setting up their rivers, at least it is important that he has a word of caution at the General Assembly of the Icelanders. I'm saying for myself now that we're talking about budgets and I'm going to take over 3. I feel that here at the National Parliament, they should take a good kitchen day about the state of these cases, what the government has done, and what it hasn't done. What I've really disliked from the board of directors in this discussion is that they come here, beat their breasts, and brag about having done something special for the elderly and the desperate. At the same time, these whales use them. Councilmen are in charge of kicking in the former government, the Government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, who took over a bankrupt state fund that poured out 217 billion at one time when the government's income stock failed. Then you come out like a dog. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson and others say, "Well, what did you do? What would have happened? paritaprevir Is that what Karl Garðarsson did? It's not equal. Yet, I would like to guess if I were to be honest. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson, just like a dog. paritaprevir Hermaphs, Níelsson's son, both in their speeches, stated that the government had spent the worst of its time by not moving in on recoverys. But in order for everything to be done, the chairman of the budgetary committee spoke and uttered large parentheses and did not state correctly when it claimed otherwise. That's another story. There are four facts that have to be understood about the situation of disability and what this government has done and has not done to them. First of all, elderly people who are in striped pieces are forced to survive 172 you. K. a month after taxes. I'm going to ask my good coworker why. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson, could he? If he answers yes, it would be the first time I doubted his whole - souled words. This is the first fact. Second of all. Right away. According to members of the administration board, they improved the status of the elderly and the disability of the elderly. During that time, in almost three years, the ideal elderly and disability have improved, which results in the loss of ten of you. When taxes have been taken into account, call for a month. That's the fact. It's happening in good school that the head of the bank says it's a bluesherm. This must be kept in mind. Third, please. Of the 10 you. The government's three - year - old call to improve the quality of disability has taken less than four of you. Call back with the food tax that went into effect at the end of the year. In effect, the situation is the only thing highest. A government has done for the elderly and the poor is that it has added 6 of you. Call after taxes are taken into account. The fourth thing that matters in this discussion is the fact that the elderly and the desperate are the only group in the whole of Iceland that will not be compensated. Our suggestion is that the state's budget will pay 6.5 billion so that the elderly and the desperate will be restored to May 1. Is that fair or unreasonable? What do members of the council receive? What do ministers get? These pay increases are retrospective, not even reaching May 1 but further back, to March 1. These are the four facts that remain in this discussion. A man would have intended to make a statement by the Future Party before the last election, agreed at a national meeting that emphasized their will in politics, where love and compassion for the elderly and disability are evicted with great generosity, more remains. I might have an understanding of the situation if the current government were to. The prime minister of Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, would have accepted the black hole that the former government had begun. She received a government fund that had been as economic growth in the country since mid - 2010 as it has been for five years. By the time she accepted them, the state's post had improved year by year since 2008. What do we see has happened now? The State's stocks have been weakened in such a way that, in the blues, seeding of good things is hardly bringing leftovers to some extent, less than 10 billion. What is the scope? The income is 700 billion. These do not increase yearly, i.e. The growth of the state funds has not been increasing. Then, when you look at a government budget to 2019 and look at it as the greater part of the legal committee has proposed, it is arranged that the debt of state funds is not expected to go down during this period. What, then, is being done with the growing income of the state fund? Yes, there are many expenses. I'm not going to tire of being a member of the management team by talking here about the management center of tourism, the State's superintendent, or a embassy in Strasbourg, all new luxury institutions that are being created, increasing the fat law around the state. I'm going to discuss what's happened on this day. Besides the bill here, we also have a bill for various measures related to the budget bill, the so-called bandorm. I was amazed when I sat here with the conversation yesterday and listened to a inquiry directed to the question. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson, son of Thor, was concerned about the cost of a certain tax operation in which a partner and a married couple are being treated. It was found to cost $3.3 billion. As a result, it is especially the highest income that gains the benefits of a tax reduction of 3.5 billion. This is half of what is needed to make a suggestion that elderly and desperate persons be restored to May 1. So, what happened this morning? It was also noted in the discussions that income taxes are being changed in another way, that is, repealing the step distinction established by the last government. How much does it cost a trust fund? 6.5 billion. Where do they go for money? Who are those who enjoy their tax doctors? Hv. paritaprevir The daughter of Oddný G. Harðardóttir explained this in his earlier speech today. It was practical to listen to what they recorded. It turns out that those with 700 points. K. When the change is fully achieved after two years, you will have 12 levels of income per month. K. More. Those with 240 points. K., those at the lowest of the ears get nothing. Mr. Faithful. What the hell's going on here? The government is being weakened by changing the tax system to make the largest earners, while the least earners can get nothing, not a dollar. Then let's see how much this costs. Yes, together these two changes cost 10 billion dollars. That's the military cost. The tax system change, to remove the step shift, should take two years, costing 11◯12 billion. What would it cost a government fund to pay back the raise due to collective agreements this year and then pay the same compensation next year for collective contracts? That's the same amount, 11◯12 billion. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on. The members of the board are crying over here in a speech chair, as I am sure of it. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson would do the following, saying: There is no money, we would like to help the elderly and the poor, but there is no money in the state's budget. At the same time that some of them have said it, this team is accepting taxes that especially benefit those with the highest income, which cost about the same amount of money that we could have spent in support of the elderly and the microp poor, making sure that they were not leftovers, and that they enjoyed the same amount of money as everyone else in our community, and that they could also receive benefits that are repetitive. It doesn't matter what senators like. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson or Brynjar Níelsson's son say, it's true that this year the elderly and the poor will not receive a crown inbacks. And so will they indeed come, these fine gentlemen, saying, The first government did nothing better than this. That's absolutely right, but it was in some other situation. The money was bankrupt. There was a stop to 217 billion holes. But what did that government do anyway? Of course she went through all the community and cut down where she could. But how did she deal with the improvement system? Certainly it is true that because of employment failure and because of pensions, it was changed to the best values it had been for 2007. But what that government did was that she kept her stand for the worst, and it did so by reforming those who had neither pension nor employment income, no matter what the chairman of a legal committee claims. It is the fact, as has been noted in the case of honest members of the board of directors. What happened in 2011? Then there were collective contracts in the middle of the year. The daughters of the elderly and the poor increased to the same degree as wages increased in those collective agreements. One was the agreement, 51 of you. K. in the middle of the year. What did the government do? Yes, the elderly and the desperate were left alone, so that they could be crystal clear. Mr. President. In order to cram at the end, this government remains, first of all, that all she has done is raise the interest of the elderly and the poor in the greatest future by 10 of you. Call a month. Second, the food tax that arrived at the end of the previous year reduces the amount to 6 you. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. And third, it remains that today, under a government with the best good we've seen in recent times, the elderly and the desperate live on the 172s. K. in a month when taxes have been taken into account. Fourth, the fact that there is no one to deny that this year there is no quarterly retraced elevations in the ideals and benefits of the elderly and the desperate. That's what we've been arguing about here for days and weeks. I can at least for my hat in what I think most likely is my last discussion of these matters said I'm proud of the government stand-in-the-place situation. We're the advice of the elderly and the desperate. They have nowhere else to go. They're supposed to come here. Sadly, the greater part of the government is made today to take the way for a store to be desired.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u121	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson for his speech. There are two things in it that I would like to mention, first of all, the interest of elderly and desperate, and secondly, an alleged embassy to open in Strasbourg, France. Let's start with the elderly and the micropunchers in my previous answer. It has been observed many times here that what we're offering and I've put this puzzle to work many times, that the wages of the elderly and the desperate are raising to 300 of you. K. in about a year and a half from now on. It is the real profit that the elderly need. It is wrong to say that the last government has protected the elderly and the desperate. One of her first works was to cut down certain groups of elderly and desperate people. We're in a hurry. That's what they say. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's sis: We had to cut down everywhere. What was the priority of a former government? She put money in the EU application, it was all right. Why did she not put her priorities first and leave the elderly and desperate ones to the last? No, she did not, on July 1, 2009, she cut down to these groups. It was one of her first jobs, not her last. Let's be absolutely clear about that. To say that the elderly don't get anything back, they're just actin'. They receive 9.7% of this year and received 3% by the end of the year. Part of this increase now at the New Year's season is actually a retrospective increase. We're in a hurry. They get a raise. Such claims, both of the work of the last government and of what the present government is doing, are false and below all caves.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u122	Mr. President. I put it in my talk to two young people. The members of the administration force have been honest enough to tell the truth about the former government. One of them was a boy. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson, who nodded in recognition of what he said, and the other had a problem. paritaprevir Brunes the Brynjar of Níelsson. However, after they had held their judgment talks that the last government had made elderly and desperate for some particular victim, they said what was heard to me. A senator must be pulling back now, i.e. that we did not move the favors of the worst. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] They were the ones who did not have income or pension. That's what we did. That's what I call protecting the worst. That's my understanding of it. On the other hand, it is absolutely accurate that among those actions, although it was not our first operation, immediately after the minority government completed its process and the new majority government undertook, the limitations of the sector and the pension income of those in the reform system were changing. How was this done? They were taken from 38% and moved up to 45%. That was the best it had ever been. It was a change that Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir promoted in the 2007 government and had never been diminished in the history of the system, so it is totally clear. Right away. A senator asks about the priorities, that's how she was. We were guarding the worst. That's why, yeah. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson, that the government that was now taking over a society that was the most dependent, that I think, is still the result of their actions. I believe that due to the current operation it may change over the next 6◯18 months. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u123	A respectable president. In itself, it is quite right as a matter of course. A senator said that they protected those who had a low profile. I agree with that, that's exactly right, and I've said it in this chair. [[Up front.]] This does not change their neglect of the ideals of large groups of elderly and desperate people.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u124	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u125	We're in a hurry. The other thing I mentioned earlier is why. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson has repeatedly appeared here talking about the opening of a new embassy in France. He spoke earlier about a luxury facility in Strasbourg. What luxury organization is that? They're talking about opening one office at the Council of Europe in Strasbourg. There is an office. We'll pay for it. She's ready. There's a desk there. There's a computer there. It was talking about having one man there. Is this the luxury office and the embassy to open in France? Why don't we just handle it right? A senator outside the former foreign minister of Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u126	Mr. President. Back then, we had no embassy in Strasbourg. Then it happened that the head of the forwarding party was a short while president of the European Council, who is a grappling between member nations, and it was considered appropriate on the part of Iceland to set up a special embassy there with ambassadors. That's a definition of the embassy. It was a time of considerable opposition and protests, believed that it was a delicacy and luxury. In any case, you can argue about it. However, it cannot be disputed that during the last term, the embassy was closed. There was an ambassador, and he was sent away. It was saved in this way, and this was done in conjunction with the WHO budget. That's priorities. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson. [[Up front.]] It was thought that work could be done with the Council of Europe and its offices in Strasbourg. That was the sending of a person from the council in Paris once a week for two days at a time. It was very smooth, so I'll tell it myself. The fine senators who sometimes stay in Strasbourg had no worse service on the part of the embassy. Now that's changed. What do you think? The senators of the Future Party for the development of the projection and for the increase of the number of couriers? There is a new ambassador, just as when the development community will be restored in the highest form. Minister of State moved through here this morning, and there will be a chance of making three new ambassadors. This is the board of directors changing the system, so soon there will be four new ambassadors.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u127	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson for his speech. I particularly thank him for reviewing it here that while Iceland was still working out of the economic crisis, the left administration of pensioners paid back active benefits. There is an example, there is, and this is true since economic conditions were quite different from what they are today. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for this. I want to thank you too. A senator for the political context he put things in his speech, i.e. The relationship between earning money through taxes, and how taxes are made, and so that there is money in a government fund to work on. Sometimes I feel like people want to forget that there's a relationship between them; it compares with how income is made and whether there is money and what it is used for. I feel like we're having a really bad example of how it's done in the wrong way. As a result, they make the most of it, and they make little of it. This discussion has made clear in some cases. Congress officials find it unnatural that pension workers have the same value as those with the lowest salary. I just want to ask you what. A member of the council whether this is appropriate in this context and whether he feels that the elderly or those living in some type of impairment are systematically dominated in the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u128	Mr. President. It is important that we emphasize that the priorities of the last government were very clear. The people lived there under very narrow and difficult circumstances, and that is true, and we are not trying to compromise our whole school system, our health system, our social security system, all of which had to be cut down in order to get the money together. They succeeded in seeing that when the government returned, a new government came to live in an equalized area, at least a prime equation, so that there is now a complete realization. The answer is: No, I don't think it's fair. Hv. A senator is likely here to refer to a recommendation that fell from the lips of earlier today. The chairman of the budget board, which for some strange reason always disappears from the hall when I think my speeches. But let us be grateful for that speech. It completely backs up the fragility and criticism that the members of the Independence Party have specifically stated on the pay proposals of the government opposition to these budgets. Hv. Councilmen, including some whiskers. paritaprevir Guðla Viðr Þórðarson, came here and laughed at our proposal to add more money to the IRS and the tax returns. But then comes the chairman of a legal committee and informs us that there are 80 billion in the community involved in tax fraud. It is true to recall that when I was serving on a budget committee, there was a meeting with a tax investigator and told us that it was his experience that for every cent put in a military tax agent, ten would be paid back. Do you think that 80 billion tax frauds can be reduced unless you spend some amount of money on it? Then the members of Congress come and laugh at it. But, hey. paritaprevir In any case, Vigdís Hauksdóttir stressed the need.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u129	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I agree that although I did not sit here at a council during my last term, I noticed that the priorities of that government were very clear. Of course it was that all groups experienced a failure after a crash, but the figures I've seen show that the failure of the two groups was the least. It shows me in black that my priorities were correct. Of course, it's bad that earners of money are affected, of course, but the times were extraordinary. In this discussion about the lack of the minimum wage in pensioners, this discussion has, unfortunately, shown that it is not just a problem. The chairman of the budget board, Vigdís Hauksdóttir, who has made that statement, also happened at the highest level. Financial and economic ministers. I'm sorry. That scared me pretty bad. But the highest. In fact, a minister brought it into the discussion that there were young men in particular who were entering the improvement system - 870 men under 30 years of age. So he made an entire group, which counts about 45 Thous. a man, in some way suspicious. I'd like to ask you what. Senator: Is he willing to agree that this is killing the debate by making a pensioner suspicious, thereby getting an justification that their election is not improved because it is a group of cheats? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u130	Mr. President. I believe in the good in man, and I don't want anyone to be so evil that they are aware of taking out some special group, in this case young men, and making them more suspicious than others; I don't think that it was meant that way. But there may have been numbers in front of them, and these, of course, are the remains of the discussion we had here on the conditions bill. The other is so clear that there are political powers that feel the need for a particular competition, that I am determined to say, between those in the social security system and those in the labour market, that it includes the motivation to try to break up and go to the labour market. That's the way it's been said. It's my opinion because I know something about these matters, like any man who's my age, I know these cases from my environment. Men are not to play with it; I know not that I should be in the midst of the world, to have it well. Have a nice man at 172 yous. K. after a month's tax? No, it's not good. I think that every single person, at least the most who had a choice, would like that. Others feel this way. I don't know what it is. paritaprevir Hauksdóttir Hauksdottir spoke of six to eight billion credit frauds, that's a pretty high figure. I'm convinced that as in all systems, there's always something about people playing between them, but fuck it, there's six to eight billion. Finally, about priorities. The Sigurðardóttir's government, so that my priorities are clear, shut down six embassys and emissaries, and protected their election in the way that I have described before.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u131	V.E.G. President. When a bill to cover budgets for 2016, there is a 3rd Environment. I'm going to take advantage of the 15 minutes I can talk about it in my first talk and review the adjustments made by the minority groups this time. It's very simple. It is simply about the restoration of older ones and poorer ones, as is the case with all the rest of the population in the country. I'm saying retrospective increases, you might say, are not retrospective increases in the labour market, since pay was negotiated from a particular time period, which is the case. Hv. The chairman of the budget board, Vigdís Hauksdóttir, said this morning in quite an unprecedented speech that the 69th year of public insurance law is a dresser's adviser and a vote of the groups who accept compensation. She spoke of a clear provision in that law on how these improvements should rise. Then we talked. A senator for the sake of budgeting expected a 9.4% increase, but when new economic forecasts had come out, it became clear that there was more space, as she called it in the speech, and an increase of 9.7% was expected. In other words, a respectable president, this means that in terms of a new economic project, pension insurance was increased by 0.3 percent. What would that be? That's 300 bucks, I say, write. This government is always seen as a result of having in its opening months in the summer of 2013 brought back some impairments since the last term. It is crystal clear that since then, not those who have been remembered but those who could be in the labour market or had capital pay, really the elderly who had the best interests of it. At that time, the pay of public life insurance had increased by six o'clock. K. in the time of the present government until January 1 this year. I've always said they went up 4 Yous. K. But that's not true, the amount specified is 3,496. which increased at the beginning of this year. In the time of our present government to the day of our discussion, these improvements have increased by 9,496. That's all. May I remind you, worthy president, that January 1st, when this $3496 bar. came to the elderly and poor - it is no wonder that you start laughing at the figure - food taxes were raised at the same time under government regulations, and some other things have gone up. That's the way we get out 172 yous. K. today. What we're trying to criticize is that we didn't agree to do what we did in the summer of 2011 when there was a bargain in the country. At that time an 8% increase was immediately taken in the middle of the summer plus 51You. K. one payment. Then, in reality, we first showed a color after our troubles and the bloody cutdown all over society. We always said that as soon as we were older, we returned it. That's what's the basis for our speech now. Why on earth does the government, the Polish government, go to war with the elderly and desperate, the smallest of our brothers and sisters, by refusing to go back - ups? The whole budget bill and the budget is putting in money to share with the state stocks so that they can pay their employees back-ups. A respectable president. 9.7% on top of almost 172 you. K. you're right about 17 of you. K. for tax. What amount are we discussing? We're talking about 1,912 you're talking about. K. by tax that would have been paid from May 1, seven months of the year, about 778. K. I don't quite remember the number that the Council of Cathedral raised before a minister, but I think the amount was considerably higher. After January 1st. the amount will be 186 you. K. That's all. It tells itself, nobody lives on it. For these matters, these great disputes exist between the members of the governments, the members of the councils, and us, who are in the lesser part, determined to do so. What is the state funds set this year when the bank has finally counted the right payment? The budget bill is expected to contain 22 billion, but I predict it, and I've said it before. I'm going to allow me to keep this in here during the last days of the council, that as we look at the financial bills for this year, the pay will be more than 35 billion. There's been a lot of talk about how much this costs. That's about 10% of the budget I've been talking about. This is why people speak of 6 billion as the expense of a government fund. This is not true because government funds receive taxes from these payments, so the net is only about four billion dollars. The number of elderly and invalids is about 47 thousand, so it's quite compatible. A respectable president. As I told you before about this $3,500. an increase at the beginning of this year was different from the food tax. There has been a large increase in rents, and a large number of sufferers are in rented rooms. Understandably, people with such stigmas cannot afford to buy houses, let alone fire them, etc. We can just imagine when those 186 you're talking about. K. magazines are taken out and paid rent and things that everyone has to pay - there won't be much left. A respectable president. I met an invalid at an arduous drink last night at a funeral where he described his terms. It had a maximum of 2530. K. after the beginning of the month to survive. For example, the person needed medicines that for some reason did not fall under the payment system of medicines we have discussed, nine vital drugs. These invalids had to be paid about 10 grand. K. for them. Do we think this is an acceptable, respectable president? Sadly, the discussion we have discussed here has not reached the administrative point. For example, the 3rd issue is now under way. Not many people in the hall are making arrangements to handle this matter or to explain why the increases were not repetitious. It is a mystery to me why the government, with this great rest of this year's budget, has gone on this mission against the elderly and the microchip and has denied them the backward increases we're talking about and the whole issue is about. That's amazing. A respectable president. The Advertisement of the Corporate Community is very striking. She's very good, too. Thank you for putting this out as clearly as in paper that I think yesterday. I saw the ad in the News magazine, but I understand it appeared in more magazines. According to Gallup's poll, 95.4% of Icelanders believe that pensioners should receive as much or as a higher dollar count increase in a manure as in the lowest salary in recent labour contracts. I'm not surprised because I think it's a fact that the Icelanders are mostly equal. Icelanders are saying that by permission of the president, they would like to be the smallest of their brothers and sisters who have the worst rise: Let's get this straight, and then they'll call it a short list for the government of our government, who's counting on social security pensions. ▪ We can get up early and work full - time. For decades, many of us became cripples by working low - paying jobs. Every dollar we earn can cause the loss of a pension bill. We're paying taxes on the pension. The increase that was at the beginning of this year, 3,496 k. By taxes, and after an increase of 1 January 2016, their income will be about 186 you. K. a month after taxes. ▪ Why does no one live a decent life, or do we think it, a respectable president? Counts 'em out. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson that someone can survive 186 Yous K. a month after taxes? We should stop talking about the amount of money that it is for taxes because neither members of the body nor older ones nor those who are desperate will survive the amount of tax paid by the government. It's all about paybacks. Hv. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson, who is in the hall, should also consider these points. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson. That's what I expect all of us to agree with. Why have the government officials not beaten on the table in their panels, saying: "The good ministers, our leaders, are not fond of the fact that the elderly and the desperate are not given back - ups like everyone else in society? We've got to get this out of here. Fortunately, we Icelanders well understand that there is a table for food. A respectable president. Finally, I'm going to discuss some of the words that fell into the General Assembly Hall this morning and now go through the networks at a speed of light, i.e. discuss why. The chairman of the budget board, Vigdís Hauksdóttir, who said a word, with the permission of the president: ▪ I have always felt that I feel that the lowest wages and compensations are the same dollar number, very unusual. It costs to be at work, it costs to have children in preschool, so I describe some responsibility for the labor movement of the country because I have not fought better for the least of the earners. It is also said that up to 10% of workers are registered in Iceland. Honorable President, this is all nonsense. It is very strange that such information and numbers should be presented. If this is the view that has resolved. Generals when they force their diplomats, I allow myself to claim that they are forced, to submit our proposals here that we have a roll call for these retrospective promotions--I have said here many words about their shame in this matter, but I'm not going to do it now, I'm not going to reiterate it once again. I've found it very bad to be here on a talk chair and to talk about things wrong in these matters and in short terms members of the state and other things I've said in this regard. I'm so completely offended in this matter. As a result, these great and intense disputes have been held in the General Assembly at 2 and 3rd. budgets, and then because of 2016's budget. The government groups are going to continue because in 2016 most employees in this country will receive a 5.5% raise. The budget bill for the next year is not expected to raise the elderly and the desperate at the same time. That's why I said yesterday in my vote that the law could not be interpreted in this way, and the government couldn't manipulate things like this. In fact, in this case the government could fight not to sign a contract until January 2 of each year because it would end up 12 months inexorably for the elderly and the micro-piercing, to interpret the 69th grade. Social security song in a way I think it's wrong. There's nothing to say that this must always be for years. On the other hand, it would be extremely bad for a government fund, especially for the current government manager, if the terms and terms were currently negotiated because the elevations would be compared with their interpretation 12 days later. Honorable President, this is logical support that cannot be agreed. [[The president calls.]] They're taking advantage of some bullshit. [[The president calls.]] They have rejected a lack of understanding and have been trapped in this paradox.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u132	Mr. President. I thank the senator for his talk and can agree most of the time with him. It is worth saving, as he mentioned, the gold grains that fly here or anything but the words that are expected to be golden, and people not quite ready to forget when it comes to wondering who will take care of the country's government next, but hopefully the changes will be as soon as possible. The senator did much to talk about, and I'm going to stay with less - fortunate ones and be remembered. I think a little about what is presented in the financial support of the Ministry, where they say that, in part of the increase of 2015, it is accelerated to January 1st, and all increase due to January 1 is accelerated to 1st, the pensioners get more in their pockets than average employees paid under the same pay number without pay. Of course, there is a 3% increase at the beginning of this year before treaties were made. Even if they were taken out, in my opinion it is presumptuous to make this statement, because we all know that it is not that people in the lowest are more likely to live. I'd like to point out one thing, because there's always been talk about all kinds of pensions, compensations, and gods who know what. If, for example, an invalid receives a pension... a pension payment will cut the person's head off. I ask: Is it reasonable to the senator that the object of the law is taken back through the pension fund? I'm asking the senator, because I don't know it, does he think we can change it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u133	V.E.G. President. In answer to this question, we can refer to the years of work that humans have worked on the insurance system. Written reports and committees are at an all - time rate, but they do not have much to do in this regard. If I just understood the senator's pension, it's so that if they pay him out, the pensions will be limited. All we need to do is go into the insurance company calculator and play with it a little bit. It's a great plan and a calculator, and it's very nice to see how it all goes. For example, if you don't have a pension fund, and you type a certain amount and see that the amount paid is exactly the same, but it just decreases what the government pays for the government. Like what? A senator said that if they're there, pension pay will be impaired. Let us bear in mind that there are a great number of disability workers who have no pensions and who have nothing to play there. Of course, that's the people we're fighting for the most. So after a few years or a decade, I don't worry too much about how the pension system has evolved. It's a big, powerful thing for us, even though you're not happy with everything inside. Of course, it will play much more on our younger payments and we are about the age we are today than we are talking about. Still, we always need to think about those who have no pension money, since their child - care money won't cut them off. But since the fall of this year, hasn't the top of the board been messing with something in the child's pension?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u134	Mr. President. I agree with the senator. Like I said, it's those who get pension money, but there are a lot of people who don't get it. We're talking about the lowest earner. The prime minister said that it would take good sense to manage the country's administration, and according to a survey that the government itself uses to calculate, this group of men, which we in the opposition situation, have been trying to reassign this perspective and to refute what has been presented. We were discussing a number of budgets earlier today, but before I talk about it, I'm going to say that the first thing we have to do is to cut a dollar in this system. For drugs and aid tools, wouldn't the senator want to see the valuable tax taken off or at least the lower step on these drugs and tools? It was done with the booze.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u135	V.E.G. President. Of course, it is always a question of how to handle things in the art system and fix things that are sometimes thought to be being done to improve the effectiveness of favours. I think the main thing is to deal well with those who need, for example, a lot of drugs and such. It's possible to do through the system, as we actually do today, though it may need a lot to fix, according to the example I took earlier. Because of what? A senator quoted at the highest. One prime minister who said that the country's government needed reason - yes, it's always needed it. But I'm going to allow myself to claim, more distinguished President, that the benefits we are entering the Icelandic community and we see in the budget and the funds are not merely due to the work and policy of this government. Let us just remember that the global oil market prices have declined by 70% in no long time, that is a low inflation, a large number of tourists, a peak in the fishing road. [[The president calls.]] Now, there are conditions that we said in the last government that would come and that should be returned to the elderly and the desperate. [[The president calls.]] We are.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u136	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I want to ask you why. A senator sees if he is not concerned about what he is doing. Congress officials disagree when they talk about the good standing of older ones and the poor and when compared with a lower salary, they will be able to bring it all together on January 1, 2016. Hv. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson said he was back. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson earlier during the discussion was that with the rise of 9.7%, he had returned. But the total pay of those paid a pension in 2015 at a 3% increase that came on January 1, 2015, is 2,700 million. K. That's 260 you. K. less than one year's pay for the lowest remuneration, increasing about 260 you. K. in 2015. Then, in 2016, those who receive pension will rise by 9.7% on January 1, and these terms will last out the year. The total year will be 2,964 million. A.k., but with the lowest wage the annual salary will be $3.180 million. K. with an increase on May 1, 2016. That's 216 you're gonna be there. K. However, the management forces claim that recovery will be on January 1 and therefore it is acceptable to agree with the programme set up. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u137	V.E.G. President. Yeah, that's right. That's right. paritaprevir This morning's Oddný new G Harðardóttir was very comfortable with these numbers. She asks me if I feel that governments are mistaken for the law and the rise in the general market. I have to say yes to that. I don't understand how this kind of misunderstanding can develop. I think it's more of an obsession and that these two groups just don't care about the elderly and the desperate. I just don't think it's a good idea that they're hanging out on that discussion after a minute to the 69th par. Social security songs say that this should only raise annual improvements, as if my argument is always right. There is nothing in the law that says it should only be done at the end of the year. There's nothing against doing it in the middle of the year. I'm not going to say for a moment that the last government has broken the law in the summer of 2011 when we raised all these improvements by 8% and 51 of you. K. the one-dollar bill. We weren't breaking the law with that. Not at all. We just handled it right away. As evidence of this, I take back the examples of when contracts are made. Then it is absolutely impossible to contribute. I just have to say, a respectable president, in response to this. Besides, I didn't understand the answer before. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson said that they had a hindback like that. A senator said. I'm just saying again: There's no need to add that. A senator said this morning, that the difference between the lowest salary and the payment of social security will be the difference. A senator is on the subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u138	Mr. President. I hope that the debate at the council's office on these matters has led to the crisis. The members of the Projection Party and the Independence Party that it is not quite right for the numbers to be closed back and forth, and that is not correct when we consider the dollar. Another claim by the chairman of a budgetary committee is that the proportion of urban population in Iceland is 10%, and this is higher than in other parts of the North countries. That's wrong. [[Up front.]] The percentage of urban population in the United States is 10% while it is 113/414% elsewhere in the North countries. In fact, it is the lowest here, but it has been increasing in that group, and of course we should examine and respond with support. [[The president calls.]] I want to ask you why. A senator whether he is also concerned that the chairman of the legal committee is still being misdirected in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u139	V.E.G. President. I think so. I have the hope that it will happen to the council members what it is and they will see the light here at a vote tomorrow at 2nd. Money and accept the fact that they have been exposed to bad habits, that some have made a decision that is hard to deal with, and that they agree to a retrospective rise in disability and the elderly. I don't believe it until I see it, expecting a call to be called tomorrow, that they're going to continue this. I think all the discussions here have made a great difference. Hv. A senator spoke about what was going on this morning. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, that up to 10% of the population in this country were registered dictators. I just have to admit that I haven't had a chance to look at this problem and I don't have any data on it, but I say for the least part that I was so surprised at this discussion this morning. I was thinking for a moment that if these are the views presented to the council members and they haven't done better research, private senators, I understand why the government has come to this fuafen. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u140	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I'd like to point it out. A senator may be trying to deal with some polls, how they stand exactly what's most popular in that and that time, at that very moment. They've been boasting that the previous government has spared them the worst, and I'm not gonna argue for it, no doubt right. But what is this government doing? Isn't that the worst part being spared? On January 1, those who live alone, with less than 2 of you, will now be the worst. K. a higher salary or compensation, or what we call it, than a full-time worker at the lowest salary. So I'm at least concerned that the worst-time benefits came with the lowest remuneration. I can say that there's not much money, I'll take that stroke with a what. A senator raising the lowest salary. As for the development of the next few years, the lowest pay will be held at 300 you. K. In 2018 and benefits will follow them, so I ask why. A senator: Is this not an excellent goal? [[The president calls.]] Today, the improvement will be higher in the previous part of the year than in the second half of the year.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u141	V.E.G. President. I don't care about making any difference in the United States, advance and polls, but I don't. A senator asks me what this government is doing, and then it's expected in the affairs of the elderly and desperate. She's done it. She rose from her first days to her last year's pay for the elderly and the desperate about 6 of you. K. by tax. She raised them last year's pay by 3,496. In a month, they all returned in the form of an increase in worth tax on food and other items that happened to them. Now it's going to be the highest. Governments to betray the elderly and poorer for retrospective raises by 113/412 you have. K. by tax last May 1st and puts it in now, so that at the hands of the government there will be minimum improvement in the social security of 186 levels. K. at the beginning of the next year. Who can survive that, a respectable president? I'm not gonna ask you what. A senator if he can, because I know the answer. We can't. That's why I say, this is one of the greatest shames in this country what we do in this suit and that's our job to change it. As I have said, it is a complete mystery to me, why a senator such as Páll Jóhann Paul Pálsson does not set aside this fair point that the retrospective increase will occur this year. I agree with what. A senator and I have heard the same in a few candidates for the benefits that were agreed on to 300 yous. K. The minimum of May 1, 2018, what? The senators have promised it here. I haven't heard many independents talk about it, but I know exactly what I can talk about with the next budget at what is happening. Councilmen if this government shall rule them, which, of course, I hope not. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u142	A respectable president. No, no one knows, but as I said before, we're not playing for polls at the moment, that's the judgment of voters who will determine who will be in charge of 2018. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he can agree with me that it is more favourable for a longer time to compensate for this retrospective increase so that we raise the percentage from what was in the bill, from 9.4% to 9.7%, so instead of switching the increase to two and have a lower percentage of the years higher, so at some point, this rebound increase has been weighed up. [[The president calls.]] Can't we agree that in the long run, it's more beneficial to have more percentages this year than to keep it lower?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u143	V.E.G. President. Now I would have liked to have more time to counter-than-one minutes to review this economics. It's simply about that of the elderly and the micropunchers, there are some 1,912 of you. K. from seven months a year's tax, less than 80 ounces. K. by tax. That is what the elderly and the desperate should have received for a single payment at this time, paid out. It's about what it's like. A senator talks about, treats the budget and increases from a bill of 9.4% to 9.7% for economics, I just have to ask, like earlier, how much is that amount? That's 300 bucks. How much for a soda and a hot dog today? I don't know, but I think it costs more. This is now the alms offering that the government believes they are bringing in a discussion of the budget. The increase there, which is based on some other economic forecast, but the government had a total of 300 bucks. The bottom line is this: The government groups have refused to pay retrospective payments to these groups like others, and they are being treated about 80 yous. K. ... thisday. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u144	V.E.G. President. I'd like to begin my talk at the 3rd. about a bill for financial support for 2015 to say that I was disappointed here today when it came to the fact that a large part of the problem was not modified. The budget board. In fact, I had allowed myself to be so optimistic that I hoped that a greater portion of the committee would come to reconsider and add money so that the elderly and the microchip could be restored by 2015. That's exactly what I'm going to do with my talk period in the 3rd. to discuss the interest of the elderly and the poor. The majority of the Generals rejected the proposal of the lower portion submitted to 2 Peter 3: 1. O.V., to ensure that the poor and the elderly receive comparable rates of pay from May 1. and had been negotiated with employees in the general labour market. In a member of the committee's list, I'm sure it's my share of what I'm talking about. The legal committee reported that the Department of Economics and Economic Affairs was calculated to have a 3% raise in pay at the start of 2015, but this increase is not related to the collective labour agreements made in the general labour market, as stated in the Committee of the smaller section, by permission of the President: It is therefore missing this rise in the older ones'reform classes and disability groups. It has also been shown that in the calculation of the financial and economic sectors that have become available, a decrease in the cost of older citizens and disability has been observed. This view, or attitude, has been observed in some members of the greater part, as well as in the highest. The financial and financial secretary of this discussion is that compensation and lowest salary should not be the same number. I'd like to discuss it from a few sides. The first thing I want to say is that minimum wage is far too low. They need to go up. It's a special project I believe we as a whole society have to attack. On the other hand, I disagree with that the terms of those in pensions either because they have some degree of disability that leads to people's being unable to participate in the labour market or because they cannot be in the labour market because of age - I simply believe that I don't want to live in a society where systematicly believe that these groups should be the lowest place in society. There is, of course, the cost of operating a welfare system. This is what I've been discussing in my talks about both the budget and the previous talks on the budget. This was clearly evident this morning when a vote for the so - called bandor was paid, where a greater proportion of the council agreed to a tax reduction that is the most tax paying for high-payers. These changes in the tax system are especially due to those with the lowest resources available. This change in the majority of the council is reducing the income that the state's budget has been about 11 billion. In fact, it is said that this will cause the income to drop by 11 billion in the next two years. That is exactly what would cost us to finance the adjustment of my plans. The budget board. There, people can only slay and appreciate. So which is more reasonable, then, is that the money in the state is subsiding and can do less, including, less. for this group, or do they skip these changes in the tax system and therefore contribute to improving the interests of the worst in the community? This is another aspect of the case I'd like to discuss here. Another man I find important is that I can't see better than trying to check the water or to kill in some way the conversation about people who are cheating or cheating. First, he did the highest. The financial and economic minister that he spoke of when he spoke of young men who were in pensions. In this context, some young men have been referred to as ones who have slipped out of school and who do not find themselves in existence and who make benefits. First, I'd like to say that, of course, we need a system that can react to the fact that a group of people can't find a place, so to speak, in the community. One way we do this is by having access to high school, something that has been impaired in this government's time by setting a rating so that high school is no longer open to those 25 years of age and older. It would be one step to take this change back in order to increase the prospects of these young men and even of all young people who for some reason have escaped from studies and have not found a complete number in society. In this example, the highest was mentioned. Minister of particular young men. So I went into the government's website and looked it up. The men less than 30 years of age who are in pensions are 870. On the other hand, all the pensioners in this country, if I count right, are over 45 thousand. Thus, there is a large number of people being misled by not wanting to raise their income with the impression that there may be some young men taking advantage of the system by going into pensions. I think it's really unfair to put the matter into this context. The cases have been put in a rather strange context of the discussion here. That's why I have to enter a saying of what he is. paritaprevir In the past, Vigdís Hauksdóttir said she had always felt that her lowest salary and compensation were the same capital. She pointed out that it was necessary to have a job. This is true, but it also takes to live with some type of impairment. The cost of all kinds is greater than that of adults or younger people in pensioners. We can name medications and aids, for example, the cost of both medications and tools. Then, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go. paritaprevir Hauksdóttir Hauksdotttir sees, who is also the president of the night. Of course, tax fraud was to be grafted out by the legislatures and so managed to pull up the amount into the dreary figures that ran at tens of billions and simply mentioned that it could be that more than 100 billion did not fit into the system. It's quite clear that it's not because of counterfeit pensioners that these 100 billion people are not turning into the system. I think that's pretty clear. I think it's incredibly unfair to put things in this context. I wondered, " Is it trying to kill things over because the mood in society is that pensioners should get the same compensation as other social groups, and because it's the mood in society all picked up to check the water and make these groups suspicious? ' I'm just hoping the public doesn't fall for those cheap Trixes. I'm running out of time. I have often spoken from this talk session that whenever we are discussing matters, we need to think about them in context. This is especially true when it comes to disabled people. I realize that all disabled people are not pensioners, but the desperate are truly part of a pensioner's carer, and they suffer from impairment, many of which lead to disability. That's why I'd like to remind you to the highest. Governments are building a UN Convention on the Rights of Disappointment In this article, we will consider one article on a satisfying standard of living. When I'm finished, I'd like to be less than the top. The government and the Senate learn that you cannot do anything in one law and then do anything else with another law. [[The president calls.]] There must be some context of this. Finally, because my time is over: Thank you, my dear things. The budget, for bringing back your new proposal. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u145	Mr. President. As happened last night. Another suggestion is to try to get the correction of the ideal elderly and the desperate by presenting this adjustment at 3rd. about a bill for budget money before 2015. We who support this adjustment have this discussion all over us, the 2nd and I. ... nowby 3. Um., argue that it is truly justified and fair that groups of people are not left behind one more trip and that they get the same compensation this year as other wage workers in the country. I thought it was good at what I did. paritaprevir In 2015, the daughter of a Oddný Harðardóttir took note of the lowest salary and the compensation in comparison. Your daughters are 260 you. K. below the annual minimum salary level of 2015. It's as simple as that. The lowest pay for this year is 2.7 million. K. and 260 you. K. lacks the same basic benefits for disability and older citizens. During the next year, it will still be much more, even though governments are constantly trying to convince us that it is not. It is getting a bit tiresome to follow this discussion and to participate in it because there is some controversy about what is true in those topics, what are the facts, how people are being misled in this discussion. Next year, the lowest pay will be 3,180 million. K. but it's 216 you're missing. K. That's what we're talking about. That's what we're talking about. That's what we're talking about. That's what we're talking about. That's what we're talking about. The discussion has also concerned that the poor have become too many in Iceland, that's just a problem. Therefore, people must go down and stop them from growing. I can't say anything at all. The chairman of the budget board, who speaks this way and, in fact, also the highest. Secretary of finance and others within the administration force. It seems to me that there is a little discussion about talking in this way. Stefán Ólafsson has made a summary of this ratio in Iceland relative to the rest of the North countries. Please refer to the 2013 Year issue of this magazine by permission of the president, Stefán Ólafsson says in his summary: ▪ Iceland is 2013 with the lowest percentage of people in their working years, or about 10%, while the Norwegian nations have 11% to 14%. The vast majority of these working - age pensioners have microenergy pensions, while others are in the rehabilitation of pensions, disability grants, or have gone early in pension. In other words, Iceland has a relatively fewer microenergy pensioners than the rest of the North countries, overall. I like to get this review because these facts are presented. Then there's this discussion that's not just tied to a whale. Vigdís Hauksdóttir, chairman of the budget, says that there is something unnatural about the benefit of the elderly and the poorer people over the lowest wage. From the moment she began to have some sense in her mind, she was fighting for the improved benefits of those who are in the lowest wage, and so hopefully she will continue for the rest of her life. But it's just not quite like that. There'll always be some pay bags on the bottom. That's just the way it is. Happily, though, they are not always the same people who are bound to that tax. They're moving. But those who are older and who enjoy pensions and those who have become desperate have virtually no chance of moving anywhere to earn more money and are stuck on these benefits for the rest of their lives. Of course, there are, fortunately, some poor or even old - age pensioners who have some means of earning money, and of course there are in these groups of people who are more prosperous financially and who have money in bills and all of that. We know all about that. But the part that can't and doesn't have the chance or the income, doesn't own property, and lives on this shallow pension, it's stuck in it, and it's gonna be the rest of it. I feel like there's something that needs to be viewed with fairness. It's not like that. Of course, you should continue to fight for the highest tox, they're just a disgrace, as we all know, although the goal has been to raise to 300 yards. K. and in 2018 the lowest salary will be there. But to be with these groups all the time is so small, I think. I think it's so sad that the people who have more than enough to hold on to the little things they have between their hands, that they don't have to go up against each other in comparison, and it's so important that there may be some poor people who have something better than those who are at the lowest tox at one time. This will help me to stress that, fortunately, individuals have the potential to grow up in the hatches, to enjoy pay, to pursue education, and to obtain a better one, as we know in those areas. But it is also true that much concern is common in youth. That's what worries me, and there are others. We are to do all we can to support the young ones who, whether because of mental illness or physical damage, will become desperate. Part of this group has the potential for support and can even get back to the workforce. Some have no chance of doing so. What a contrast, of course, to a group of people! There's not some same mark between them. The fact that students from 25 years of age and older have been locked up in high school also dislikes them. Young people who have fallen out of school for some reason and then have the opportunity to go back and finish their studies and to obtain opportunities of opportunity, this is made much more difficult by closing the graduate schools before the age of 25. So every action in the government is so directed by negative signals against that group, I think. There must be an increase in general support for this group that has the potential for employment participation. It must be a more positive attitude, both professional and governmental. There must also be financial gains of disability to go back into the job and be involved, even if that is only part of it, by the government reducing the breakdown of disability money because of their own occupational resources. The flexibility needed for those with impaired work capacity must also be in place. This is true in most cases today, unfortunately, although there are exceptions. In our government situation, though I myself report, the past few weeks have been tiresome enough to speak to the view that it is right, normal, and probably that older citizens and poor people will receive minimum these retrospective increases in accordance with the other remunerations of the country. Although we have talked to the deaf ears of the government, we do not see in just one minute of that discussion. It is also so good to feel that in society there are the same views as there are at a church meeting at the government stand. More than 90% of the country's population want to get the ideal pensioners to be the same as other employees and to receive retrospective increases from May 1 this year. That is why it is surprising that the government decides to take over and do nothing about it, that the will of the people and the government is like this. And, of course, the elderly and the desperate have already proved in their language that they deserve this correction. When a man is boasting about your 10. K. After three years of taxation, which the ideals for these groups have improved, it is now easy to do so. If you recall having those elevations back in time, you would be talking about 80 of you. K. after taxes, as I understand. People will remember that. In this panoramic month, where people try to make their own people happy and take some day off for Christmas, it is sad in the big context of the fact that they are being reduced to taxes, as shown here in the bill on the basis of budgeting. Once again, taxes continue to be reduced, and that is all that humans are setting priorities for the more prosperous, increasing insurrections in the land at the expense of less fortunate ones, whether in the groups of the elderly or in the disability of the elderly. It's just, as they say, the right-hand policy is running around the back and that's how it's done. We must act and try to put these governments away as soon as possible before they have destroyed more of the welfare system.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u146	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the speech and the battle in these last few days. I can't think of anything like the suggestions being offered on coming from the government on the basis of 3rd. The budget of over a billion dollars for the Land Hospital is indeed linked to our return to the government, at least to the requests made by the hospital manager. I also hope that there will be a meeting of viewpoints on the state radio. But does the senator not agree that it may be most important, of the factors we have been keeping the government in, that the elderly and the desperate will then receive a back - up rise that they will be able to support in the changes in our budget? That there is this important question about the equality of the people in the country, that older ones and the poor get raise from the same time as others? But they say, I rejoice, if this is so, that a billion were reached in the land hospital. It will now take less time to care for the important assignments there. But has the senator believed that the government will likewise respond to the views we have had here regarding the elderly and the desperate and the backward rises that should, of course, have been on this financial bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u147	Mr. President. Of course, you should never give up hope. As they say, a billion are coming for a long time. So he's in port. He would not have come to speak from this platform of government opposition. It is good to hear that a person has that conscience in an effort to improve his or her activity. That's what's gonna happen. Of course, you need to be optimistic about the fact that, now that this proposal is available, to meet the elderly and desperate ones, that even though they did not leave that group on one more trip and look at the facts available, older ones and microplirts are not being improved comparable to those of other groups, even though they spoke in such a way from this discourse of government. This 9.7% will not do so, resulting in an increase on January 1 next year. The mean increase in transplant patients in this year is 14.1%, I've seen somewhere. But it's just been calculated back and forth, and there's a lot of missing that these groups are getting comparable, no matter what anybody says. I just can't believe they're going to let a little combination of things get in the way of this forever when they're done with the calculus. We've got math here at the councilroom, okay? paritaprevir It's a new Harðardóttir daughter, and I trust her calculations. It is lacking that the elderly and the micromanagement are comparable to the lowest wage in the world's population at some 260 levels. K. This year.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u148	A respectable president. This is now a matter, a bill for government financial legislation, passed through 3rd. I'm going to thank the budget and members of the Committee, the Committee members, and all the guests who have arranged the budget for the past two and a half years that we've been working this bill for both assistance, assistance and association. In effect, taking this assignment was a milestone and a challenge, for it has been 20 years since the work is now being carried out. Then there was a multi-organized committee appointed by both a council committee and a financial committee, but now a financial committee was given that commission. What a pleasure that has been! The bill has made major changes in the work of the Committee since its introduction. Now it's here and it's a real pleasure to know how much agreement is about the case, because, as I said here at some point, this is some kind of government constitution of public funds. This is a big issue about how public funds will be made for the future, and there are many new words here. It can be said that all members of the budget are in agreement with this matter, despite the exception of exceptional issues. Overall, representatives of all classes are on this matter. The main change I believe is that there will now be a wide, forward vision set for four years and a plan for four years to take over the affairs of the population. Then the institutions themselves will see what they have to play for a long time, for as shown in the budget now and I have seen and felt, there is always some uncertainty about what the institutions feel they belong to in the state. In the autumn, when institutions claim to be more in charge of the state, the budget becomes more revereable. But hopefully this bill will solve the problem of the present budget. I'm not going to extend the discussion because it's past at night. Again, I would like to thank the representatives of all classes for their extraordinary work on a budget board and I would like to know that one member of the council has an audience on a budget board. It is Porta's party, where the pyramids came in on this job and offered suggestions that we took into account. So every member of Congress has its focus on this bill. As I mentioned in my introduction, we concluded our decision, and when we have an agreement on such a matter, we all have to give in to something. It is a pleasure to see that her work was the way she was, free of politics, and only done on professional grounds. Hv. A legal committee went to Sweden to study the matter, and that was also true. The budget from the last term and is to draw attention to the fact that the work on the bill began during the last term, showing that the case is far beyond the Polish sea. So four groups have reached the government case, along with the new categories, the bright future, and the Pirata. I'm celebrating this bill, but I'm not going to extend the discussion, hoping that this case will be fully supported tomorrow when it's elected.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u149	Mr. President. Let me just say a few words. Of course, this matter has been discussed, this is the third council involved in the bill, and it is now going against votes tomorrow. As mentioned in the previous talk, at the time of the highest, public financial bill began working on it in November 2011. Just a few minutes ago, a president sitting on the platform. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, when he was a minister of finance, ordered groups of work to get started on this job. Work continued, until it was the highest. Bjarni Benediktsson's financial and economic minister gave the bill two months ago. Therefore, it should be a good transpolitic base under the bill. We are setting ourselves up in the council and in the implementation of rules of law, and in order to that end, it is necessary to have a parapolitical solidarity. We're talking about taking a policy discussion up to the spring convention, where policy groups are submitted over time, and then a plan for the year ahead. With a plagion proposal, key figures will be approved in the spring, which will be provided as a basis for a financial bill that will appear in the fall. I think this is bringing power to the council. We'll have more to say about the policy, and at the same time, there will be a time when a large language policy case can be established in one paragraph of a budget bill, as has been done lately. Instead, we will take the discussion, and it will increase the democracy and rule of the Generals in my opinion. When they were working on a bill on government finance, the Ministers who came to this point, which are of great importance in speaking, of course, consulted with the rural communities where financial matters are in the bill, and then the budgetary committee was regularly informed about the work done, and the larger meetings of the local rulers were also under way. There is only one article that did not have all this scheme of consultations, and that is the article that the Conspiracy voted against and is not a parapolitical agreement, unfortunately. So it is very likely that this article will soon be changed, and it will just be done. But I hope that the other areas of solidarity are going to stand and stay because there is a great improvement. I'm sure this work will take place and we'll have to break up tradition, etc., but hopefully we'll have the strength to make these improvements. 7. which the United States voted against the budget of financial rules, which says in the first place: a total of over five years should always be positive and annual always be below 2.5% of domestic product. Second, the total debt, apart from pension bonds and business debt and other sources of funds and bank accounts, is less than 30% of the gross domestic product. Third, if the 2-count ratio is greater than 30%, the excess ratio should be reduced over a period of at least 3 years over a period of at least 5% (1/20) per year They argue about this and say: In a year's trip when everything's all right, it's no problem to have such a rule and probably then to have mood swings, and then we're living in a very swinging economy, and then such rules can potentially harm the public and grant the state funds enough to cope with mood swings with temporary tilting, and even problems that arise in a lack of willingness to work on a bank fund in such situations. Fortunately, since 1990 in Iceland there has been a general agreement to try to have a baseless government fund. In the fall of 2008, we suffered a tremendous shock, but it was successful to close the budget in just four years, and then we began returning a lean - down set of state funds. Of course, this is very important, but circumstances may arise so that the angle can be used to ease the swing. If we want to keep the taxes relatively stable and the expenses of the government's financial funds and services, then it may be possible that the hook could only swing so that in a particular situation, such a rule could be harmful. The union stressed the change to 10th par. which will catch up in the event of a massive catastrophe and the realization that the government's policy on finance will not be able to follow. A change in this article was adopted, so under certain circumstances, the rule can be removed for three years and then reinitiating a five - year plan. I'm not gonna have this any further. I'm glad the bill is here and this place, so I can't wait to work for it. Of course, I am a little disgruntled and disappointed that we did not achieve a parapolitic stand over all the articles, but it is mostly one article that causes some disagreement in all of these over 60 articles, so it may well be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u150	Madam President. I'm not going to extend the discussion here today, but I feel that it is necessary to come up a little bit and express the satisfaction that this case is about to be cleared up. I agree with it. paritaprevir In his speech, Oddný Harðardóttir spoke. She did all right. I find it especially important to maintain that this will be a complex and difficult task, and it needs endurance. The work on the budget may not give rise to the hope that all of this will go smoothly, just to say. In itself, there is nothing to stop professional and good practice right now, but it's like people are waiting for these laws, and then we're really going to do well; this discipline we're always calling for, being able to plan ahead, seeing things ahead, and things like that just fall out of the sky. This sometimes reminds me of the discussion that the collapse should have woke us up out of sleep as if it were something unexpected, but we're the nation that caused the collapse, and we're still the same people that we can all stand here in a new collapse after some year. It really needs a change of attitude, and I think that's what this means. It takes a change of attitude in politics. I think officials are generally pleased with this, but I don't know if the tactics we see sometimes that I'm not happy with are from the government, perhaps to some extent, but I think they're mostly in politics. For example, we're discussing budgets, expected tonight or tomorrow, for 2016. We're a week ahead of the work schedule, and there's a change in plans. Of course, that's not the way we want it. I think we still need to try to enter this positive assignment. I think everyone will agree on it. We may also need to be aware that there will be certain adjustments in the course of time. It's not perfect just the way it is. But we spent a lot of work on it, it was a lot of fun, and I'm grateful to have been involved in this assignment, even though it meant more stress on the budget, enough is now frequent and frequent. But it was worth it. There's a bright future on the committee party of the greater part, and we don't have a disagreement about 7th paragraph. I don't see anything wrong with it, but as I say, if there's any problems with these laws, I feel we have to be open to change. Most important, when these laws go into effect, we focus on fulfilling them, improving our work. In this context, we can look to our uncle in Sweden, but we also need to look at ourselves and do this as human beings, to be said. And I think we should be quite able to do that. I also feel happy that there is an increase in budgetary planning for this project. The introduction to these laws will cost me, and I don't think that we should be sorry for that money. We'll save for the future, I think. I'll admit that I've still not completely envisioned what sort of votes and things like that are going on here at the council because there's a big change in that. It's the Congress's administration to deal with this, maybe I shouldn't worry about it. I'm well pleased with this case, at least Two governments have had it on their own. There's a good partnership on a budget committee, and I want to thank you for that, and I'm glad it's going to be legal by Christmas.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u151	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying that. The chairman of the Committee spoke of everyone agreeing with this bill. That's not exactly true. I have a special opinion, and I have expressed some doubts and have made clear to them in a special form of adjustment that was made. But there are a lot of good things in the bill, and as we have noted, it has gone through many financial ministers and is that a large number of themes, though there are certain things that we in the left green feel have changed so much that we do not consider ourselves to be on a common committee party. I'm going to start by reviewing just what comes to the baseline financial and financial agendas. We wish to enter the bill where the government can always depend on all its commitments to meet all the conditions of sustainable development. In the definition of sustainability, economic factors are only considered when looking to an international definition, including The United Nations, then social and environmental factors are also seen. We would have liked to see the bill adjusted to that accepted international definition and suggested that, i.e. that the bill would provide economic, social, and environmental tools for the sustainable development of public funds. By integrating these three factors when making decisions, we refer at the same time to the fact that each generation does not survive at the expense of another generation. 7. has been the main bite bone and has come in at the present highest level. Financial and economic ministers. The objective, in our view, is very narrow, and not just in our opinion; there are others who are concerned about it. There's both the A-part of state funds and the A-part of rural society and the rural communities aren't doing well enough right now, and it's already worrying that it's too narrow. It is said that the total balance of the five-year period should be positive and annual tails must be less than 2.5% of national product and that the overall debt of non-important pensional commitments and business debt should be cut down on the remainder of funds and bank accounts is less than 30% of GDP. If, according to my previous reading, the debt ratio is higher than this 30%, the excess portion should be reduced on average over a three-year period by at least 5% each year. This seemed to us in the left too rigid, since there is room for the application of the terms of the state's budget to sound economic management and balance, and we wanted and suggested a change to come to mind, with the permission of the president: ▪ The target of financial policy and financial programmes on the survival and economy of the government, i.e. Part A of the State and Part A, according to Article 1. 2 mg. Section 4. shall be published publicly and in a binding manner by a government at the beginning of each terms or at the beginning of the reign of a government if any change in government should occur at any other time. The target shall include positive overall equations over an average period of time, indicating peak slope failures per year and maximising the overall protection of the public. This is actually where we take out the percentages and what we think is too tight. For the members of the committee, it has been observed that the slope target should be connected to the receding correction so that it would be considered more convenient, and these 30% criteria are nowhere around us. They are more rigid than the Maastricht conditions that expect 60%, so this debt-to-peak rule up to 30% is too narrow and inflexible and in itself no direct logical support is provided because of it. Then it was pointed out when we were talking about the quality of society's peak that the debt target would depend on government interest for a long time. I'm not going to get into this without saying that we talked a lot about financial schemes and their role. I'm worried it won't be independent. The process, where to live, or how to work, is not really to be found. I would have wanted to restore a national economy that I believe is of great importance to good economic management. I say, as they say before, it's a very complex bill in many teams, very thorough. It's not just the Ministry, it's about the budget, and it's about all the government and local institutions as well. I'm worried that there's too much hope that this bill will solve all problems and it's also important that people see that this will not take effect next year. This will actually not take effect until maybe the election year or year after that, i.e. ... forthe next-priced period. We've been discussing budgets for the next few years that are normally based on the current laws, so it's quite important that this is actually going to work. I've found myself out in the community, in the firms of employment and others, to be rather high expectations that this will solve something. There are several points about the treatment right here at the council. It was always for us to get a little bit of a show, so if we can talk about it, we could go through the way we would, when we wanted, e.g. by making a change in some team within the council, to form within education, within the university or within the culture sector, or within the health sector, because the process is changing very much. It's not just a matter of time, nor can it be said how to handle it at the council, how to vote, and so forth. At least I don't feel well informed about it. It had actually been promised that it would be done, but it never happened. We're talking about setting up a total frame, which in itself is fine, he talks us, reviews the totals of each case, and in the fall of every group of cases, we're breaking down and entering the institutions, and we can't really change anything but within the framework. If the smaller part chooses to contribute considerable changes to something, a new bill would have to be submitted almost entirely, and for that reason the council has not met, i.e. Impelled members need to be funded in smaller ways so that this can be done. The costs and impact of all these factors need to be assessed, and the current situation is not possible. Of course, this has been discussed, and people in general acknowledge that it is part of the problem. I like a lot of things on the bill, but there's also the bad things I'm really worried about. First and last, I'm worried that people have too much hope that these things will solve something because we have budgets that are, unfortunately, often broken. As we went through the discussion earlier, they are unappreciated and aided by funds that do not belong at all, so there is no one who says this would solve such a thing. the problem. I'm not going to discuss this any more. I don't suppose there'll be a firm support in a group of left greens about this. Since our proposals did not receive a sound base, I assume that we do not fully support it at least
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u152	A respectable president. I recommend the opinion of the Economic and Business Committee on bill to correct the change in various tax and tax laws. The bill is made up at the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs having agreed with the head of the state tax and toll. The bill contains 30 articles and suggests a change to a total of nine laws, but the greatest changes are on income tax laws and on official payment laws. The subject of the bill is considered to be an electronic taxation and information on tax issues. Thus, tax cards become totally electronic. Salivation that can develop when people move from a larger home to a smaller home is no longer taxable. Instead of the end of July, the date for taxation of individuals will be at the end of June, which will be extended from 30 days to 60. Gifts from organizations that work for the public good will be free of genetic tax. The bill also meets logical opinions and comments of the EFTA Monitoring Institute that meet certain legal requirements on income taxes and the insurance laws. At the same time, the bill presents changes due to international commitments on fiscal information exchange. If the bill in law is a financial impact on the survival of the state funds, it is considered insignificant, under the direction of the office of public funds. On 2nd. I will seek to inform you about the work of the Economic and Business Committee on the case and the changes it suggests. The Commission's opinion and the adjustment of the proposal can be found on decks. 634. The committee received eleven calls. She was contacted by a representative of the Ministry of Financial and Economic Affairs, the head of state tax, Iceland's Stock Hall and Business and Service Association. On behalf of the Economic and Business Committee, I'd like to thank guests and clients for their contributions. Comments received by the committee and found at meetings on the subject suggested a comment that the committee considered appropriate and offered some adjustments to meet them. The committee supplied its opinion on December 14, which suggests that December 17, an additional meeting was held on the committee for the Ministry's presentation of change at 29 C.E. The bill. The change was decided into the committee opinion and has been requested. 634 printed accordingly. The main changes proposed by the committee will now be taken into account. First, there is an electronic divorce. In 1 1. The bill is suggested that the head of the tax be allowed to decide that the non-employees are generally electronic and that the treatment will be electronic as appropriate. A review published by the Committee points out that the requirement is desirable in order to be added to the judgment of the terms of income taxation in which the transmission of electronic decisions may be subject to material and formal binding. The committee agrees with these views and makes the adjustment of its proposal. In the 18th. The bill is submitted to a change of 3 mg. 2.g. Law, No. 94/1996, on the local payment of tax from capital incomes. The change is that bank companies, such as banks, savings, loan companies, will be added to sources that are reserved for tax pay on finance. The client who appeared to the committee considered it normal to also cover the stock markets that work under law No. 131/1997, the electronic registration of stocks. The committee feels that it is right to respond to this indication in order to simplify tax divorce, since the change does not involve a change in the income of a government fund. However, financial companies are obliged to return a capital tax collected by customers. 3 mg. 122. g. Toll law is authorized by the toll manager to postpone the dues of export fees until the level of cost tax reimbursement is generally lower than the tax tax. This warrant can therefore be used by other exporters who import resources for use in their activities. The same may be true when importers import products for use in the building of permanent funds used in the work, but when such for the purpose of the exporters attack in building and assign others to care on the basis of contracts, this possibility is lost, which is usually due to their caregivers, main contractors, who carry their products and pay off their transport fees. In order to limit the financial costs of the exported immigrants, the Committee suggests that toll managers be authorized to provide main contractors who have made the building contracts suggest that toll managers be authorized to provide main contractors who have made a contract of building a budget for an employee who has a pay period of 3.mg. 122. .., a comparable deadline to meet specific criteria presented in the Commission proposal. The proposal of the Commission is that the government fund will not be made of tax pay due to the change in the source. That's when I'm working on a changing law because of a tax alarm. Be 29. The bill of the law will allow several non-employable enterprises to provide non-related services involving the trade store storage to continue to be stored both toll provided and non-employed products in the same space in the same warehouse. According to the Committee, legal regulations 29 are at risk. if you have an unwanted situation. There may be a situation where companies who will continue to have the authority to store the non-employed and non-employed products in the same space at a customs store on the basis of the bill articles will be in a better position than the unregistered enterprises. For these reasons, the committee proposes a change of 29. to the Member States that we are validating par. 27 par. it will continue to be permitted to store tolls and non-tolled goods in the same space in a warehouse based on 29th. If such storage should only be allowed for ten years after the validation. It is regardless of whether they operate in an attempt to render service that involves operating atoll storage, as long as they are considered to meet the requirements of another decision 94. The law at that time. In ten years, those who will build on 29 C.E. should live on 29 st. enjoying sufficient time to take the necessary steps will lead to accepting Article 27. Despite approval of 27 C.E., the committee is on trial. gro, like 29. The bill, companies will continue to be able to apply for permission to run a customs store regardless of the purpose of their work but without permission to have tax pay and nonemployed products in the same area of storage. Finally, the Committee has considered changes in the bill of the ACTIVE SUBSTANCE (FAQ) report on a temporary reduction in the amount of donations made to the number of years 2016 and 2017 to 0.10% of the totals, instead of 0.13%. In March 2015 an agreement was made between financial and economic ministers and social and housing ministers on the one hand and the source of the EEA's work programme on the financial and financial services funds. This was expected to be a direct contribution from the State Fund in 2015 of about 200 million. K., during 2016, the extension would be 650 million. K. but in 2017, the government's budget would be put out of the budget, which would give 0.06% of the insurance market. Still, the income and pension fund continued to grow. The number of subjects in the activities of the Agency's activities will be less than expected in 2015, and his programme for 2016 will not allow for an increase in the number of people in the service, although it remains that the proportion of individuals who have been long since the workforce will be expected to visit a healthcare professional. In addition, there has been a major review of activities aimed at making the ministry ever more progressive, practical, and effective. Clearly, then, the financial resources of 0.13% of the contributions from employment and pension funds, dr. Counts 5 and 6. track No. 60/2012, work-related relocation and work-replacement funds, as well as 650 billion. K. a trust fund, is more money than is needed in 2016. In addition, the product reserve has reached the degree recommended in an insurance analysis. ACTIVE SUBSTANCE (S) has therefore requested a temporary reduction in the number of years 2016 and 2017 to be 0.10% of total donations instead of 0.13%. Then there will be no need to make full use of the budget of 2016. Rather, there will be a new 500 billion. K. 650 million instead. K. In 2017, a government contribution is expected to be more than 0.05% of the budget of insurance as estimated in budgets for 2017 instead of 0.06%. It is suggested that this change will be temporary, but it is important to reevaluate the scope of the activity before making a future decision, with a question still being developed. It is therefore assumed that these changes presented in the provisional guidelines for the work-replacement legislation and the activities of recycling funds, No. 60/2012, and law No. 113/1990 on insurance. The addition to the agreement is expected from March 2015, in which the proposed changes are made. The committee agrees with these requests and suggests a change in the subject. In view of the above mentioned, the Committee suggests that the bill will be adopted with the changes that follow. Under the heading of December 14, Frosti, Chairman Sigurjónsson, Guðmundur Steingrímsson, Valdður Bjarnadóttir, quoted earlier, Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir, and Sigríður Á. Andersen.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u153	A respectable president. As noted by the chairman of the committee earlier, I sign this opinion in advance. The foreman turns to pars. the bill, which includes the possession of possessions that people have had for less than two years, is tax free except when the property is more than 600 cubic feet [600 cu m] for an individual or 1,200 cubic feet [1,200 cu m] for a married person and should be taxed in proportion to the size of a home. I don't know if there is a need to cancel a law on this loss. That's why we won't vote with it, but I'm not against it. But that's what I meant. Then I'd like to reimburse that the provision of the provisional proposal for a sulphonate, a work fund, to reduce the pay from 0.13% to 0.1.3%, that this law takes only two years. I want it to be perfectly clear on my part. Of course it's clear from the text, but I just want to reiterate it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u154	Mr. President. Thank you. He's the head of the case for his review. It is quite clear that such cases are in nature without any particular transparency; they are presented because the bill itself is primarily involved in reforming laws with which percentages are displayed and often difficult to dive through it anyway. I believe, however, that after the review of the Committee, I can accept this bill's approval, but I sign it in advance. The foreword there shows the same points as the one who lives in it. paritaprevir The Bjarnadóttir of Valgerður mentioned in his speech just before, i.e. in the so - called volume rule. It was introduced into law 1972. The bill that had to be passed on to the law at the time was suggested to distribute the tax burden in a more righteous way than had been practiced, but for the validation of the Qualification Order, tax freedom was limited to holding time and increased as long as it was extended until the total tax freedom was reached. However, for a person who is, of course, a total of over 1,200 cubic feet [1,200 cubic meters] in an apartment home, taxable was made in excess of that amount. The bill then suggests that these sales will not be taxable when it comes to home housing for their own use. I will not support that change, and to that end my notice will lie, but otherwise I will back it up.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u155	A respectable president. This bill, which is now called the better and simpler tapeworm, has one very simple branch inside which is probably the beginning of a congregation in which I moved to a congregation assembly. 34, No. Thirty-four involved in changing the income tax law, i.e. about a so-called volume rule. After the case went through the Ministry, it was now only turned on, and it seems to me that what has been reported here by two heads. Councilmen they don't understand what it's all about. It is also a bit sad that this point could hardly be mentioned in the panel discussion. The government tax manager gave a review of the bill, and it was not mentioned, but it was called by government taxpayer information on the so-called volume policy I'm going to make here as a subject. A telegram received from the governor of the tax showed, however, I'm going to allow myself to read its contents, with the permission of the president, who passed between which the person standing here asks the governor of state: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. How often do we put stress on income tax on the market interest of individuals of an apartment house according to a volume rule in income tax laws? Is there any first thing in the taxation, i.e. Whether adults who have lost their mates are paying for their marriage according to this rule? If the amount is available, it is informative. That's the information I'm offering to the governor and the tax manager will answer: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. This information is unique only in part and therefore cannot be fully elucidated. However, it is clear that there are very few cases of taxation, perhaps a few cases per year. It is also possible to determine the exact mechanism of the event but perhaps. has had more experience with adults who live in larger possessions. Then there is no consideration of the volume rule, nor does it occur in the committee opinion. I give it up, Mr President, that I'm not on this committee, even though I'm on the Economic and Business Committee, because the procedure on the volume rule of the Committee wasn't an example, and I don't like them very much. It says that there is a correct beginning of the 1972 tax law, but it is forgotten in this matter that the volume rule followed another. It is that there was a price factor where the property was calculated according to the prices of the day of purchase to the day of sale, so that the goods became very different. What's the real estate? Costs of real estate are only profited from prices and prices. In other words, selling is a cost to the property created because of the low prices of the Icelandic crown. It's a little hard to cover the benefits of this country because few people understand that concept. But maybe I understand more if the English translation is used, and here I'm going to allow myself, by the permission of the President, to refer to the merits of English, which is called ◯Institution, adapt to inflation. Thus, real estate, which is only an increase in prices, changes in general prices, is suddenly a source of income for financial resources. Bad economic government is a revenue source for government funds. It's obviously completely unacceptable to property. I've been trying to turn things down and try to turn more cases into tax laws that taxe the loss of an Icelandic crown. When an inflation wave was removed by the turn of the century, this was left behind. I understand that the fear of people is that those who have a lot of possessions - I don't know how much property there are, they're beyond those cubic feet, 600 for an individual, 1,200 for a married couple - are very dangerous and must be reached. This is where I'm going to read a telegram from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, by permission of the President. I thought the person I thought was the most likely to write a telegram like that was done. For that reason, I would like to promote that a cautionary rule may be to remove the so - called volume rule. Those persons who have invested in property and sell money could fall under an investment, which could lead to inconsistencies, such as the U.S. as financial resources in stocks or in savings in credit accounts. They're paying capital taxes, but the investors could be the understatement. There's no question about the concept's understanding, and in addition, this ghost, a capital tax, is still in there. The fiscal tax, according to my opinion, is a tax on debt, so there is logic in taxes all roads from 1996, but let it be. So it is dangerous to have a lot of possessions. If you have a lot of assets, your rent and pay taxes, and this morning you have just dropped that tax rate. What for? Yes, to promote rent markets. The thought of this letter is contrary to that, i.e. to prevent the misfortune of renting on the part of individuals who prefer to keep their savings in property rather than in bank accounts, in which there are now strong efforts to eliminate any responsibilities and to cause them to deprive people of property. All this consideration, as I have often felt in the case of individuals in financial matters, shows that there is little respect for valuable individuals. It's permitted to walk on it almost like free quality, and it's intolerable. I will request that this article be repeated and that the subject be covered in whole, on the basis of the bill I have presented so that material work will be carried out that the committee did not have for working on this discussion. First of all, the committee did not investigate this matter. There's a fallacy in it, and I think their understanding has gone wrong. The senators Valgerður Bjarnadóttir's daughter and the daughter Katrín James's Jakobsdóttir on this matter are somewhat distorted and may not be able to correct this confusion on that side of politics. But anyway, I'm going to correct this understanding in my category if I succeed in retracting it. But that's what I'm saying. I don't think that's all I have to say. The bill includes some other adjustments, and I don't have much to say and hope that the people will begin to understand the concept of compensation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u156	A respectable president. I'm not particularly interested in extending this discussion much, but I am obliged to come up here to correct a big misunderstanding that I'm not. The senator who discussed the matter in terms of the procedure of volume, which seems to be an understanding. The senator said there was a big mistake here. The bill suggested removing a volume rule of income taxation when deciding whether the sale interest from an apartment building is to be used for personal use in terms of taxable income. In other words, those who live in a house that may even be very large do not have any market interest. That's what just happened. There was an arrangement to make room for it. Sure would. A senator goes even further and, no matter how much house he owned, would be free of tax. In other words, though they had 10s. About four feet of rent - rent housing - all over the city that was raised at hand - should be tax free. Now I'm gonna come up with some questions. Senator. Now there are companies and real estates, which are taxable by all the sales markets that run tenures, e.g. An apartment house for individuals. How would they react if they were taxable on their sales fees, which they would certainly be able to delay in various ways but are on the basis of tax pay on sale, if individuals were completely tax-free from the same business? Is there any precedent from other countries that the individual's interests in business are tax-free, tax-free, and market-free?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u157	A respectable president. I don't think it's necessary to answer this question because we're comparing the individuals and the corporate statistics on the other hand. [[Take it up: No, come on.]] Companies live in a totally different situation, for example, with the possibility of losing their income and limitations that are not available to individuals, so there is a very different situation. However, there are very few cases where it comes to taxation. More importantly, if the individual falls away and a home comes to his inheritance, he or she will pay the heirs of this specific property in relation to real estate and sell it without any sale. There's a ghost here as a dog. A senator does not seem to leave behind the loss of his share of prices. That's what I'm trying to do here, but as I said before, the Committee didn't have time to investigate this case, and that's why I suggest that it be removed or canceled with the tools and tools authorised at the General Assembly. A respectable president. This is as far as I've got it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u158	Mr. President. This is so wrong. The general rule is that sales of property are taxable. The exception is, if you had a home for two years or more, it's not tax - related. This is an exception to the general rule that property's markets are subject to taxes. If you're giving anything to anyone, for example. an individual, a completely different taxable situation than an enterprise, it is quite clear that it has an effect, it catalyses. Much of the profits made inletting work are often due to increases in property prices, and this would totally change a competitive position between individuals and those who do this as an enterprise. That's what the committee wanted to investigate further. It was not that the committee was completely against the matter. She just didn't think it was fully researched, as mentioned at a meeting of the Committee, and she wanted to be able to make the required changes made by the Ministry. You may want to take a closer look at this subject and examine all the consequences, obtain visitors, and see what the consequences are. They had not allowed time to do so, and when such a short period of time is at hand, it is more likely that such changes will not come into play. Rather, they are presented as a bill, and I encourage them. A senator to do that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u159	A respectable president. In this later case, it's against who. At that time, a senator did not shrink to the understanding of the term "improvements " and the understanding of property profits. Costs of real estate are due to the evaporation of the Icelandic crown. There's another example that I'm going to take that may be much more intense, and it's that if someone buys a cottage and buys it for, like, 30 years, it's about 20% of the price of the sale tax, not because the summer farm has gone up for real, but because it's up because it's inflated. It may well be the best thing to bring up all the real estates under the hierarchical order so that individuals may have to pay their taxes when selling them even if they did not have an actual rise. The price factor here in a 1972 to the turn of the century adjusted this to some extent. Other than that, I think I answered what was asked and tried to make men understand something else, but I end my case for a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u160	V.E.G. President. I don't have a seat. The Economic and Business Committee, but it's a matter of observation. I don't think I'm going to accept the different views that have been presented here. The chairman of the committee, Frosti the son of Sigurjónsson, and why. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason's son. Clearly, there is some conversation that will take place before they come to a common understanding of this subject. On the other hand, I just wanted to appreciate my position on this matter, which is basically based on the same thought that I believe, in the bill that Vilhjálmur Bjarnason has delivered on this subject, which includes the removal of the volume rule, which, in my opinion, is a very unusual way to taxation. As noted, although the state taxpayer's data are clearly incomplete on this subject, it is clear that this rule has rarely led to taxation, but it is odd, and I believe it needs a review beyond what is stated in the current financial and business proposals. On the other hand, I can agree with the way the bill is going on, which is expected in the bill, i.e. that they may be caught up in taxation for goods, which have been used for their own farms. I believe it is better for the change to take place than for existing rules to remain in effect. I think that's an improvement, but I still believe that there is a greater need to consider this and to follow through on the situation. So I'll vote with the suggestion that more than a share of the Economic and Business Committee suggests in this matter, which includes a lack of tax in the case of an apartment house that is useful for one's own benefit, but I believe that there is a full reason for it, on the basis of the views that are appropriate. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason has suggested that this be considered in a larger context so that the lack of tax can be extended further. I believe that the taxation of this kind is generally spoken of as undesirable, and the concept world on which it is based doesn't like me, when people are considering taxation in no way related to income or such items, but in fact, it's just that the state is taking a piece of human property. In the same way, I'm basically opposed to the use of property as an anti-employment agent. But I think we can agree, or at least for my part I can do that, the way that the majority of the Committee suggests in this relationship, I believe that there is an improvement from what is currently in force. I believe, however, that there is good reason to look at this on a wide range of grounds and on the basis of their viewpoints. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason has tore up.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u161	A respectable president. I'm forced to come up here and correct one simple thing, and he's calling it, okay? The Economic and Business Committee doesn't recommend anything. All you can suggest is what's stated in the bill. I reiterate the fact that the committee's comments were as little as possible and did not bother to mention that one word in its committee, so that the review of the committee is not exactly as it appears on the pages here. I want this to exist on the last day of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u162	A respectable president. I come up here just to swerve the story. The Commission decided to submit this bill to deal with certain issues, but the Committee called attention to specific points that could be added to the new global law on property sales and ships, No. 70/2015, of value on July 20, 2015. Experience has revealed several opportunities to improve legislation, but the Committee's bill responds only to factors that are considered urgent. At the end of the bill, the committee had a consultation with a strategist. Nevertheless, one night he wished for it. A member of the committee after the matter was called back to the committee to discuss the matter further. After that committee meeting, the Commission decided to reexamine the matter after that discussion, and so it has come in the same form from 1st. I'm not going to say too much about this, but I'd rather not. The need to create a set work permit for students who are students for legalisation of property sales and ships is being made open, and they can work with certain conditions after they have completed one full term of adequate averages and gain adequate work experience and thus be able to perform certain clearly stated tasks. The source is conditional that projects are being carried out under the responsibility and supervision of a realtor for two years after being granted. Then there are also two temporary provisional measures to deal with the failure of some people to get to study or apply for the study and to give them some time to start the study. It says that it needs to be no later than September 1, 2016. That's the 6th floor. reviews those persons who have a very high age of work, 20 years at those jobs and have reached 50 years of age, who can be registered on a separate list. Nevertheless, those who intend to work under either permanent law for the students or the provisional decision for the other two groups must work under the direction and responsibility of a law - appointed real estate salesman, as well as a clearly specific task. This was in the opinion of the Commission for improvement and the need to achieve the aim of the Committee's Committee that there is the motivation here for a legal course and that most people are taking the initiative to bring the buyers and sellers to this big decision, buy or sell real estate, to have as well an education as they can be prepared. It's for consumer protection and for the purpose of the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u163	A respectable president. The bill under discussion appeared in November. I repeat what I said when the bill was submitted by the Economic and Business Committee. I did not sit in contact with them because of a foreign absence in behalf of a council, but I requested in a previous discussion that the matter be brought back to the committee, but it was not up to my recommendation to call for a certain person whom I mentioned. Now the bill comes back again, and I repeat it again and again that I believe it is at best useless and at worst dangerous, i.e. the issues involved. I'm going to start by taking the points for which the Economic and Business Committee went a long way in handling the situation. spring, i.e. About the inability of real estate dealers to get involved in real estate. This is discussed in Article 3. and is not only improving but also improving greatly, making real - estate transactions possible in smaller communities in a much - related country. The important thing in this article is that they are ordering transparency into real estate, which is natural what is important to the relevant partners, i.e. that the buyer and the seller should be informed about this if the server is in a special wallet with the other person. Also, a minister is assigned to set the number of units for study. But the other factors, to legalize what is involved, that a salesman, a salesman, or an assistant to a real estate dealer, or what name he has permitted to show real estate. I don't know how it's going to come in because he's allowed to show real estate. In the current law of 2004/2015, all the responsibility for the arms of the realtor was found, but there seemed to be some question about the management of the Ministry of the Committee on the bill submitted to the last council and became legal. Spring. The bill was then under way, but there were no major changes. What may have paralysed the 2004 legislation was required to associate real estate dealers with the review board. There's nothing new in this bill on responsibilities in real estate, which is always on the back of real estate. Then, according to the nature of the case, helpers, sales agents, or what job titles are authorized to do things for the real estate dealer. There's no need for any man to tell me that the real estate commission is about to start investigating who's punching numbers into a record of sale, but the record is always the responsibility of the real estate dealer. The purchase offer, which then becomes a contract over time, is the responsibility of the realtor. I don't think anyone can even start keeping track of who punchs in numbers. The real estate thing, I don't know how it really came in. This may have been contained in regulations. This law that only a legitimate real estate agent is allowed to show no improvement in real estate but in these cloths up here. These points give students or sales representatives some source that no one knows. I don't know how their professional responsibilities should be unless they fall under the legitimate real estate agent. That's not the subject of this bill. Then there's a 20/50 rule, 20 years of working age and 50 years of life, the way it exists, it's a complete mystery to me, and how these figures are obtained because those who have been doing this so far can continue to do it on the basis of current law, and therefore will not alter the responsibilities of the real estate dealer and absolutely no need to legalize it. It seems to me that these regulations assume that only those who have been in the field service for six months are allowed to attend. I cannot see how it can be said that only those who have been working for six months are allowed to attend these things that have been served for six months. There's a number of rationalities in this matter. I know exactly what the end of this bill will be. They'll probably become them that they'll be agreed with 62:1 votes, and then I'm pretty sure there's a disaster on the way. My position is in the least place, and I wash my hands completely off the existence of this bill, which I find rather strangely sweet to be laid before the council. I have expressed my viewpoint and have repeated what I said in my earlier speech here today that it seems to me that with this bill, it is really a reminder that there is little respect for the property of others. Are additional sources being added to the unskilled? I can't see it. If so, it is dangerous, as I said before - I said: It is in danger of being useless and, at worst, dangerous. Adding information to those who are not taught to handle others'belongings is a lack of respect for the property of others. The individual's real estate is usually one of the two largest individuals and is equal to that of the individual. A respectable president. I repeat my opinion once again. The bill is useless. At worst, it's dangerous. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u164	Mr. President. It's kind of new that I don't agree fully. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason. He is usually the natural person to be able to look at things a little better and often through other glasses. From experience, I have learned to pay attention at all times. A senator sometimes makes his dramatic statements, usually some of which are central and often very large. This time, I agree with him that some of the articles may have been overlooked by the committee during the previous year. Hv. For example, a senator declared that the feature of the bill related to transparency and concerned the veneer of those who deal in real estate with consumers is an improvement. I agree with him about that. I also agree with him in terms of the change made and deals with the permission of a minister to set the number of units of the study. Other than that, I don't agree with it. Senator. I think it's proper to make this clear, because I participated in the preparation of this case, of course, under the Ministry. I was at a meeting where the Ministry declared that this bill was an improvement. But what may be of utmost importance to professionals is the fact that a real estate agent's board came to a meeting with the committee and covered the bill thoroughly. There was now none other than our Excellency Þórður Bogason, chairman of that committee and former prime worker of the council and a great legal feature, who said that the bill was a step forward and important thing. He described in a way how the review board had seen himself forced to act after seeing a change in the law and then in what way the Ministry paid to do with regulations. This would have led to the situation that has been discussed here at the Council before. This situation is illustrated by the number of people who have mentioned between 100 and 200 people - as many as 400 people who have not legalized but who are engaged in real - estate jobs. And it was true that the review board went to some places, and this led to immediate loss of jobs. Thus, it was absolutely arranged that in some way the matter had to be reexamined, which was done by the General Assembly. I believe the General has shown some kind of reflexes and had a very good look at this. The other is so different that it may be as though it were always for law to look into matters further, just as the case discussed above. I could hear no better than it would be willing to look at views and perhaps change them more. It's the same here. We found it quite clear on the review of the Committee that there were opinions on these matters and that there were other issues to be changed, and I am convinced, whether it will be the lot of the Economic and Business Committee or the Ministry, that it will be done. This bill, however, takes only a few factors to make sure that while this change is going through the loss of work, people do not lose their jobs. Hv. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason believed this was at best useless laws, at worst harmful. I disagree with him. I believe the bill will continue to ensure the consumer protection that was the purpose of the law adopted earlier this year, but at the same time it will cut off certain disorders that make those who have been salesmen can continue their work under the supervision and responsibility of a legitimate real estate salesman. Hv. A senator said there was nothing new in this bill. I don't agree with him on that either. I look at all of this together, the laws given earlier this year, law No. 70/2015, and the way the European Commission interpreted them. The interpretation of the Commission is in the Regulation, and I disagree. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, who says that there is nothing that prevents salesmen or others, whatever their names, from continuing their busy activities, including the displaying of real estate, which, of course, is an important part of this situation. First, I'd like to recall that in 2 gr. track No. 70/2015, i.e. The laws from earlier this year clearly identify those who have the authority to make the trade and sale of property. It simply says: 'The only one allowed to be transmitted by others as a means of purchase, sale, or exchange of property, or registrationable ships, which have the legal right of a businessman.' That is what 2 C.E. says. In the 3rd. it goes on to say that in order to obtain legalization, you need to have completed a certain study and work for 12 months with a legitimate real estate agent. And what may be important about how the Ministry interprets this is probably 6. ... aboutthework of real estate sales. It says, with permission from the President: A real estate dealer is assigning others to do the work that the legal office will do unless it is a second real estate salesman with insurance insurance, [...]. It's as tight as it can be. I've never been on this case before, and I don't know how it's been interpreted in the past. But I come to this article, which is found in the laws adopted at the General Assembly, and this is what it is. The word "probably " is a word. It clearly states that a real estate agent must not delegate to anyone unless the same one has completed the legalization. I believe that it is necessary to read the official regulations presented by the Ministry and that likely led to the failure of humans. That's where I think it's pretty clear, and I think it's a big hit. In between three and four. which is published on the Ministry's Web has a strong reputation. There's nothing to be left but a legitimate real estate agent according to what it says. In the 3rd. The Regulation, so that I'm content to deal with it, is simply listed up as real estate sales, and it says unprovable: The Committee to Reconstruction the work of his legal authority. Thereafter, we list no less than ten projects. It's a project that, in effect, does all the work I think salesmen, although no word in the law is found so far. These include the preparation and signing of contracts for services, the preparation of a record of a very important part of that trade, the opinion of real estate, and the making of prices, advice for buyers and sellers. What's up for counseling? I wonder if it's an act of housing. But because of him. The senator mentioned it quite specifically at that time, saying in no uncertain terms, that among the role of real estate sales that are not allowed to hand over to others is a display of real estate. I'm thinking people shouldn't be asking too hard about this matter. I think we're getting a little clearer here. It is possible that in the past the Ministry has not interpreted the law as clearly as the current labour force does. But I believe that when you read the law on the other hand, I'm talking about reading together, chapters 2, 3, and 6. current law, No. 70/2015, and paragraphs 3 and 4. The Regulation presented on the Ministry's website makes it very clear that those who are not legally authorized are upset. In the event of such legal action, the Commission and the Allied Council are to clear away any confusion, while holding at the same time the nonsurgent protection contained in the law. Hv. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason also made a mention of the law's law, which makes a special temporary allowance for those who have reached a certain age but who have a certain experience. Of course, it is controversial, how humans resolve such issues, but this is unmistakably new. This has been done many times, or this way has been done in a number of ways, for example, so I refer to industrial affairs, which I know a bit, after I've used the executive force in that area, in the time of legalization of industry. At that time, the others and those rules enabled humans to cross this fray and allow them to move between systems. As soon as I wake up. A senator to hold onto his convictions as the Constitution invites him, however, I can assure him, that is at least my opinion after reading this together, that here we are taking a positive step that at the same time strengthens the foundation for real estate transactions but also prevents unnecessary agitation from many of the people involved. Mr. President. I fully agree with members of the committee, all of whom felt that it would be right for the matter to go back to the council for the final payment. Then we can work together in the future to keep those laws together. Only in such a law can it be said that they are constantly revised and re - creation. However, I agree with the chairman of the surveillance committee, which made it absolutely clear that he was very happy to see this bill and to look for progress.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u165	A respectable president. I'm going to have my last talk, so I'm going to take a little longer on this matter. First of all, I'm gonna say it's gonna be fun when it's dark. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson and what. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason agree, then he can. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson has come to his place, to the Independence Party, but he probably has the best hold I know. But there is another matter. I have refused to understand the beginning of this case, how these legislation could be a challenge to the security of up to 400 people, as described in a phone call to me. Getting a divorce is absolutely a waste of my life. Here's where I'm going to remember what happened. He is that it was customary in this town that a so - called real estate salesman was set up, where a few tables were on the floor and a man would rent a table. The owner took up this business, and no one knew where the responsibility was. That's the exposé that was just being addressed, i.e. where the responsibility lies; the responsibility for selling indexes, the responsibility for making contracts, and the responsibility for making all documents. The responsibility for all documenting rests on the real estate, and in no circumstances can anyone hand it over to another real estate salesman so that responsibility in this business cannot be broken. That is what we will discuss. It is forbidden to delegate to others other than legal responsibilities in this matter, but it is in the nature of the issue, as in most jobs, that helpers are present. As I have said before in this chair, on the same issue, the assistants of judges are employed here in the Supreme Court and the province. Judge's assistants contribute much to the court itself, but their assessment is not made. The judgment is pronounced by the appointed judges. Supporters do things for the person they help. That's what they're dealing with, and I can't see better than any existing law at home. I have not been allowed to know exactly what the board of surveillance was taking, but the Regulation had not been set up at the time of this development. Perhaps this could have been a suggestion that, somewhere, the Regulation has gone rather far. I think it's the beginning of this case that in some cases the Regulation went beyond the law. So it would have been better to stop and ask: What are men doing in the Regulation? I've only studied legal rights. There are well over a hundred professions that enjoy such legal protection, and the largest professions are within the medical sector. There doctors can work on the responsibility of doctors before completing a test, perhaps normal, because medical and industrial education is somewhat similar; it is part of a study. It also applies to nurses who serve as assistants to those who have completed their studies. But it seems to me that we're just going way more than we need. I'm waiting for the highest. The Minister of the Interior brought a change in air travel and the homes of pilots flying on a flight plan and jets that have ended the sun's test. It is very similar to what is being suggested as uncertain as this may be, but I believe this is an unnecessary step. It would have been better to sit down with the Ministry and ask: Is it not overstepping the law? The points on which the committee was taking action were so called a cover - up in real - life trade, where they were renting out a desk where people worked, apparently, on their own responsibility, and called themselves a realtor, but, of course, let go of the word ◆ legalistically in front of them. This is what we just took. I repeat, I'm asking tomorrow's vote to be on the way that there will be about 60 votes with and one in return. That's fine, then. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u166	Mr. President. There is no doubt that this is true in the case of a man. A senator that we can agree on much. But I disagree completely with him, and it's that I'm the best member of the Independence Party. I think there's a lot of overassessment of my conservativeness, which, of course, does exist in various substances, but not to a sufficient degree. Has a what? A senator wondered: " Could it be possible that in the past people have not interpreted the law correctly in regulations and were too relieved? I wondered that because of what I was doing. A senator says, and I take his words credible in that matter, that there are no physical changes in the articles of the law I have been referring to. They have been since 2004, and I was told why. A senator says, and that regulations and regulations on the basis of them were not so fixed. But when I come to this by the old eyes of the executive and the present eyes of the Lawgiver and read the law, it seems to me that the Regulation is in perfect harmony with the law. That's my conclusion. I referred here to three laws earlier from the law that were approved in spring. That verse contains no warning from the 6th chapter. that it is forbidden a real estate salesman to delegate to others to do jobs required of the law unless there is another real estate agent. Hv. A senator then says that everyone has helpers. Is that right? I got it. I got it. A senator to read Article 4. There's a warrant and it's like this, with President's permission: It is always permitted to hire employees to do general office jobs or services that do not depend on real estate transactions. It looks like there's no error on the part of the executives, and I don't think there's anything wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u167	A respectable president. I don't think that earlier 2004 legislation has failed because disputes were out of obligation and no rules were allowed by the review board to shape any rules. I'm afraid the act of the law didn't have to be specific enough, I'm afraid. Then, I'm told, there's a bill and there's a bill again, and they'll never be cast out until this council. Last year, a whole bill that was not referred to earlier essays was finally released, and it's not a piece of butt. In other words, it is a universal law that reexamines the laws of real estate. I haven't changed my mind. I believe that the law has been determined that the person could hire a variety of employees but there would never be a loss of responsibility, there would never be responsibilities, so anyone working as an assistant would do it is responsible for real estate. That's what it's all about. Then there's the other thing, which I think is a major problem with this bill, that I can't see how kidneys can happen because the article is almost closing. There's a big flaw on the bill. But if they want to close the story, it's no harm to me. I'm simply saying that one of my biggest sins in life was that I didn't walk to a police officer in 1977 and I bought real estate rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u168	Mr. President. I don't know if I trust myself to agree with my final claim. A senator, but I do not doubt that he had been successful in this regard. Here at the Council, there are many geniuses in business. I'm not one of them. I listen very carefully for a while. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason says about that topic. Everything he says about flying, I view as a kind of law order because he's the man who's sitting here at the council who knows about it most. But we're not in it yet. However, I'm going to allow myself to differ, but he says that it's only because of the way a man can hire help to handle the other and this: real estate trade if it's under the supervision of a real estate dealer, just because it's the way 4. ... isworded. It contains virtually what kind of helpers you can hire, and it is defined in a specific way. And the fact that no assistants are talking about real estate transactions themselves leads to the conclusion that no other issue can be made on the basis of Article 4. but that the European Commission has decided not to have the authority. That is my opinion, and I must also come to the conclusion, in view of the words in the laws I have referred to, that it may be highly skeptical that the authority has the authority to do so by law. In any case, I believe that we are in the first place here to ensure consumer protection. Second, the men who have lost their job because of our system of law have taken cover with this. [[The president calls.]] Then I can say the word. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason said that there may be other issues involved in this matter that must be considered. [[The president calls.]] But with this bill, we've at least destroyed the problem that is more urgent.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u169	A respectable president. A simpler approach to this matter may now have been to meditate on 4. A smile, that's what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson has read here, and see if the committee's overstepped it. The purpose of the Commission, when working for a good job, was not to secure the position of a legitimate real estate salesman, not guaranteeing staff status, but indeed to ensure the right of consumers, since these legislation is primarily a consumer law, it is to ensure the right of consumers. It may be that the countermark of a businessman, former head of a insurance company, hombre. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson is right, so you could point to 4. c., doing things in a simple way. Here, though, it is likely to be shooting out of cannons and having been closer to settling down quietly rather than rushing up to and up to your hands and feet, as it was done in a week or ten days. It still supports me, and more importantly, that this case is a disaster issue, a disaster bill, and, in any way, useless, at worst, dangerous.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u170	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct housing benefits, but the bill was brought for the first time at the last assembly. In recent years much work has been done at the Ministry of Health in collaboration with stakeholders on housing in this country. For one thing, vision has been directed toward public housing, which includes rent repairs for rent-bolus and for the growth of property sprays and livestock sprays, and how to balance housing support for these two systems with different agricultural shapes. You've also been considering how to create more positive and better incentives in the housing support system, and I'd like to point out, for example. to the latest World Bank report on changes to the tax system in this regard. In September 2013, I appointed a project management on the future housing arrangements that were designed to shape proposals for future housing policies. I also appointed with regard to the working team acting as representatives of 32 stakeholders assigned to the project to advise. The task management then gave me their proposals in May 2014, but what the project manager suggested was to set up housing with the government's new housing system, where support would be given to the economy rather than to farm shapes. Based on proposals for housing benefits from 2012 and proposals by project management group from 2014 were suggested. So now I recommend a bill to legalize housing improvements, which I consider to be the first major step in implementing the proposal for future housing projects. The primary objective of the bill is to reduce the cost of housing for smaller tenants, as well as to balance public housing with different habitats, and thus contribute to a real selection of farm shapes and to provide security for housing, in accordance with individual needs. The bill is intended to meet the changed reality of Icelandic households. It is necessary, in my opinion, that there may be an increase in the security of tenants, but according to information from Iceland's Haust Office, the share of budgetary funds has increased substantially in recent years for families on rent markets while the burden of housing costs has been reduced by depositors by mortgages. Last year, the load of housing costs was generally 24.3% in general market tenants compared to 16.3% in apartment owners with mortgages. At the same time, the number of tenants has increased dramatically and are now about 31 of you. homes in a rented market. By 2008, some 13% of families lived in rented homes, but in 2014 that proportion had reached nearly 21%. The number of people in the tenet market has been one of the most common young people between 25 and 23 years of age, among single parents, individuals, and people in lower income groups. The chances of being in a rented market are thus high as the income is lower. The situation of these people is difficult. A biography study of Iceland's Habitat found that the proportion of people under the low income limit is nearly four times higher in tenants in a public tenet than in those living in their own housing. Thus, more than 22% of renters in the general market were below the low limit in 2013 compared with less than 6% of those living in their own housing. I emphasize that the tenants of social housing are not included here but only tenants of public rent. It is also fair to assume that the study also revealed that 60% of rent-exploited households belong to the two lowest income-five teenagers compared to 31% of homes who live in their own housing. The challenge of tenants is also indicated by the fact that tenants today are more than part of an agent's client's debt. I mentioned here that as she died with the tenants in her own house, the burden of housing was increased by tenants. This also applies to those who have a substantial burden of housing, which is already 40% or more of the provisional materials at housing costs. Thus, tenants who live under extreme taxation of housing have increased as the number of people who live under considerable taxation and who live in their own housing. It should be noted that tenants in a public tenet are the most likely group to live under extreme housing costs compared to other housing groups. The second most likely are the other tenants who rent from relatives at a lower price than the general population and who live in a social tenement. Thus, last year almost 19% of tenants in general lived under enormous burden of housing expenses compared to 6% of the apartment owners with mortgages, for example. The labour market management and the labour market have emphasized the need to correct these difficult tenants'employment conditions in relation to collective labour agreements. A declaration presented to cover spring labour agreements and provided as a package to the bill shows that this will be done by increasing the support of chemical smaller families and individuals and balance of the State's housing for property sprays, cabib sprays and livestock spray so that people will have a real choice between different habitats. The first step will be the new housing system. A respectable president. I believe that there is a wide framework of agreement on the need to match government housing support with different agricultural shapes, but in view of the different nature of the housing costs available for housing support, depending on the type of housing involved, the change in both housing services was also a result of the workforce participation, not to be combined in one system of housing, but to make changes in both housing support panels to level the support of different habitats. The government is expected to be responsible for financing and repairing. This is in accordance with the 2012 and 2014 committee proposal. This is also in accordance with the EU Union's policies of rural society in 2014-2018, but the rural communities have up to this point involved the implementation of rent payments under the current legal laws on renting property. State funds have financed more than 60% of the cost of rent money than are the 40% of rural areas. The bill suggests a change in rural income law in this relationship so that rural communities will be equal to the change. At the same time, this change is expected to be determined by a regulation on which an institution will be entrusted with the implementation of housing benefits, but it is suggested that the decisions of the Agency be charged with the decision-making committee of welfare matters. This is a change from what was on the bill made during the last assembly. At the same time, it is important, as it was in the bill shown by the last Parliament, that rural society continues to care for special housing services, as is now being done by special rent repairs. It is therefore suggested that it be legalized in the local community service legislation, which is now in the legal capacity for renting property. I believe that this reflects better what is involved in the specific payments, social assistance. In this regard it should be noted that the organisation to be entrusted with the construction of the housing reform system will be permitted to provide rural information on the rights of candidates for housing and the household members living in that home, their approval for such information is assured. Such information may be necessary so that the local community can assess the need for a partner to provide additional housing from the local community on the basis of local social services legislation. What is fundamental and important to bear in mind is that this is a new system of thinking. It is suggested that basic housing benefits take into account the number of members of the household rather than the family or the number of children taking into account the income and property of those in the household aged 18 years and older and the cost of housing. It is estimated that the basic housing height for an apartment building where a person lives alone will be 31 of you. K. every month or 372 you. K. each year for loss of income, property, and payment at housing costs. In this case there was a significant increase in housing support for tenants, but the basic financial value of an individual or of a married couple without children in the current rent - rent system can be at least 22 you. K. every month or 264 doses. K. every year. However, it is expected that any age of the population of the household will take into account the population of the population of the home, thus providing basic housing up to 54,250 dollars. when there are five or more members of the household. However, family income and possessions influence the right to improve housing and to compromise that right. However, children's income and possessions are expected not to affect the amount of housing benefits, but in this regard children are considered to be law - directed toward their parents until 18 years of age, and it seems unusual that their income and possessions will impair their household's housing. The bill estimates that basic housing benefits are reduced monthly by 8.02% of the combined annual income of 18 years of age and older over certain home limits. In this regard it is also expected that the number of people of all households, regardless of age, will take into account the same factors that are contributed to the value of basic housing. Although it is new to say that, in the current rent - rent system, there are always the same limits, regardless of the number of people in your household, which lead to more than one income in your home being cut down on rent payments to that house very quickly or even completely dropped. So start renting in a current system that reduces your household's income over 2,550. K. In a year, equivalent to over 212 you. K. per month. However, with the bill, when more people live together, they strive to meet the relatively higher cost of living together with them by leaving behind a number of homes. But I think that all should be aware that more income is needed to meet the cost of household expenses, including housing costs, as many are more household members. I believe that by these changes, if the bill is legal, there will be considerable legal compensation for the number of households. For example, it is assumed that a single parent with one child could have a higher income than that of a reduced income because of the current rent - rent system, which assumes that the parent's holiday limit will take into account a large number of members of the household, so remember in this case with two members of the household. According to the bill, a parent might thus have 3,240 you. K. in a year prior to a decline compared to the current programme where the income of the same parent is greater than 2,550 you. K. Cut rent. In view of the suggestion that the vacation line takes into account the number of members of the household by the same factors and ideals, there is expected to be a 4,725 holiday limit for a family of five. K. every year instead of 2,550 years. K. in the local rent system. However, it is assumed that the bill will be introduced into two stages, so that the first year after the execution of the law - proposed by this bill that it will be January 1 and I think it is quite clear that the welfare committee must carefully review that date - the value of the same pardon for all who apply for housing this year, regardless of the number of members of the home or 2.7 million. K. For by the income of all the household, and the statute to be done in full effect a year later. This is also in line with the declaration in relation to the collective agreements that it was spoken of as being carried out in two phases. I got it. I got it. the welfare committee to review this carefully, what's the best date for the induction, and if this space can be used to see the holidays. It is expected that income will be the same as in terms of growth improvements. That's part of what we're talking about, we're trying as much as we can take the steps toward making these systems look alike. Thus, income refers to all taxable income, along with pay pay paid, to those who work in international institutions or to government agencies, even if tax-free income is involved. It is thus assumed that the payment of social security will be paid in the sense of the bill, but it has not been counted to pay in the sense of rent payment, although other public services intended for forwardation have been regarded as pay, such as unemployment benefits and financial support for local community services. We can see by reference that those in this group along with those who rely on disability have had the highest proportion of those who live in poverty in Iceland. In contrast, employment benefits and financial support for social services are lower, and they have been counted as earners, but the financial benefits have not been. It is our view that it is normal to be equal in that relationship. It is therefore suggested that all contributions intended to be made are considered as income in the sense of the bill, as there is a taxable income. In terms of possessions, it is assumed that the annual base value of housing would be reduced by over 6.5 million. K. A quarter dollars until they drop completely in a 60% higher sum of 10.4 billion. K. It is the same arrangement and property boundaries, and it holds value for the loss of interest on the property of married couples and partners, but it was decided to consider the limits of property rather than the limits of singles and single parents in the growth system. In contrast, the growth of single - parent families and single - parent families begin to reduce their holdings to more than 4 billion. K. and fall growth improvements to a total of 6.4 billion. K. At the same time, it is expected that property definitions will be the same as those produced by the growth reform system. On the other hand, after considering the details, we feel that the majority of those in the tenet have very little possessions. The thought of having these only limits of property was to try to simplify the system as much as possible. It is also assumed to be the same definition of property that is part of the growth system. It is suggested that housing be covered so that they will never be able to make more money than 75% of the amount of housing due to the appropriate housing facilities so that a person will always have to cover 25% of his expenses. However, this is an increase. It has been this way in the rent system that rent payments have not been able to buy more than 50 percent of the cost of housing. It is our hope that this will meet some of the change in paying social security under the income definition. According to the bill, one member of the household is expected to apply for housing as well as to be the one paid for housing. In this regard the person is expected to request written requests that housing be paid directly to the landlord, and this is in line with the comments received to the welfare committee when the bill was sent out for review during the last assembly. It is then suggested that housing be paid monthly, like rent payments in a current system. In terms of the conditions of housing reform, it is suggested first that the applicant and other members of the household be placed in an appropriate home setting in the sense of the bill, i.e. that the person truly lives in the rented home, where he has a registered legal home. Moreover, because each individual is generally viewed as holding a home in one place, it is required that the individual be not included in another home. They are expected to be 18 years of age or older. Thus, children are not expected to have their own right to repair housing, as children from their parents or guardians from 18 years of age under child law are not to be given their own rights and, in general, not to gain financial resources until their age is reached. The house - to - house support, in view of this provision, runs out to those who have their children. The bill suggests that this also happens in the case of children who are temporarily living on dormitories, parks, or foster parents because of temporary abortion under child protection laws. Is it therefore assumed that despite the principle of homemaking, only those living in that home would be considered to be children under 18 years of age who have temporary dwellings in houses or parks or in foster parents in their parents'home or in the care of their parents. An obligation to have an apartment house that includes a regular and adequate home setting is required, with a minimum of one bedroom with a special house or a special firehouse, a special grooming, or a bath position. This was one of the comments made in the treatment of the matter. However, this is not suggested as a change to meet those comments. It is not expected that housing will be provided for housing that is intended for use other than apartments other than all or partially rented apartments, nor will it be rented to a part of an apartment house, such as through renting individual rooms. Furthermore, it is suggested that housing be required to have a plagiarized lease on the premises for at least three months. This is a legal reform, a change from a local rent system required to have a plagiarismic contract for at least six months. This adjustment suggests that a home may have the right to improve housing because of its short - term rent in an apartment home, since rent time is no less than three months. There's a reason for this, and the argument that I emphasize is that the length of a contract is generally in the hands of a landlord, not a tenant, and has conditions for six months' rent time, as a measure of the burden for tenants and in order to reduce their prospects of government housing. It is also assumed that there is a requirement for the approval of all members of the household for the Agency to perform the building improvement system taking advantage of the information necessary to provide applications and otherwise enforce the law. This is not to be expected to have the right to improve housing when a member of the household is properly used for growth, as has been the case with a member of the household or with a member of the household associated with a household in a more specific way is the owner of the home. However, certain restrictions have been made from the conditions I have passed here on residences, apartment houses, and contract agreements. When it comes to living in a home, a person may be considered in the rented home, although he has a home elsewhere in Iceland, he may have a temporary residence for study, illness, rehabilitation of a retirement home or a job away from a lawhouse. It is possible to find a similar minimum in the law of rent care, but it is suggested that the exception also includes those living in separate homes, in view that under law on law, there is no way to have a legal home in a home. This should help those staying in residence homes to be paid for subsidies on their expenses. This is an important change in my opinion. It is also permitted to provide housing on the basis of an apartment housing facility where the partner has temporary residences due to a job working away from a home to up to three years of age. Here, too, is another important change. There is a new word in the bill, which I think is very marked by a step that when parents or guardians of children do not live together, their children can be considered to be members of both homes, for the child spends a minimum of 30 days a year in the home. This is an exception to the principle that each person can be counted only in a single apartment home at any given time. Will parents, or guardians who do not live together, have the added support for children who live with both parents and guardians. This is what I think reflects the change in society, the order that has become, when people understand the primary majority of parents share custody or care for their children. It is very important in my opinion that even if legal registration is possible for both parents or guardians, it is possible to have a good home for their children. This is not a follow-up of proposals made by a working group that had improvements in housing and the future project management of housing matters, since they thought that we should stick to the common care of parents in order for the rule to be appropriate. I believe that it is natural to see a parent's relationship with his child rather than his or her prowess. There must be a contract to be made on the basis of which the businessman has confirmed under child law or the County Court's decision to treat with the same law. Then the child can be counted to a man in the home of two parents or to a guardian. Then, despite the conditions of the bill on residence, for example, the rights to housing reform are to be taken into account when living together as a result of social conditions involving people who are disabled in housing procedures according to the laws on disabled persons's affairs, relatives' homes, or students' partnerships at boarding homes or schools that are associated with established educational institutions. It will thus be allowed to provide housing payments for the cost of housing in such cases as renting a single room in which part of the space is a common home, e.g. when sharing a kitchen or cooking position. From the year 2001 onward, this provision has been available in the rent - care system for the flats of disabled persons in special homes and in student living quarters or parks, but it is recently recommended that the enforcation be also extended to members of the home where there are people living, as it is common to rent in individual rooms. It is also suggested that there may be a right to improve housing, although there is no plagiarable contract for renting an apartment house owned by a state, a community, or a community entirely owned by a state or a community. A similar waiver has been in the rental system since 1997. So the bill suggests that this ensign will also be given to students in a room or in a apartment or in a park or in a school park, a simple reciprocation of contracts with students in dormitories and parks. In this regard, about 1,100 contracts are renewed annually at the student Social Services, which has adopted a new and more efficient system where contracts are reimbursed electronically. Thus, students living in a dormitory or a university park will not need to announce a new contract every time the contract is renewed, which is generally made during each course of study in order to have the right to improve housing. It is then suggested that this entitlement will be extended to those who are entitled to be granted the rights to preserve the use of apartment property sold for up to 12 months on the basis of a special warrant on forced sales and housing laws, as suggested by the bill I have submitted to this council, and there will also be specific laws on the property laws. This warrant includes temporary use of an apartment facility sold together with this bill, and only through tolerance but in the bill to legalise the change of rents and the law of housing partnerships that I have submitted with this bill is expected to have transfused access to depositors and tenants who have houses for their own use in forced sales. As for tolerance, it is proper to state that rent agreements have not been made temporary by the use of forcedly sold apartment property and have thus not been entitled to rent settlements, as one of the requirements of rent - rent rights is to have a judicial contract. Thus, this release can be met with those who pay temporarily for the use of a retailable estate, whether of a worker, tenant, or a farm owner, for which it is in fact the value of rent pay. It is expected that the restricted will also be extended to those living in separate homes. Thus many changes in government housing support are being made to tenants that I believe are very important to provide support to lower tenants in view of the difficult conditions they face in the housing market. I believe that renters have the right to have like government housing support, as do those living in their own homes or camps, so that the people of the country have a real choice of farm shapes and are secure in housing, in accordance with their individual needs. The bill for repairing housing is an important factor in doing so. I would also like to mention here whether there is something that needs to be considered for the future, even though this bill does not suggest whether it is normal for housing workers to be built up in housing partners in the future rather than for the growth system. It may be as if a project management project on the future housing arrangements suggested that we have one system, but while we have a growth reform system that, in my opinion, encourages too much in debt, we need to see if living conditions in housing communities should be known under the housing system rather than by the growth system. In this regard, I would like to point out that it is important for a housing partnership to be able to cover their overall budget of living under a home environment, rather than at financial cost for a suitable apartment. So I have submitted a General bill to legalize the law of housing partnerships where companies are expected to manage their business in this way. If this change in the law of housing partnerships is made, it may be expected that interest costs and after an incident with a farmeer's loan he has taken to buy on farm rights will be more likely to reflect the amount of housing paid to each other than the financial interest paid by the partner enterprise itself because of the commitments of the society. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. For treatment of health committees.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u171	V.E.G. President. I'll start by saying thank you to the highest. Minister for this speech. I may not be coming up directly to answer, but I'm coming to celebrate, in short, the fact that the bill is being passed. I was assigned to a project on the future structure of a bill based on the bill. What a joy it is to see such things as hard work and extensive consultation! That's what happened to us. Councilmen and citizens of the country on the bill. What I want else is that we are, like, the highest. A minister pointed out, to increase substantial support to smaller tenants. This is in accordance with what the government has planned for housing. What is very important is that different forms of living are being balanced. This is especially important, as mentioned in the Sermon on the Mount. Ministers, because tenant tenants have grown dramatically. The cost of renters has increased over the past few years, so it is very important to balance support between these systems so that tenants sit at the same level as those who have their own housing. That's really good. We can see that in 2008, 12.9% of rent - rent homes were available, but recent figures show up to 20.8%, so I'm just really glad that it's done. The matter will then be taken up for good and material work on the Senate welfare committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u172	A respectable president. I appreciate the word of the senator. What has also been presented many times in the matter of the day. paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir is how important, understandable - this evening, three cases are being measured, one case is in the presence of a welfare committee - that these matters are taken together as a whole, their interaction, and the effect of these great projections. What we're trying to achieve is to create a new system, a system that hopefully will. A senator here spoke of equal support between different settled forms. Of course, this bill is part of the government's contribution to collective agreements. We continue to contribute to the support of those who, for example, rely on progress through the government or from the rural communities but also to those who are most wealthy in the labour market, with the lowest income, so that they also have the opportunity to get the support they could get if they had their own housing and had borrowed money to earn it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u173	V.E.G. President. It's like the highest. According to a minister, it is very important, as I have also mentioned in many of the talks I have brought on the matter of housing at the council, that we look at the picture of the four primary facilities that will likely be following tonight's discussion with the welfare committee. It is particularly important that all these bills be fulfilled so that everyone has real choice of farm shapes, whether they want to be in a rented market, in his own house, or in the middle of a journey, and living in a housing partnership, as one of the bills that are now being paid for. The welfare committee is about. We're talking about increased housing support. I'd like to remind you, it's a very positive thing. Councilmen and the highest. Ministers approved in a vote this morning for rent income and reduced taxes on rent income, which is very important, too, for increased housing costs. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u174	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. Hv. One senator noted that we had stressed the making of two things, increasing the supply, and strengthening the demand side. The quality of the house is about strengthening the demand side. On the other hand, we have two other cases that appear in the budget bill and the revenue of a financial minister who supports the forward side. It is our hope, as indicated in the context data with the bill on the general apartments, that it will jointly lead to an increase in the number of apartments and at the same time to decrease rent. I think it is also very important to pay close attention to the reduction in capital taxes and housing benefits that lead to those in need and not to increase rent that is one of the things that have been mentioned and concerned about. However, it is very important in my opinion that we do both, expand the offer, and support the demand side of the tenants themselves. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u175	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister of Harðardóttir Hardydó for her story. It was a little fast. There was a little package to take over, because it's a big bill. I hope to the highest. The minister respects it to me that it's been a long time here, and it's been quite a while. There are some things I would like to ask the highest. Minister for. First as the highest. Minister and minister. paritaprevir Elsa Lára Arnardóttir talked about here at the end, i.e. the concerns that have been heard about whether or not something will be done to improve housing. I'd like to ask the minister to come in a little bit better to see if there's any action and then who they are. There's another question I'd like to ask, and there may be a change in other laws, i.e. of 32. Regarding rural income and community service legislation. It has been so that Reykjavík does not pay special rent payments to people even if he meets the income limit if he is renting in social facilities, such as to form with Emesthes, the House Fund of the Corn Coalition. Has this person been checked into his work regarding these changes? Did they discuss in the discussion with the local communities whether this would change? Some rural groups pay Emess mortgages, while others, such as Reykjavík, do not. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u176	A respectable president. For that matter, the discussion of raising rent was one of the factors. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter mentioned, that I think this summer, that she was concerned about the rise we've seen in rented houses, and asked if there is a possibility of recording similar rules as we know in Denmark regarding some kind of roof of rent. The same has been done in Germany. We especially went to Danmerk to the Danish Department of Homemaking to go through the rules that Danir has. It provided details. It is evident that adding laws that are designed to increase the misunderstanding greatly increases. Other measures, then, are needed to make sure that this is sufficient. That's why I'm so happy that tonight I'm allowed to measure for the bill on the general apartments. I think it's a very large and important step to ensure that there's a good supply for social housing. We have a very long wait list when it comes to social housing. It is important that we create a future system that will continue to add the resources we have for social living. It's the type of society that gets fired on the basis of public health issues where rent costs are just the expense of society's business and loans. It also becomes evident in the calculations that the changes we are now making on the housing reform system are key to achieving our objective, the declaration that the payment rate of the tenants will not be greater than 203/425% of income. We need this interaction, these changes here, so we can reach our goals. [[The president calls.]] Then there's something else I've also wondered about, and that's one of the things I'm trying to do, i.e. to ensure more transparency at the rent prices so that there is more information to it, including social housing that may not have been... [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u177	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. It's nice to know that there was at least something checked here and went to Denmark to check the system there. Sometimes a system needs to be complex either in order to reach its goals or in order to be reasonable. I would like to include in the discussion that a complex system does not necessarily have to be bad if it serves its purpose. But because of the highest. In his first reply, a minister did not get over it in return to answer to the specific rents and farms, and perhaps preferably Reykjavík, who does not pay special mortgages for disability, I ask: Did they consider something with this bill's contract?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u178	A respectable president. In terms of the special rent payments, or the housing support they can bring in in in addition to the services they provide through social services, the bill is not specifically involved. It has been so that each member of the community has, in fact, been able to establish rules that are about to be supported. I hope to come back up with a bill that has to do with the so-called criteria or the social help factor. We're trying to take steps to better define and frame the rules that apply to forward assistance. That's one of the things I think it's also necessary to look into an overall review of social services, i.e. whether or not we are increasingly going to set clear rules for the development services provided by our communities. [[The president calls.]] It shows that there are different ways in the North countries, but this bill does not specifically address it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u179	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by wishing to the highest. The social and housing minister is truly happy to have these four cases brought into the council. This could have happened earlier in my opinion, but it is certainly a source of joy and satisfaction for all of us. Now, there's very detailed financial reviews with these bills. It identifies four factors that the Ministry combines as criticism. First, they feel that an agreement has not been made regarding the change in budgets for rural funds for the funding of the existing rent - rent system and needs to be covered. They believe that changes are being made where people need to go to two administrative points to obtain special housing and, on the other hand, special housing. They criticize it. That's a little tricky, all right. Third, they feel that as home income increases, the increase in rent payments will be relative. This is not in harmony with the goal of the bill. Then, fourth, they feel that there is no difference between payment from the rent system and the growth reform system on the rise. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to what she will answer to this financial criticism.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u180	A respectable president. Like what? A senator points out that the cost of the Ministry of finance is very thorough regarding this bill. As far as 17 pages are concerned, that is exactly what is involved. In terms of comments on the budget of the rural community or the financial resources that can be said to be left in view of this in the community, it is our conclusion that if you think that there is a reason to change the money that goes to the rural community, it is something that falls under the other department. It's the State Department that deals with the local government and then the Ministry of finance itself, which has led to discussions about the exchange of income between state and rural society. However, it can also be noted that in the general apartment bill, there are frames and regulations in the law that rural society should bring up to 12% of the population, which has not been legalized in the same way as it is being done. In some respects, they may be able to cope with the extra cost that comes in there. But that is not specifically discussed in this review. In view of the criticism of two administrative points, what will be called a special rent payment is in my mind for forwarding aid. In any case, people need social services and support, if they are looking for support from the local community. There is no change in this. Here we are talking about general support for housing costs, the other is social assistance. Of course, they consult the local community if they need social assistance. I get to the third and fourth act as a boy. A senator named in my second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u181	V.E.G. President. The review of the Ministry of finance is very thorough and very good in many respects, but it also makes you feel a bit of opposition. Now that rent payments have not raised anything in this terms-of-the-art period, and the bill will obviously not take effect on January 1 but say that we could handle it fast and well on the committee and get it out, if we have the support for it, I have two slightly different questions that matter to each other. On the one hand: Does a minister think that he has the full support of the Independence Party to handle some of these matters from his council in advance? And how long does it take for a new system to start shunning when the law is approved? [[The president calls.]] These changes do not occur overnight, but do you know how much time it takes to start the system after the law has been approved at the Council?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u182	A respectable president. I thank you again for the questions. Regarding the third factor identified, the increase relative to those with higher income is simply because they had no rights so far. There will be a major difference between the growth reform system and the rent system, people who have had much more right to interest if they have had their own housing and are in debt, and thus they have been motivated by debt. On the other hand, when it comes to people who have been in the rented market, they have received little or nothing. It may be adding 1,000Ks, 4,000 dollars, an additional one for a month's compensation, and leaving zero to this amount is in percent higher than any who have had full support in the rent system. Of course, the amount of money is always highest to those with the smallest amount of income and the smallest of possessions. About this difference. The difference is that those who are in the rented market, the reason they receive additional support, as the socialists tell us, and the Habitat statistics: The people in the tenet are simply less affordable. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It makes less money. They are more likely to live in poverty. As a result, they have the right to support more than those in... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u183	A respectable president. In the beginning of my speech, I want to express joy that the bill is being arranged for a discussion and that it can be measured, and given to the committee and for discussion. We've been waiting for a long time for a collection of rent payments and housing improvements. Work on this has lasted a very long time, so to speak, the lung of the last terms and all these terms. It's very important that we see this bill coming up for discussion. When you look over the bill, there are some things I would like to stop by and mention. There are a lot of things that look for improvement. I specifically mention, from now on, the new rule that children are counted as members of the household of members of the house as well as parents of one's parents or both parents in the event of shared custody. This is in harmony with today's demands. But when you look at the index based on it, you have to wonder if you will consider the extra cost of household management with children. It is now this way in the growth reform system, if I recall correctly, that it contains the index for a single parent with a child of 1.5 and 2 for a married couple with a child. In many cases, therefore, it has been necessary to do better with single - parent families. In other words, there is very little difference between housing needed for a married couple or a single parent. More than that, it may be the number of children who have the size of the house. It is also possible to wonder why, in view of today's lack of housing, especially for students, the housing may not be covered by individual rooms. Whether or not there is a law to specificize it. With regard to the question of raising rents, which is much discussed in the financial financial expenses, it is reliable that rents cannot be prevented from raising something following a change, such as the ones expected here. But that, of course, is their goal in increasing the supply of rented homes, perhaps the most important result. Also, from the expense report, a strong criticism can be made that a larger portion of the new housing is going to increase the income of the individual. It seems to me that a certain lack of understanding of the quality of the housing reforms that were always meant to be more like growth reforms and to meet people other than mere underpayers. On the other hand, you wonder about the context of the procedure to bring home-change bill, which includes bringing the support up the income ladder, while a financial minister is in good care not to add sums to the growth reform system, so there is always going down and down in income levels. Finally, I wanted to kill my community's role in this new setting, which I find somewhat vague. The expense report correctly states that the duties of a community are not deemed responsible to provide special housing. However, the analysis of the impact on rural society refers to an estimated 800 billion. K. expenses for rural society. I guess that's just some of them. Maybe I'd like to direct one question to the highest level. Minister, i.e. In what ways it will be ensured that rural communities will generally provide the support of a special addition to housing. Because I fear that there will be a continuation of what has been observed so far, that some rural communities prefer simply not to offer any special rent, as has been done in the past in various rural communities, and there they come with the welfare burden and supply a burden to neighboring communities. We need to put an end to such segregation policies between rural communities here in the capital area. Perhaps the key question would be, How does a minister support the development - it is stated in the report that such negotiations with the local community - the duty of the community to provide special housing? Finally, I want to reiterate the satisfaction that this bill is being given. It's rich and well-worked, it looks to me, in every respect. It'll be fun to deal with it here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u184	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Páll the Árnason of Athenian before his speech I think it's important to bear in mind that we're here to create a new housing system. We're not adding the amount into the present system. We're creating a new system of thinking. For example, what has been criticized by the present system is that in the current rent - rent system, there is too much work to provide for children, especially for single parents. Here, however, we look for ways to create a family - care system. We have seen that sometimes it has been a serious blow for families who have had much child support through the system, that at the age of 18, their parents will lose their benefits, but their children continue to be with them and living there. That certainly ought to be the case. Most children have two parents, and both parents are to continue to be responsible for the advancement of their children regardless of whether their parents live together or not. Here is a new provision to make a living because it is the real cost of living as a parent. Then, rent on individual rooms. We went back and forth to whether we should do something about criticism, since she was one of the major points that were taken up in the discussion process in our time. However, our conclusion is that it is important to maintain a certain threshold for housing quality. It's basically the thought behind this. On the other hand, I think, because it has been specifically pointed out for students in a public tenet, that we, in turn, have to increase the number of academic apartments in our students' communities to be comparable to what we know in other parts of the North countries. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u185	A respectable president. Thank you for the minister's good answers. She just couldn't answer everything I asked, so I'm going to give her a chance to say again, but that's all I have to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u186	A respectable president. It is not that by this bill, we are somehow affecting the contributions to the rural community, but we have more to do with these changes, as the Ministry's review shows, and only the comments of the local community have been made. It is also, of course, in accordance with the Community policy of making this change in this way. We hope, too, that for the future we can have one housing system for the cost of living. About 30 societies, I don't have an accurate number, have special housing support. Then all the largest rural society has that arrangement. We don't have, and there's no suggestion in the bill to set specific rules about the extraction. That's one of the reasons I think we should consider a change in social services law. But it's not suggested in this bill, so it actually turns on creating a new system, i.e. support for housing costs, but not for further support. We have also emphasized the importance of protecting our rural development to shape their own policies on how they support them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u187	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to set up a general apartment. The primary objective of the bill is to contribute to the security of the country in accordance with its individual needs and, in turn, the increased bioavailability of the consumers to safe and appropriate rent housing and that housing costs are in line with the potential payment of the tenants. The bill contains the so-called general apartment and the activities of a general apartment partner who is supposed to carry the purchase or building, holding and managing the affairs of public apartments. It's an apartment intended to reduce the memory of tenants. It also discusses how the government's support and standards for renting will be adapted because of public housing and the rules for their distribution. As noted in my case regarding the QA bill, the issues we recommend today are the measures taken by the Iceland Government to cover contracts in the general labour market, as per the Government's declaration from 28 May 2015. The declaration includes measures on 11 areas of tax and welfare, including housing and public financial benefits. The second feature of the declaration is specifically about housing matters and is published as a guide for the bill. It shows that the government of Iceland commits in cooperation with the European Union and the labour market organisations to provide an improvement in the conditions for building a housing market. It must be added that the people have improved their choice of farm shapes and that they have more security for housing in accordance with individual needs, especially low income families. It is declared that the European Union's Government will initiate consultations with the European Union, Reykjavíkurburg and other rural areas along with the labour market partners with the aim of increasing the number of cost and cost apartments, supporting rent markets, supporting the purchase of the first apartment and ensuring additional opportunities for an apartment building that is further determined in the declaration. They take the lead in improving the interests of less - income families and young people in a housing market. Thus, small income families, which so far did not have an opportunity for an apartment in the local community's social system, will be granted access to cheap and safe rented living conditions. It says that there will be a laid groundwork for a new social tenet system that will be funded by the founding of state and rural enterprises and by direct growth of the state's financial payments, at the cost of 30%. In general, such contributions by state and rural society should lead to renting a person with low incomes that do not exceed a higher proportion of each income. According to the declaration, those who are going to be able to obtain the laid - up income will become communities, communities, or nonprofit partnerships, with long - term goals to build, own, and oversee rent - house management. However, those who are going to be able to rent these materials must be under certain limits of income and property. It is said that they have to be in the lowest two income-fives when they are introduced, but people are not required to move out when they are established for these revenues, and that the same priorities for the local community will remain for their clients, the clients of social services, and the same will apply to academic camps, and that there will be no change. However, there will be further priorities in the implementation of housing for people in the labour market, particularly looking to children's families and households for significant financial problems, and rules must be set on how the total number of registered social households will be divided between different target groups and executives. The declaration also specifically states that the provision and sale will be limited. As mentioned in my case, this bill suggests that a new tenure type will be established, known as the general apartment society, who will be fired in the form of auto-employed institutions. On the other hand, we are not starting to reach zero, but we have powerful communities that have been carrying out these tasks. So it is suggested in the bill that rural communities, tenants owned by their owners, and communities who have received the so - called 3.5% of social rent loans from the Substitute Bank can also obtain stock contributions. The bill suggests that the people I mentioned could get stock contributions from the government and rural society, which rounded up 30% of the general population of the apartment to contribute to the availability of rented stores at high prices for those who need them. The establishment of the State refers to a contribution of 18% of the stocks of a common apartment that the camp loan fund provides in the form of direct forwards or with wax pay. Candidates can thereby apply for direct financial support or for financial support to the amount of funds that the person earns. The country's founding enterprise refers to a donation of 12% of the total value of buildings. For example, a local company's growth may be in the form of land or corrosion of punitive taxes or other tax paid for rural society. It is expected that the rent level of general apartments should be determined to allow rent income to depend on all costs of their business and funding, including the property and partnerships of the public apartment and the financial payments that the company is expected to provide according to the bill, such as the Social Work Fund. One of the main objectives of the bill and one of the major innovations, which were put on by the partners of the labour market, is that we are creating a social system, a new system, a system that is to become, in time, sustainable. This arrangement is to create a permanent law, regardless of the budget decided by the General, or rural, to set aside on a project each time to ensure such housing. To achieve this goal, it is expected that, after loans received from the institutions of the state and rural society to finance general dwellings, the share of rents that exceed the general financial expenses of the society at any one time in a fund referred to here as housing fund. In this arrangement, similar to what has been practiced in Denmark for decades, the plan is to build up a fund that will come to be paid up to create both a government and a community for the future. This is not to be done until a few decades later when a loan taken in the years that have been paid up. With this convention, it is planned that the general building system will gradually become sustainable, so that the tenants themselves will maintain the system and ensure that apartments will continue to grow and that the money that will be inserted will actually contribute to maintaining the system, but not as we have seen happening, since the valuables or social resources that have become available in a system will somehow go out of it and we will stop expanding the number of apartments and stop looking at the time that are certainly families who need this support. The bill does not expect to change the criteria for income and property limits for social apartments. They are the same as the criteria have passed through food, including food. ESA, so they are in line with the role of the government when it comes to the so - called public role in an apartment market. So it's going to be the same income and property limits and it's now at 3.5% interest in the social housing loans. These subsidies will be replaced by this subsidized interest at an apartment loan fund. As a result, the government's support is no longer conditional in borrowing from an apartment loan fund. Those applying for financial contributions are self-imbursed where they receive money from other people than the government's institutions. They can come from an apartment loan fund, for an apartment loan fund continues to be authorized to lend loans to a partner at the same rate as it generally does. However, the banks can, and that has truly been shown, offer a competitive advantage in this respect. It may also be considered that a loan would come through a local bank bank account or in a bond package. In fact, there is no provision for financing other aspects of the system. This arrangement, like what happened. Congress officials hear, rely heavily on the role model of dance. It is based on the so - called 'Lialmen' Bolig-Bolig-Smooth legislation in Denmark, from which it comes in general apartments and local communities. We're building the bill on Dana's experience where they've managed to maintain a self-sustaining system that has passed and has survived and, no matter what governments have been involved in the government of the country, we have survived and continued to exist. Whether we're talking about right, left, or center, they've considered the arrangement to be the foundation of the social housing system. The contents of the bill are largely based on the proposals of the project management and a team on the future housing. In those groups, representatives from both countries and rural groups as well as major stakeholders in the labour market were represented. I'd also like to say here that this bill is employed in a very extensive consultation. We make a great deal of effort to consult with the Ministry when it comes to the processing of the situation, but this case is quite different in this regard. It can be said that almost every sentence, every paragraph, and certainly every article has been taken back and forth in the consultation group involved in housing, where the stakeholders involved in a collective agreement had place and the Union of Icelandic rural society. I want to take this opportunity to thank them for a lot of work on this matter. It is my hope that, when the proposals of the bill are implemented, the oer at the cost of rent living will increase, the cost of housing by smaller tenants will decrease, thus contributing to the greater security of the citizens and increased housing stability. I also hope that this new system will be given time to grow, thrive, and develop that eventually leads to the sustainable system so that there will be a strong and stable housing market for every family, not just some families, but all families. The bill is detailed. Various analyses follow the bill, such as calculation of its founding initiatives and its economic impacts and other measures proposed to this conference on the housing market, which have been derived from the Analytica advisory company. It also discusses the payment flows and plans on the scope of the housing fund and various scenarios in this regard, how long it will take to build the fund. Of course, assessments of the impact on the economy of rural society and the costs are discussed. Then there's a detailed review from the Ministry of Financial Affairs. There are two things I would like to specifically mention and ask the welfare committee to consider in the context of another outstanding financial cost. Part of the declaration is that both direct contributions and wax pay will be made. Certain criticisms come from the Ministry of finance, which focuses on the wax pay and its arrangements. I think it's appropriate that the committee carefully reviews those comments. Of course, we will provide all the necessary information in this regard. Since then, comments have been made regarding the housing budget itself. Since the fund will have very little activity for a relatively long time, our plans do not assume that high costs are associated with the fund. On the other hand, the fund is controlled in a way that allows the State to have only one ruler. The reason is that there are laws on the possibility of the state and community that require reimbursement from the Buddies or from the general apartments on the founding process. The types of donations that may enter the housing budget will come primarily from the system itself, from those living in the system's apartments. As a result, we did not see a reason why the government is more important to fund management than others, in fact, to create the system, which is the rural, professional, and labor movement, i.e. The deputies. Then there is a question about the payment when they begin to arrive, whether they may have to go through the funds of the state. I don't think so, but the fees will go right into the fund. It's not going to belong to the government. On the other hand, of course, the laws and regulations that we are going to set will be followed. This is something I know that the committee will be very comfortable and look at the other reasons for it. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The welfare committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u188	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for her speech. This is about a lot of interesting and exciting bill. I thought it would be good to hear it as the highest. Minister said, about the great consultation that had been made with the bill. I have to say, I'm looking forward to seeing the reviews the bill will get because it's about a lot of exciting subjects. But, like, the highest. A minister came into his speech, there are things to consider. I noticed that the highest. A minister spoke of the importance of security in the land, and I agree with it. She spoke of apartments for less tenants and, in fact, especially of low - income young people who have no place in social living. That's what I want to ask the highest. Minister a little closer, as far as 18th paragraph goes. It says, by permission of the president: To meet the needs of the population, each individual should be prepared and implemented in order to be acceptable. In my opinion, it's a pretty hairy term and I'd like to ask about whether there's a beat on the bioavailability demand here. It says that the apartments are ready and implemented, but what about building? Is it possible to get stock donations to build apartments with the demand for bioavailability? V.E.G. A minister himself said that the place should be for all families, not just summer. I think it's very important to ask more questions in that regard because some families are so that they rely heavily on access.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u189	A respectable president. Of course, Denmark also has general apartments for disabled people. Two. discusses definitions, and it says about rural housing: ▪ Camp housing as rural areas and is intended for those with special legal requirements to provide relief for housing, such as disability or mental status, or for which they are not otherwise able to provide for housing because of low income, heavy living loads, or other social conditions. In an explanation of the budget, there was an excellent proposal from what happened. And I think it is very important that those who are concerned about the housing of people with mental health care, or people who live in other types of disability, go over the bill because it should apply to them as are the other groups mentioned here. In 1st. According to one reference work, if a rented apartment is affordable, it should be possible for those who need it, including students, young people, elderly, disabled people, and people who are not able to provide for housing because of social conditions or significant financial problems. A recent meeting with the rural community is a final agreement on the translocation of disabled persons, but the report in the Project Management reports that this is the general system that is involved in the building of the apartment itself. However, the thought is that we can use the funds that went into the equation fund to build a special position and other means of access and the extra expenses that may be due to housing in this regard. But this is where we watch building houses and buying homes as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u190	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for this answer, and I believe it is very important that this vision of the Minister be made clear. However, I would like to say that not all disabled people need a special access, and it really is just a small part of disabled people. That's why I think it's very important to protect the interests of this small group because while it is referred to as thinking that disabled persons can always be spoken of by another group. But I trust the Minister has an understanding of the need to look after this. I'm just wondering, so I'm pointing it to what I'm doing. the welfare committee to consider whether it may be necessary to strengthen the wording of Article 18. I would like to remind you that this is a work of the highest order. Governments instigating the UN Convention on the Rights of Infirm People, 9 states: c., a bioavailability product, not to take measures to eliminate barriers and barriers that inhibit access, including construction and housing. I just wanted to remind you of this article and encourage the highest. Minister as well as any. a welfare committee to make sure that living quarters will be secure so that the rights of those in some way may be difficult to deal with are guaranteed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u191	A respectable president. I thank you again for the answer. We stressed having 18th degree. as simple as possible. How important it is that these containers are as practical as possible to achieve our goal of keeping our rent low so that people can afford to live in their own house! It is also a key part of the United Nations Convention of Human Rights regarding the rights of disabled people, this right to independent life. This is the way to do it much faster than it was planned. At a meeting that I, the highest. The Minister of Industrial Affairs and Environmental Resources thought, under the headline 'How Valuable' ◯ Fast, I heard the representatives of the business groups of disabled people who were discussing it surprised them because they expected it would be about access. But the discussion was much more concerned with all other factors, how we can achieve the protection at the premises. There were many requirements and expectations for housing, such as being very large - it is not necessarily a key to building a large home to ensure access, and it has been seen in the design of a facility that Danir has been working on. For social development - this is true regardless of whether we are talking about the social system, property camps, farming, or living quarters - the cost is so important if the system is actually going to be able to live up to it. If people are actually to be able to pay off their housing, pay rent, or pay from loans, the initial expenses, especially with the high financial cost we have here in Iceland, are extremely important.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u192	A respectable president. I'm glad this bill is on and I'm glad to see it. I now know a lot of things that have been in progress for years in this process, and it's good to see it developed in this careful way. I'm particularly pleased with the idea of housing funds. I think a treasure collection in this system is important, but the problem is that we Icelanders have always found it very difficult to see some money in peace that makes up property somewhere, and that was the weakness of the construction system, that they decided to eat it or give it to the people who lived in the system. I think this idea of a housing fund controlled by the labour market and the government as a team makes sense because we have recently had experience in the economic breakdown that it would be very useful for us to have members of the labour market as the responsorts of the pension system. I am convinced that if the government alone had taken over the pension system in the collapse, the pressure to eat the pension system would have been unbearable to numb the pain of the collapse for political power. So I think it's a pretty interesting idea and I'm ready to keep looking at it. I also think it's very important to make this promise, although there's certainly a long way in which the system will become self-sustained, well up to 2050, when we have to grow up here in the audience, there's still some vision that we can build a sustainable system.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u193	A respectable president. This may have been one of the articles that took the longest time to reach and see who was the mind behind it. This fund is, in my opinion, a top priority on the value of ensuring the future sustainable development and that we may change our thinking to go into a special conflict every few decades about the structure, rather that the system actually accepts it gradually and takes care of it itself. We've seen, though we've been through a lot of things here, that this has worked in Iceland. It has worked to build a pension rights for us beyond what most other countries have done. We see that much, for example, of the aid of the disease goes through the unions, into their medical fund. They have been very powerful in training adults. The latest project has been the labor fund, and we are seeing significant results in the growth of disability, a change in the percentage increase between 2005 and 2006, but what we have seen today, despite the 2008 economic losses we have experienced. So I think this is exactly something that should be in full harmony with that emphasis, but of course we come to a decision about how much money we put each year after the four years. We have generally been supporting, on the average, since the apartment loan fund was set up for about 250 apartments, and if that is enough. It will then be the foundation upon which housing funds will be based, the contributions from that apartment will come in time, as mentioned here, after a few decades into this fund. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u194	A respectable president. I would like a later answer to discuss only the cost of the financial Ministry, which is now political and economically entirely out to drive when it comes to the statement that from a economic point of view it is generally not considered appropriate to have much interference or to take important action in a housing market. To be honest, I don't really know exactly where there are centuries of people who write these things, but there's no way that there's an experience in northern Europe in the last 100 years, this is a yes. On the other hand, perhaps it's time to walk 10 on Friday night, that it may be comforting to say that all of these matters have been delayed, as it also shows in the expense report that we've come a very long way in favour and are in the fifth year of economic growth and probably at the beginning of the trial period, so you can only hope that this will take about a year to complete this. This means that you will then be ready to go on construction projects, because then, of course, the system is ready, just when you have to stimulate the economy again at the end of that time. Of course, in all seriousness, it is not possible to look from such a brief perspective on the extent of a major system change. The fact is, it is quite simply that the workers'farm system, which was on the side of the 1927◯1999, was extremely effective, and in it a collection of enormous values, which were essentially destroyed and, of course, may take the same long time to rebuild similar social value. This cannot be viewed from time to time on as a basis for the economy.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u195	A respectable president. What we're talking about is, for example, that what we saw in Denmark right after the world's bank crash was that those who continued on the front of the bar at the time of the crash in Denmark before 2008, they were communities trying to help build a suitable apartment and cover the cost of living. We also saw the construction of the labor - farm system back then, that they were pioneers trying to build the most suitable facilities. It has been this way in recent years that, preferably what has gone up for us, is for the housing team. I would now think that we could certainly be some of the inflation pressure by increasing the cost of more efficient apartments and other projects, as we are also going to focus on, to reduce the cost further. I would also like to point out that in many ways I agree that the market can do much better, but so does the public. However, the market cannot care for the social aspects of the housing system. We've tried in one country after another. There, the public service of the government is so important. We're talking about clear income and property targets, whatever it is we're going to consider in this system. This isn't for everyone, although we're talking about general apartments, but there are people who have mentioned Iceland that we've come to support, and they've done it, I think, in almost every Western state that wants to be with the welfare system and that's the thought behind this system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u196	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a change in rent. I submitted the bill to the last legislation, and this second time it was submitted. The bill, like anything I recommend here tonight, is based on a report on a future housing project and a government declaration in connection with housing operations. A report by the Management Board indicated that rent law would be reviewed with the aim of trusting rent management and promoting rent - rent resources. Then it was emphasized that the proposals of a team working with the project management would be guided by these changes. We have also considered comments from various sources, including those who made their comments. At this time, the World Health Committee for the spring when the Committee had a joint bill for treatment. We have carefully considered those comments and have tried to take them into account as far as possible, although it is clear that they were not all possible. The proposals of the cooperation group and the project management can be said to reflect recommendations to strengthen both tenants and landlords. As a result, it is often difficult to meet differing viewpoints from these stakeholders. However, the primary objective is to increase the legal security of tenants, including the renting of apartments to certain groups, such as students, elderly and desperate people, at the same time as putting emphasis on renting homes is free contracts between landlords and landlords. However, the tenure law is intended to establish that agreement a specific frame. It refers not only to renting houses but also to rent housing in general, which is then for a long period of time. In order to improve the security of the court, I feel that it is very important that the general size of this minimum will be severed in Article 2. The tenure and the authority to deviate from other undisputed laws of the law when renting houses to certain groups such as students, elderly ones, and desperate people. When the bill was presented at the General legislation of the last legislature, this bill received the greatest criticism without making clear in the entire discussion what the law might have for the tenants. It was heard loudly in landlords and even went so far as to say that the entire bill would be of little benefit without further support. In this regard, I would like to stress that the rent law has minimum rights to law for the tenants of an apartment building and, in the same way, a maximum duty. The law thus assumes that rent - house rights will not be sullied or that their duties will be increased by special arrangements in a contract with landlords. This allows only to negotiate on increased rights and less obligation to rent an apartment building as recommended in the law. It is therefore a principle of rent-in-the-house law that the laws of the law are irreverent to the renting of an apartment house unless one is specifically stated about its individual aspects. This has been true of tenants in a large part of Icelandic tenants. In order to give such extensive permission to deviate from tenures, where, in fact, a single landlord is assigned to pronounce one - sided a release from the law, and even if the law actually applies only to a small extent, the question of whether we need such laws comes to mind. In my mind, this is an important consumer protection in which renters are being guaranteed the rights of tenants and especially with those renting homes for employment. Must also ensure that this protection applies to every group of society, perhaps especially to those who may be able to compromise negotiations of the kind of agreements involved in the law. This figure assumes that the change in 3mg will be made. 2.g. The housing laws that the general provisional authority in the bill will only include in-house homes that are operating as operating homes, with the goal of contributing to the rehabilitation of individuals most of whom have been in a treatment or rehabilitation facility or in prison. The special purpose and operation of a unit feel justified by divulging property laws through contracts as necessary to achieve the target of the work. Then, on the basis of the grammatical reasons that I believe to justify such an abnormality, individual anomalies from the more specific laws of the law are expected. In this way, it is suggested that a special release from certain legal requirements for landlords who are not paid for profit. As an example, when tenants of the divorced tenants no longer meet the perennial and legitimate conditions imposed by landlords for rent houses in their behalf, tenants can cancel a contract with three months' notice, whether it is a temporary or an untimely contract. I don't think this is gonna be too much of a landlord's demand to cancel the contract with three months' notice. Also, there has been some based on the restricted rights of rent law to compromise the law's minimum notice, and the agreement that there is a period of notice in certain cases only one month. In such cases, the argument to recommend such a shameful notice has been that the provision of social rent has not been sufficient. Thus, the landlords as well as those who have not been able to reach the landlord's house because the supply of their rented house is not sufficient, rich interests by ensuring that their housing is reserved only for those who meet the requirements set out for rent - house distribution. This is not to say, however, that a rent contract is to be canceled because of the depositors'tenants'due to their contract duties, of course, where other views apply. It must be noted that finding a new home for the family and moving between places will always be a challenge, and it can become even more difficult when warnings are so brief. Most important, when moving from house to house, there may be difficulty in finding a new rented home for the family, as well as the fact that the social situation of these families has not generally collapsed, although the conditions for rent are no longer met. In my opinion, it is too much and too important to assume that tenants who rent from potential landlords are required to make their home available for a month's notice, and particularly in view of the fact that their circumstances have simply changed, for example, that they have dropped out of school or got higher income so that they no longer meet the social conditions. Therefore, I suggest that the notice in such cases be three months. The bill also aims to provide more specific instructions on how landlords and tenants should be administered at the length of a contract so that the law allows written messages to be sent electronically between parties, although it is common for people to use e - mails in their relationship with each other. Here, too, is a burning arrangement. We've been given repeated indications that burning defenses in rented housing seem to be rather lacking than fire protection in homes where owners themselves keep homes. In fact, it is strongly stated that, as it is actually obligatory today, adequate burn prevention under the law and regulations for burning prevention will become one of the conditions that must be met in rent care so that the condition of the user will be deemed sufficient at the start of rent period. It is also specifically stated that in all rented houses there is a smoke detector and a fire extinguishor. At the same time, tenants are expected to have to maintain burn prevention so that they are in good condition during rent time. There seems to be some misunderstanding in this regard, and I reiterate what I said earlier; this is not a new or increased demand for a firehouse. We do not demand for more employment. Rather, we are stressing that this is to be done. However, it is now assumed that in all rented houses there is a smoke detector and a fire extinguishor. These suggestions were in agreement with the Council of Fire, which includes representatives of the Manning Agency and Fire Council of the capital. It is suggested that the measures used by the tenant be coordinated as a contractor can handle when the condition of a tenant is considered insufficient, compared with the planned use of it, at the beginning of rent time and later during rent periods after renting. Although the consequences for tenants may be expected to be the same in both cases, at least It is similar, for example, that under current rent laws, there is a greater limit to renting on the part of a tenant because of neglect of maintenance than when there is insufficient conditions at the beginning of rent time. Here are also the changes we are making regarding the guarantees the landlord can demand. It has been found that there has been misunderstandings regarding the use of advance rents, and many have viewed it as a guarantee for the right use of rent contracts. Thus tenants have often paid their rent all the time of the contract and then had to demand a landlord to reimburse an advance as if it were insurance money. There are also tenants who believe that they are free to release rent payments during the contract, although there is an advance payment. In view of this, a change is proposed that only bail will be permitted, not in advance, although it will continue to demand rent rents for the first day of each month in advance of one month. The majority of renters are expected to be able to request a maximum amount of insurance at three months' rent. This may be a large sum of money, in view of the economic conditions of the local worker, which weighed on the interests of tenants and tenants on the other hand. If a depositor under the bill does not intend to make a bail claim, he should return it to tenants within four weeks of the last rent period instead of two months. It has to be estimated that there is enough time for a landlord to evaluate the condition of the rented housing at the same time and that a tenant will be able to afford the deposit even to pay bail on other contracts, to buy on farms, or to pay payment on apartment housing, which we know most tenants will talk about doing, i.e. to buy their own home. It is suggested that bail be guaranteed by a landlord's deposit. Rather, it is suggested that they carry interest for their payday. Finally, it is emphasized that insurance money is specialized in the possession of a landlord, and further recommendations are made to prohibit payment in terms of deposit during rent period, since it is not owned by landlords, but it is intended to provide bail for half tenants during the contract period. Here are also some new words that I would like to encourage the committee and others interested in this matter. It is recently suggested that a landlord, a professional depositor, is allowed to require a very modest payment on a landlord's insurance fee instead of standard insurance. It is thus assumed that the landlord will raise a special fund to cover the expenses that may be due to the deposit agreement of landlords and that the fee will be made to only a larger amount than 1 /10 of rent on the contract. This new option should be useful for tenants, since a previous estimate is that the price is very moderate. At the same time, landlords, at least larger tenants who have many tenants, should look to the advantage of applying this option, assuming that there is virtually no insurance control. Then, in the bill, it is also suggested that there be a distinction between the length of notice in terms of a person's renter and a landlord who is a professional hireling from house to house. The goal is to promote non-term contracts that can again lead to long - term rent rent. It is suggested that the rule of the law be removed that a period of notice from the landlord is one year when a tenant has rented an apartment for more than five years. Has it been a burden for individuals and helped to make a few temporary contracts and non-interrupted contracts to avoid the forbidden conditions. I believe, however, that other viewpoints apply to rural society and communities that rent out houses for employment, and that they are likely to have the goal of ensuring security in housing matters, the contract affords it. It is suggested that a period of notice on the part of such a landlord be 12 months when a tenant rented an apartment house for more than one year. This change, in particular, seeks to increase the legal security of tenants who rented houses for jobs. In terms of this law, if you are concerned about what is going on with the student camp, you will find it renewed every year, as shown in my speech about the improvements in your housing, so there should be no change in this regard. It is suggested that a room - to - room notice be replaced by three months. Is it clear that individuals are keeping homes in rooms and think it's an awful part of a person's ability to make room space for one month, and it often takes longer than one month to find a new apartment apartment or room? The bill has made significant changes in the role of a construction agent. They have played a significant role in the implementation of the assessments and assessments of rent declines as well as assessments of the need for repairs and costs. It has been noted that the role of a construction officer on the basis of rent is in line with the other laws that they have been given. In this regard, it must also be kept in mind that construction agents are local employees and have a specific role in keeping their roads in check. Most rural communities also own apartment houses that they rent out to individuals or families, and they run special tenants for that purpose. Thus, in many cases, rural communities have another hired contract for a building that is then assigned to the building manager, as well as may be assigned to resolve differences between rent agreements, where a community is, in fact, another member of the dispute. Here it is suggested that the construction of a community partner will no longer be entrusted with the implementation of rent houses, but it will be involved in the contract of a contract to agree on the assessment provider's work that is now expected to be carried out by its construction representatives. It must be remembered that rent agreements include an exclusive agreement between parties and that there are objective views that parties agree on how they choose to conduct these issues in the same way as in general with other comparable agreements. In addition, it is suggested that the costs for the employment of the applicant be clearly determined. It has been observed at the development of a future policy of housing criticism that public surveillance of the implementation of contracts at the Icelandic lease may not be sufficient. Thus, many have found that the role of a member of a local construction agency is a guide to some kind of official monitoring system in this regard and have made comments on the need to improve it rather than decompose it. As I mentioned earlier, those conflicting interests that occur in the construction agent's activities should continue to carry out the role entrusted to their rent, weighing more than the importance of their work as part of official surveillance by the Icelandic tenet. However, it is important that public rent surveillance is effective. Therefore, the bill suggests that the suitors of housing will be committed to a binding decision in the issues laid before the Commission on contracting contracts. In this regard other northern countries were viewed. It is also suggested that renter surveillance arrangements be changed and that a minister should only monitor that renters always meet the conditions set for permit. This will be the result of the lack of supervision expected in the current legal law in terms of renters'neglect or violations of rent rights. Then there is another new provision that wasn't on the bill when it came out, and I want to thank the State Department for good cooperation on that law. It is suggested that tenants be guaranteed comparable to the rights and owners of an apartment house sold under forced sale, such as the 6th issue of 1 mg. Twenty-eight. track No. 90/1191 on an overreaching sale, so that everyone remembers this article, with subsequent changes. It is thus assumed that, after some cases, we will be reassigned to an apartment house that the tenant has used for his own hire as a contract, he should be justified in holding out rent time, but never longer than 12 months from an offer offered against rent that would represent a judge's rent to a reasonable rent. So there is again an effort to ensure that tenants have some of the same positions as those who buy their home and then lose them. As has been attributed, this is a number of changes to the current tenures that I believe will be important in increasing the legal security of tenants. It may have been too common in Iceland to have a lack of respect for the rights of tenants who have affected their housing security. For example, the first thing I talked about is that while tenants who are renting to those who are in our society can avoid their contracts from the minimum legal protection. If some point is involved in the legal arrangements or the changes we make here that we feel are too taxing for these landlords, it is simply a law we should take out, because it must also be quite burdensome for other people who are under the law. This bill, in my opinion, is to improve the rights and rent status so that rent houses are an option, so that people already have a choice for farming. As a result, it is an important factor in making such a choice real. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to 2nd. ... andwhat. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u197	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Social and housing minister for the speech. This bill was discussed with the welfare committee. Celebrity. We almost finished it, but we decided to let it wait between the councils. It was not urgent, and there were certain factors that might be considered more carefully. I'm glad you're here. This will be a pleasant work for us. We were very good at this. It's nice to say that we'll have a meeting in the morning and send all these cases out for review, and then we'll start a full-time job with them in January. The hardest thing I had to do in my last talk, and it's still hard to deal with. Then we came to the right renters in Iceland. They have been relaxed over the years, and there has been widespread safety in housing. It's because of the lack of supply of housing from tenants. Now it is changing, and with the local rented bill it is also being replaced. It is hoped that the supply will increase because, on its own, the lack of housing also increases people's rights, for it is harder to move when others are not necessarily ready to move in. I wondered about this insurance policy, for now young people in Reykjavík, who are planning to rent a two - to - three - room apartment, have to make up up to half a million on insurance money at the same time as paying their first month of rent. You wonder if there are no ways to support people, since there is not everyone to contribute that kind of money, much less to bank responsibility when it comes to young people with little business history. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u198	A respectable president. It reminds me that one of the ideas that appeared at the work of a team of colleagues was in the process of considering some kind of fund or responsibility that had to do with these guarantees. Our conclusion, as I went to my talk, had to create additional documents that turned to insurance so that a landlord could create an insurance deposit on the board and damage to the contract. They're putting out the possibility of preimbursement. I think that's a good thing to do. Since then, there has also been the possibility of a bank responsibility, as mentioned here. This led to our conclusion. We certainly hope that landlords, at least those who are authorized, would take a very serious look at the possibility of adding this, especially the terms involved in the insurance system. This is an idea that humans have been testing, and this is where they're creating the frame of law around it. I understand this has been a great test.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u199	Mr. President. That's an interesting idea. Of course, it presents the problem of the Icelandic tenet. It is so large in the hands of individuals who rent out their own homes. Because people have chosen to collect relatively lower rents and to get the people they trust and know how to manage their housing, this is positive in that respect. However, this has also resulted in people's dissatisfaction. They rent an apartment, and then a daughter comes home from school or aunt, and the apartment needs to be released, and people have to leave on short notice. Similarly, there is insecurity, for one individual takes a risk of renting out property and thus wants insurance money. This follows the individual market set up by Icelanders and is, of course, the direct offspring of the specialist policy. We haven't been ready to build real estate companies. When I'm at the highest. A minister speaks of some sort of landlord's insurance policy, is she not looking primarily at the tenants on the market for employment? All the people who rent homes - now I'm not speaking against them, they're just people renting out their property, and they're very positive that they're offered on such property, but it's a much more difficult market to deal with, and often more difficult for tenants. Is this fund primarily intended for real estates, or is it the idea that people who rent houses in general will become members of such a fund?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u200	A respectable president. The principle that we have thought of it comes first to lawmakers. This is just one of those things I think the committee will be looking at, i.e. whether it would be possible for more people to gather together and share the risk in this way. As I mentioned, the suggestion we received from the cooperative group was very clear, and the project management said that these differing views were being weighed. The tenants have been with landlords who are very unfair, but tenants have many very bad experience with the premiums of tenants and bad associations. It may take a very long time and it may be very difficult to get people out of their homes when they have stopped paying rent and even damaged the house. The cost of doing so has become far beyond the guarantee. For example, one of the things we do not share in the bill, but I know that the Ministry of Internal Affairs has been considering whether it is possible to speed up getting people out of their homes when they have completely failed their contracts with the landlord. When the time comes, we are still trying to weigh different viewpoints. It is true that the amount of money may be high for those who are in the rented market, but we certainly hope that by building it, they will take out the advance payment to improve the tenant position, but it is important to make sure that people are willing to rent out their homes. Those who rent out their own homes are a very large and important part of the Icelandic tenement, and it is important that this continue.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u201	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying in this speech, which I'm going to have very brief, that I thought it sounded pretty good. The minister in his talk on 3 mg. 2. G., who became a significant debate over the last council, and the fact that special arrangements are being made for renting houses in residence homes. I think this is a very important change from last year. I'm also glad it's in 3. a woman who is not profit-employed landlord is permitted to set legal and legal requirements for the rent of an apartment house. I think it's a really good change on the bill from what it was when it was put out last year, and I'm just celebrating it. Tonight is the highest. Minister has recommended the Homing Maps. These are large and extensive issues, as one could see how fast a minister had to speak at times. You can also see how thick it is - talking about the volume of the bill. Of course, having a home is one of the most important things in people's lives, so I wanted to leave quietly and hold a brief talk at the end of the discussion, for like the highest. A minister said that it is very important that these issues be taken together as a whole. So it's a little sad how late they're going to be, but I'm glad they're here now, and I'm sure it's the most important thing to do. For example, a health - care committee may arrange for a discussion to take place. It's big and complicated. I'd like to celebrate what happened earlier. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingadóttir, who, at the same time, is president of the dog. The welfare committee, said there would be a meeting on the committee in the morning and the bills would be issued. I'd like to say that I think it's important because we're going into Christmas vacation that it's going to be a good claim on the bills. I know there's a hurry to get things done, but it's just a matter of time before it's done. All of that, I wanted to say goodbye to the highest. Minister to congratulate you on bringing in the bills. Now the matter has arrived at the council, and there will be work at hand. The welfare committee is pleased to see what the future will be like.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u202	A respectable president. I want to thank the senator for her speech. She's right. She says it's a big deal. It's important that we try out the matters at the council. Senators and the entire natural community need an opportunity to pass their opinions and comments on the matter. However, I would like to remind you that this is part of the required agreements. Work contracts are being revised in February. As a result, it is very important that we conclude the matter before that time. The Congress has certainly shown that it can work well but quickly on such big issues. I also hope that the great preparation and the great consultation that has taken place with these primary points will be carried out in the progress of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u203	V.E.G. President. It was at the top of the line. Ministers not exactly a question to me, and I have to admit that I'm not better at this system than I thought it was my duty to answer. But at the end, I'd like to say that, of course, I hope that. The welfare committee is doing well with this job. In fact, I have nothing more to say about it than to repeat that while it is important to work fast in this matter, it is extremely important to work well. I think I've responded to the highest response. Minister of this brief introductory device.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u204	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to legalize the law of Iceland's Penitentiary, No. 36/2001, with subsequent changes. The bill suggests some changes to the current preliminary Article III of the European Parliament, which are considered important to help clarify how to receive and further development. It is suggested that the current provision be divided into a number of paragraphs in order to provide a clearer understanding of the factors in the procedure covered in the provisional, i.e. from when the bat receives the valuables and until it is finally taken into account in accordance with the Stability Treaty Act. The law that will be 2nd. in principle the 3rd agreement of the provisional principle III in the current law. However, here it is suggested that the government's banking agency be especially cared for in the management of financial resources, dr. Code 88/2009, State Bank County. This will continue to be expected to keep free funds in the special bank accounts of Iceland's Federal Bank, while other valuables will be maintained by the bank or by a partner appointed to be founded. In the regulations that will be 3 mg. is suggested that Iceland's Secret Bank establish a special organisation to care for the management and to complete and sell it on non-profit valuables or stocks. It is not expected that property will be owned by the company. It is assumed that the purpose of the company will have to be processed and converted to free funds. In other words, with regard to possession it is clear that it will be with the state's funds. The bill assumes that the body will be provided with a legal warrant for administrative management, complete and sell the assets, without any particular legal means being sought at any one time. It is recommended that the Society's management board have vast knowledge and experience to carry out this commission and that it be organized by the Sentencing Bank. While the bank belongs to the union, it is not expected that the Councilman nor the Minister who handles the government's property will come to the individual decisions made by society in the management of the property. By enforcing these sources by means of law and by enforcing them, experts are looking for treatment and provision of these valuables to transcend doubt. In management, full and selling property, the company shall emphasize transparency, objectiveness, equality and practicality. Practically, the highest price or market price for property is applied. It is assumed that the minister and the partner will make a special contract which will further address the work of the company and the aspects that are most relevant to the management and administration of these assets. Since the Councilman or Minister is not expected to interfere, as previously stated, the work of the Society is proposed to monitor the activities of the Society and to implement a contract between the state and the company. I'd like to say, in relation to the agreement referred to here, i.e. An agreement intended to be made with the Society, that I intend to present a plan to the agreement here under the Congress treatment of the matter. In the law of 4 mg. it provides a provision for the State of valuables received on the basis of 2 Secrets 1. The fourth layer of current legislation recommends the management and administration of the valuables in accordance with 2 mg. 1st par. a law on stability taxes. Here it is suggested that the directive referred to in the Convention on Strategies Treaty will also be included in the provisional directive for an explanation. It does, however, comment on measures that are different from the arrangements made by the company to take care of and prepare to work on the property, demand money, and obtain valuables. The provisions discussed in this provision are arrangements that largely involve the way the State finally employs the value of its possessions into society. Such arrangements should be made on the basis of financial and financial stability and the presentation of the case to the Economic and Business Committee on the preparatory level of the budget. Otherwise, a comment at 2 mg is cited. 1st par. bill for law No. 60/2015, about a stable tax. Mr. President. I suggest that the bill be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. to end this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u205	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of his history on the case. This is to establish a union to be established by the Council, appointing the administration of the Society, on the other hand it is a National Reunion to monitor the activities of the Society. It is then reported that the Minister should consult the Secret Bank on the evaluation of this impact on economic and financial stability, i.e. The sale of the assets and the presentation of the situation to the Economic and Business Committee at the preparation level of a budget bill. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on the status of this company for the council. This is very important in view of the stated targets that show that the Society stresses transparency, objectivity, equality and practicality that this transparency is ensured in some way. The minister suggested that he introduce this agreement between the Society and the minister to the council in some way. Doesn't count at the highest. Minister that it needs to be written much more clearly in this bill each exact meeting should be in view of the fact that the only thing mentioned in the text is to present the matter to the Economic and Business Committee at the preparation of a budget bill, which is really a very small part? I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he does not consider him to be a great reason for sharpening the Senate's surveillance role in this society that has an enormous amount of property and their management.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u206	Mr. President. I think it's very important that we distinguish between two things here. On the one hand, it is our job to hide the company, which is merely to care for these matters. It may be said that we are discussing a considerable amount of value, over 60 billion. However, as we look at how much of these assets could be inexpensive assets, a project is likely to turn toward just some 40 billion dollars in the Ministry of finance. This arrangement, on the other hand, is the arrangement for valuable things. This will then happen, so once the Society has placed prices in the bank account of the State in the Federal Bank, and it is a provision for the valuables in which this consultation is written, consultation with the Secret Bank, consultation with the Council through the budget, to make an account there. The other aspect of my discussion is at a time when the value is still unsolved inside the company, and the treatment is in force, and I'm sure I'd like to discuss this in more detail how we can conduct the Senate's surveillance role over that period. This is to make sure that you have the highest transparency of the method used. But let us bear in mind that after the contract is made, there will be nothing else that will be involved in this group rather than just what it says in the contract, as if we hide people in the state system the various tasks, and we can call out if they are not being treated somehow. However, there should be no news of this group except that the property has been sold or sold ahead. They're going to put it all in prices as the highest price as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u207	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I think it's very important. A financial and business committee will then review the meeting's arrival when the contract is prepared and exactly how it will be introduced to the Commission or to the council after the incident. It may also be that not all members of the Parliament are allowed to observe this matter but not just surly. The Economic and Business Committee. I think it's important in itself, and we're supposed to learn from the experience in the big issues that have been discussed here. There, we could have done better in my view, taking the entire conference into our own hands. The other question I'd like to ask the highest. The minister to it is the fact that the key role of the bank is not the management of property. Nevertheless, it is here chosen to establish a company in the Pentateuch to care for this organisation. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Is there any other way? To start a special society? Whether he could just review the reasons why this route is beginning to take place and not establish a special government society to care for this administration or simply hide a far greater role than it already has. If the highest. A minister could only review the argument.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u208	Mr. President. The main reason that the Federal Society is set up is that the property and value of the bank are coming out of the stocks and that we have cooperated with the Secret Bank on the removal of the problems from the beginning and in connection with the restoration of the banks was established within the Sensian Bank, or since the time of the work of rebuilding the banks. I can refer to the National Social Bank of Iceland. There have also been other societies, such as Hilda. At one time, it was to establish a company of Salvahol. There, knowledge has been built up. These are assets that spring out of the possession process, where the late bat has been very far away. He will give a review of the disposition of the object, i.e. The value of the property. It was, therefore, close to continuing to cooperate and making use of the knowledge that has been built up in a property business in the Federal Bank, a special association. But since the collapse, there have been hundreds of billions of property companies. Other advantages that might have been considered were, of course, entrusted to the government's bank administration. However, she has had the distinct role of carrying the government's holdings on financial affairs and will have plenty to do with planning for the sale of their possessions. Third, some new privatization committee could have been established inside the management system. I should have. Directly under the board in some way. [[Up front.]] But this is the way it went on top. I hope that by the transparency of what we are putting up here, we can make a good deal of peace. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u209	A respectable president. I agree that transparency is very important. I emphasize that in the case of the Committee it will be considered as sufficiently secure. It reduces anxiety. It is, of course, property that is vast and that can change power and power in the Icelandic economy, and it is important to know in what way it is set aside. I'm happy with the thoughts that are presented here to put to the National Reconclusion of the Society and that it would do better than that it has the direct administration of the Secret Bank, the Board of Banks, or Ministers. I believe it's a more reasonable methodology. As I understand this case, recovery will be more stable under the U.S., Iceland's Secret Bank, now known as the U.S. Marshal, who has made comments on the legal basis. I wanted to direct that question to the highest level. A minister on the other hand, if it is not the correct understanding, and, of course, whether a minister is not prepared to discuss the matter in a contingency of information and, quite frankly, as the minister says, it is only a provision of the property and how it is arranged, the transparency process that would have to be prepared for the council to have everything on board, because I believe that it is in everyone's best interest that this arrangement is done at the beginning of its success.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u210	Mr. President. Just about the property involved. There's quite a bit of cash under here. It will find its out, as I could in my history speech, directly into the state account at the Federal Bank. This is followed by a considerable amount of registered property. There may be records of bonds, stocks, single unsolved assets, unbecoming stocks, unregistered bonds, other holdings, claims, and so on. I believe that it will, in large measure, take a relatively rapid turn at the price of specifically registered assets, and it is difficult to see that it has to take a very long time. However, a clear understanding of the entire arrangement, what kind of action will be used to bring in prices, benefits all those involved, especially the society itself, to eliminate any suspicion. I'm just offering a good partnership with the Committee to implement it at best possible. We will present the committees with a plan to negotiate and receive all the good indications on how to reach this common goal, that it is clear what principles should be based on the price of the property. One thing that comes to mind is that some form of regular work will be made up of a report on what has happened in the past quarter or something about the likes that could be introduced to a committee. I take note and thank you for being in charge of this arrangement with a Government Review. As for the U.S.A., questions are raised at least by an agent who has been appointed in April to respond. But if in this process one can somehow respond to the Sullaby Bank's wishes to make it more secure or to provide more solid support for its existence, it is likely to be taken into consideration. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u211	Mr. President. I'm not going to extend the discussion, but I just want to stress that when the bill goes to what? The EEA and Business Committee was particularly concerned with the objectives of the bill being targeted at transparency, objective, equality and practicality. I suppose that's what. Committee members are prepared to see if it is not necessary to write in more detail, and then I would especially like to mention what was stated in the answers, the responsibility for this partner, the responsibility of whose command is to order the Council Bank, but the check should be in the hands of Government Research. I think it is very important that we are convinced that these responsibilities are correct, that it is the right thing to go to the Union to be located at the Federal Bank, but still do not submit to administrative law, to do a project that is not the standard task of Iceland's Bank, a holding property. That is why I asked a question earlier about other possible options. I think it's very important that this responsibility is to be tore up in the committee. However, I would emphasize that the Senate's surveillance role is clearer in the law. As it is stated, it is in fact bound to, legally, that this is about introducing to the Economic and Business Committee at the preparation level of a financial bill whether selling property has any impact on financial status. However, I do believe that if we want to ensure that this transparency is set out as a specific objective, it is important that we better define the exact procedure with the council and even enter it into the law. I think that when we discuss this issue in January, it is very important that these questions are on the table so that at least all of us can try to convince ourselves that this is the right arrangement, to have this society located inside the Pentateuch. As I say, I would have felt that at least the committee would be more comfortable with the logical support and if it had not been normal to have a special company or to post the job in Bank County. Why am I wondering? Yes, because I want my responsibility to be clear. I want to go. Congress officials have a very clear picture of where the responsibility is because they are employed here with a wealth of possessions, and it is important that this is done in a totally professional way. This is the first, and the second has a view of the council. But because it's getting late, I'm not going to extend the discussion. I suppose that's what. A financial and business committee - and I see that her boss is out here - take a good time to review this matter and there we have the opportunity to tear down any questions that might arise around it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u212	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir wishes to make it clear how a consultation with the council should be conducted according to this bill. But as I understand the bill, no consultation is expected with the council. It is said to introduce to the Economic and Business Committee the means to take into account the value of the ransom when the assets have been cashed. No one according to the bill has ever tried to put his fist on the table, either the Secret Bank or the Economic and Business Committee. Of course, the late bank is supposed to have perfunctory rights, and it includes a great amount of pressure because if the second bank decided that the value of the stored possessions would be likely to increase the expansion, it would, of course, greatly reduce the credibility of the financial bill. On the other hand, I'd also like to say that I accept the way in which this is suggested. I think, in view of experience with the presence of the Secret Bank and the existence of the holding society, the Secret Bank is also quite well qualified to have this company. However, I pondered over the meaning of the former part of my case here and in view of the Supreme Court. According to one secretary, it is reasonable to assume that the internalization of property will take place relatively quickly, whether at least to consider that the Council or the Commission will be obliged to report regularly to the council in the manner in which the transfer of property has taken place, e.g. in a report to the General for which a financial and business committee for incidents might wish the minister to report orally here at the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u213	Mr. President. Yeah. This is one of my main concerns. The Council is just a presentation. It was only the effect of selling property on financial stability. The presentation is not in the early stages. But I thought it was the best. A minister earlier says that he was very willing to do so. The Economic and Business Committee considered changing this. And I thought, as I told you earlier in my case, it was normal for the process to be introduced not only to a financial and business committee but also to that point, the process is also presented at the General Assembly. If we have something to do with all of this, it will be best if we introduce it to the Generals and the Generals have some idea and conviction that this procedure is in order. So I'm up for ideas. paritaprevir That's the case with Össur, the son of Skarphéðinsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u214	Well, there was a case, Mr. President, so... A senator did so. But just to explain this more clearly to myself and to others, I would also like to point out that the council has access to this matter and exactly what part of the matter may be most needed to reflect what is happening and to use as much transparency as possible. This is because through the bill there will be a institutions or one of the council institutions, i.e. A government agency, monitoring the activities of the community, and in what way the holding of property is implemented and how the contract is made. That in itself is quite a good guarantee that the council has the right way to do so. On the other hand, I believe it is important for the council to have a picture of how this will happen and how I trust. The Economic and Business Committee for more management of the process and the wording in the bill for a presentation. I think it's a little weak. It's the same word as in the law we agreed on on the stable tax, and I criticized it back then. I'm also going to do it here, because there is one thing I'm going to do. I believe the council needs more control over this. That is why, first of all, I think that there is a clearer order on how an economic and business committee can approach the case, and it is at least a black minimum that it is said in a way that it is consulted as with the Secret Bank. Maybe that's what I wanted to pay attention to here. Then I want to stress again that I believe that this is a good option and to consider that the minister will report the matter in some way at regular intervals, especially because it will be quickly removed. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. Minister thinks this is going to happen fast.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u215	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson has grown long after I join him, but his words here are like a lovely bell in my ears, especially about putting in consultations instead of introductions. I think we should learn from what we talked about around the stability proposals, that writing these things clearly into the law is important. As for our reporting, I believe that a minister in his history declared that he is more than willing to report such reports on the progress of the case. I think it's important that we do what we need. The question of how this will be handled will be discussed in more detail by the Economic and Business Committee. But I hear no better than that this is the will to do it in the most clear and efficient manner toward the council. [[Stubborn.]] Stubbornly, w. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u216	Mr. President. In the context of this discussion, a small contribution has been made to the property government that is already taking place at the scene of the Federal Bank and to the approval of the Trustee of the World Council since the autumn of that year. I don't have a place in the Economic and Business Committee myself, but I was wondering if there was a review of the concomitant treatment of this bill on the basis of law under the already existing property county within the Secret Bank. [[I'm sorry.]] One factor was the comment by an agent that the basis for that law was not entirely sound. Now I think that the Scrollblad has a different opinion, but I think it's important that this be done on the committee scene. An agent's comments also pointed to how the project was being carried out and to the extent that it can relate to this matter, I believe that it is right for a financial and business committee to get information about it. That is correct, which was shown in the case of the highest. The secretary of finance earlier, according to the Council of U.S. Marshals' proposals until April to respond. However, it is normal in my opinion that the committee takes this note of the treatment of this case. The letter of the agent - this is not considered, but a letter - is being discussed at the level of the administrative and surveillance committee. To this end, an agent has made a detailed explanation of the letter's contents and, likewise, has been contacted by both the Secret Bank and the members of the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs on the matter. Further information and information and further discussion will be available in this field. Although this material, i.e. I believe that there will be some kind of conversation between these committees, when starting treatment at the economic and business committees.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u217	President. I thank the senator for these indications that I feel very strongly that he will react. The Economic and Business Committee. I'd like to ask the senator, in view of the reasonable lack of confidence in all performances, that the personalization of the banks is subject to whether he thinks the way to go best or whether there is any other means to go, and whether the senator thinks it is important that we can create as open a discussion as possible here in the General to prevent the continuation of trust, because it is natural for the public to fear that we are going back to personalization so soon after the big financial breakdown. I just wanted to hear something. The senator's concern is that we can have this conversation objectively but also as practical and open as possible, the discussion of how we're going to build around this important operation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u218	Mr. President. I can agree with that with what. A senator says that the decisions made in these matters will be fragile. It is very important that they thus remain suspicious that there will be as little and as open discussion about policy in these matters as possible at both the council and elsewhere. In general, I can agree with the view that I believe it is right. I strongly believe that the State should dispose of these parts of property. However, I realize that there is a problem, and the good, open discussion that serves the goal that the government's interests, the interests of taxpayers, and the interests of the public of the whole country are the best of loyalty. I can cut myself off on the way this bill is offered but like the highest. Of course, a minister of finance earlier could have been able to choose another formal way to go to that end. I believe that the bill can basically serve that purpose, but I agree with it. A candidate for open discussion, both at Generals' and elsewhere, on the steps that will take place in these areas, is very important.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u219	Mr. President. I will briefly explain my position. Four. 1st par. is in effect being suggested in the manner in which the penitentiary was placed. The financial and business committee shall come to the disposition of the value of the contained assets. It's exactly the same career as it was registered here when we had the stable tax, happy memories, that I cry all the time. Actually, I'm saying that I'd rather have gone that way than this way, says the highest. Minister and Council Banker. Then we just wait to put our hand in the wound and see if they have had the right religion. At any rate, at the time when it was accepted, I made it appear critical of the career, to the point that, in itself, I was fully satisfied that it should consult the Secret Bank, which is, in effect, the only thing men have today in regard to the provision of the money. It is the exact same wording there that was in the bill on the stable tax with regard to the General Assembly, i.e. This is to be introduced to the Economic and Business Committee. Now is the time for me to think of the one who has -- I dare not say it if it is. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason is in the house where that person has the most knowledge of financial matters - at least the most powerful force for us senators is. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson, chairman of the Economic and Business Committee. At one time, he was holding here a tremendous speeches and saying that spending any of the money that comes in because of the contribution would be extremely dangerous. He believed that the money was, in effect, the advantage of an overcoat, and he spoke to them that it was best worth them by burning them. There was a word. A senator here at the council this spring. He had such a clever argument that I fell in love with her like many other things that could see her coming. A senator has said. So I think it's important that the council have something to do with the matter. We know that the equipment is constantly being subjected to the temptation problem. For example, when it comes to elections, anyone in the government, we know that it is always the temptation for the execution of the authority to want a stretch to go to one and one out of the funds in the sealed accounts and pass through the nation's bodies, since it is often a popular fall just before elections. At that time, most of us spoke, thought I, in the sense that it was necessary for the council to have some sort of access to the case. The results of this were only to be presented to the Economic and Business Committee. I think it's the best I can do. What, then, is the hold we have through the government's institutions on these aspects of the process? It's through the Secret Bank. They're supposed to consult the Sentencing Bank. This has nothing other than that word, i.e. He should be consulted. The late bank can't say no. But, of course, it is a strong grip if the Council Bank was to give a review of the intended disposition of the negative properties of the contraband. This would greatly diminish the credibility of the budget bill and, therefore, the government. It is true that it is a continuation, but I am older than two times, and I know that there has certainly been strong evidence on the part of the board of directors that it is the will of the Board of Overseers to change the management of the Secret Bank, both individuals and the arrangement. On the basis of at least one of the board members, if not both but certain members of the two administrations, are declared willing to change the administration so that instead of being the bank manager, they will be three as before. I'm afraid of the story in that matter. Of course, men are going to seek the bank manager for proper rules, but there are always the dangers of three men in the management board of the Federal Bank that there is a possibility for political decisions. To counter this, I believe the council should undergo its many existences to have access to the case. What's going on between the power factors of our administration? She rests on a holding in English, by permission of presidents, ◯chacks and Balances, to be held in English. We're doing so in the administration order that the legislator is supposed to match the execution of the project and then rule out the whole other show. Everywhere in the system, we try to create resistance in which different power sides take place to make sure that this will not be an unfortunate conflict of interests. It's a matter of defending the interests of the public and the whole. In this subject, where we are discussing three factors, i.e. The bank, the executive authority, the legislature, and the lawgiver, I think it's the kind of device that's presented in 4 mg. 1st par. Hold on to the lawgiver. I think there's something to be done with it. That's my attitude on 1st. I don't have any specific suggestions on how to do that. However, I am very strongly directed to the Economic and Business Committee to look at it in the flesh. This is the main thing I have in this show. Other than that, about the other part of the bill, i.e. The union itself, wrapped around it and monitored it, seems to me that things are quite right from the highest level. Secretary of finance. I have no comment on the fact that this club is saved and within the docks at the Secret Bank. That might be two. I believe that there is an excellent experience with the Federal Bank in all of this, both his advice and the way he has held property within the holding society. It works by going that way. Then I guess I'm content with the fact that monitoring of property disposition, i.e. Their failure will, despite all indirect efforts, be carried out by the Council's surveillance through a review under this bill to monitor both the activities and the activities of this organisation. This fact is made clear in the bill and also in the report that it will also be taken over the disposition of the property. Nevertheless, I still feel that, as I have already made it clear in this discussion tonight, that it would be convenient and probably needed for everyone, in view of the demand for transparency, that in some way the council would have made further details about the progress of property. It would be possible in two ways. Of course, through the Economic and Business Committee, but it could also be done in this way to the highest level. The minister made a report on progress, following written reports, which would then be reviewed by the Economic and Business Committee. If she wished him to rip the matter up orally in a report, it would be done. He too would be self-important, I believe, to do it simply orally. I think that if we make peace with such a process, it would be very difficult to criticize it on the basis of lack of transparency. Now it just so happens. The minister of finance has published his feelings on this matter and this aspect of it earlier tonight and has said that he is prepared to look at anything that might be involved in the matter relating to property and the insurrection so that there would be cash available to the accounts listed here in the state of the Sensian Bank. That's my attitude, and I'm not hiding it from the highest. A president I always believe in my deepest feelings when I'm in a speech chair, that, of course, there's a lot of trouble in hearing a bad attitude. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Siglejonsson, president of the Economic and Business Committee, to the two major factors I've tore up here in short.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u220	A respectable president. I had no intention of speaking in cover 1. The matter will be considered very closely at the work of the Committee and rejoice that it has been made because this is an attempt to improve the management of the great financial resources that are coming up into the state's budget in the form of stability donations. Many of these assets are not in the form of cash but, rather, in all other possessions, financial regulations, bond bonds, and the rest, even property in companions. It may take time to get it into the form of cash. During this process, it is very important that the process be open, transparent, and arm length of devotion. This is an experiment. I see that this is a suggestion for a union owned by the National Bank to care for property, but I understand the fact that property itself is owned anyway by government funds. [[Up front.]] I don't think it's important that they're not on the National Bank accounts in themselves. Of course, the balance sheet on the state funds. The county body in the holding of the National Bank, I don't comment on that. I think it's a much better place than it is with the ESI, Iceland's Secret Bank, which is at the National Bank accounts. It is embarrassing and can cause a disturbance of the Federal Bank that needs to be very clean and clear and should not be of that sort. Regarding the answer to the point that was directed to me, even though it may be mine to ask why. A speaker, then I noticed. A senator wondered about the assembly's approach to this process, to turn property into cash, to sell it. I suppose he agrees with me in that it is not the State's place to have these assets for a long time. But when cash is passed, it is carefully prepared for how it is put in circulation. I think there's some very careful equipment. Does he not agree with me that these factors are not solidly arranged? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u221	Mr. President. If I'd understood a question, why? At the end of his answer, a senator was concerned whether I felt that the value of the locked property, which had been converted into cash, would be protected by the government's account in the Federal Bank. [[Up front.]] No, I'm not. I'm not quite comfortable with that. As I understood it, and I'll be right about it, so the fourth verse says. 1st gr., with permission of the U.S. President: The Council shall agree with the Council on the Assessment of the Impact on Economic and financial stability and shall present the case to the Economic and Business Committee at the preparation level of a budget bill. Mr. President. You can imagine a situation in which a financial and business committee would not agree fully with the situation. Then it's still so that the government could still drive it through. Yes, she could. Unfortunately, I believe our Congress and democracy are in a way that can be thought of. That's why I think it's better, as I said before, that it would only be fixed. For example, I distinguish between negotiations and introductions, the meaning of the two words. I would have at least wanted it to be in some way, possibly in a committee study, to clarify the role of the Economic and Business Committee. I'm saying that if she thinks so, she should be able to put down brakes. I'm saying these two power factors, the Council and the Council, through the Economic and Business Committee, should be at least equal. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u222	Thank you. A senator for these indications. I assure him that these are exactly the things the committee needs to explore in her work. All of this will be tried to make the most of it. We are also wondering if there is adequate care, and I may point that question to why. A senator, whether it is adequately thought that some property there may be sharers or even individuals' demands, we don't know yet, which may have difficulty doing business with the highest company, as this company will be. In fact, we are thinking, not of long - term business, but of completing our demands or selling them. I want to ask you why. A member of the committee may need to consider what we have learned from the experience with Drema and whether it is urgent to try to hand these demands into the hands of some companies who are interested in maintaining business relations with the debt on which we owe, whether it is one of the things we need to consider.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u223	Mr. President. Suddenly, I'm grateful. A senator for wanting to pay attention to the comments I made about the coming of the council through a financial and business committee. As for the second matter, it may be a technical question, but I tend to say clearly yes to the point that we should learn from our previous experience when we were sailing out of the crisis. Of course, the experience of pride is malicious and horrible. I think we should try to learn from it. But I trust each other. The head of the panel of all men best uses their X - ray eyes on it and suggest, after studying the history and experience, what would be the best way of handling these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u224	A respectable president. I recommend a proposal for the consecration of optional accounting on the United Nations Convention on torture and other cruel inhuman or disrespectful treatment or punishment, called the OPCAT Convention. The committee has discussed the matter. The Conspiracy proposal was under consideration in this committee for the second time. The Council of 144th, but not for a second discussion, agreed on a mutual proposal. The committee will support the discussion given to the committee then, building this opinion on previous payments. On a review of the 144th legislature, the Committee was contacted by María Bjarnadóttir from the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Margrét Steinarsdóttir from Iceland's Human Rights Office, Hörð Helgi Helgason and Anna Lúðvíksdóttir of Iceland from Amnesty International. At that time, the Commission received reviews of the case from Aggressiveness, a partner in Iceland, the Department of Internal Affairs, the National Rights Office of Human Rights, Perone Protection, and the Constitution. The commission was also received by reviews from the General Information and Education Committee and the Management Board. The Parliament's motion includes that the government will be committed to validate for Iceland on December 18, 2002, and that it was signed for Iceland's contract against torture and other cruel, inhuman or disrespectful treatments or punishments approved at the General Assembly of the United Nations on December 18, 2002, as well as without immediate preparation for its induction here on land. The Protocol requires the monitoring of an individual person who is assigned to visit regularly agencies that save people of freedom in order to prevent torture or other brutal or disrespectful treatment. This is a twofold check. On the one hand, under the international committee, who regularly visit the Member States that save people of freedom and offer recommendations and tips to reform. However, monitoring within each Member State is under the direction of the publication and which are subject to independence, essential expertise, and balance in the sex ratio of the surveillance partners. However, it is the custody of the Member States to make a decision regarding the domestic surveillance arrangements. Then the book on commitments of Member States to the access of surveillance institutions to individuals of liberty, provides access to information on a number of such individuals and institutions, as well as protection of the partners involved. In addition, Member States have the obligation to accept the recommendations and indicators on the subject of better practice and to consult the Rapporteur on the basis of events. A general positive view of the proposal was presented by the 144th legislature committee, which has most countries with which Iceland agrees when the Constitution is validated. Various human rights groups have been pressing it for some time, and there has been a shortage of coverages in the reports of the United Nations Committee on the execution of the torture Convention here on the United Nations, as well as in the 2013 Commission report on torture. The full implementation of the book calls for its introduction in Icelandic law. On the one hand, it is important to make sure that the international subcommittee on the defense of torture can monitor the country and enjoy the rights of the book. The Commission reviewed that this should be simple, since the European Council's Committee on torture already has such sources under Icelandic law. However, the implementation of national monitoring needs to be determined and the appropriate correction, financial and commitment of the individual. The Committee reviewed that the surveillance will be based on a multidisciplinary team of experts, such as lawyers, doctors, and psychologists. Therefore, it would be important to have enough expertise in these different areas. In this regard it can be noted that the State Department has already begun its implementation in this country with the aim of making a decision on how the surveillance will be best established. The review requires that the systematic surveillance should be initiated within one year of validation. However, Member States can delay that commitment for about three years with its declaration on validation. There is even a possibility that further two years of extensions may be needed. The committee puts it into the government to appreciate the need for such a declaration in the validation of the book but considers it important to complete its induction as soon as possible and no longer than three years after the validation of the book. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted unchanged. Under this view, the writer of Óttarr Proppé, Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, president of the Foreign Affairs Committee, why. for the officers of Elín Hirst, Sigurjónsson the son of Sigurion, Karl Garðarsson, Steinunn, the Árnadóttir of Earnah, and Vilhjálmur the son of Bjarnason. Birgitta Jónsdóttir, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this, but Silja Dögg Dög Gunnarsdóttir and Össur Skarphéðinsson were away at the hearing of the case. A respectable president. I take my heart to the spirit that appears here, and encourage us to accept the synonym and speed of validation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u225	Mr. President. I just want to use my right to make a comment to report that even though I was absent for uncontrollable reasons when the case was settled by the Committee, I fully support it. That's what the Conspiracy all does. Likewise, I would like to use this discourse in a speech chair to thank you. paritaprevir Birgitta's Jónsdóttir, Captain and Senator Pirata, for the initiative she had in making this case by administering the Senate resolution that is now leading to our, thirteen years after the contract was made by the United Nations, we are finally making our move.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u226	President. It is very good that we are prospering in completing this important matter here in the General Assembly. Many are grateful. Many human rights groups have promoted the claim that it will be validated. I am especially kind to have been allowed to participate in this long, rigid process. I want to use this opportunity to thank those who have taken the initiative in pressing this matter. I'd like to thank our assistant, Pirata, the First Aðalheiður of Ámundadóttir, especially for her work around this council. It should be noted that although I've moved the case and worked as I could to see that it would be done, I have felt an enormous desire here at the Council to validate this important account. There I have felt well - intentioned by people of all categories. I know it's a matter of time before the State Department finds out that we at the Generals finish this, and I think it's a good idea that the Council is giving the impression that it's pressing that we're sticking to our international commitments. I would like to welcome the solidarity and support and understanding that have been presented here at the General Assembly on the matter. I sincerely hope that we can develop such a frame of surveillance that it will cause us to nurture those who have been set free in such a way that we never have to face the fact that anyone has been tortured under these circumstances.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u227	Mr. President. Like the others in this discussion, I would like to thank those who have taken the initiative to bring this matter into the council and have contributed most of the work to do it here and make it happen. You're right. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir noted that it has been well agreed on by the council and by the State Department of State, which has been with both this council and the last. The results were reached during the last assembly, but the situation took place between a ship and a dock in spring payment. Hence, it is a pleasure to be paid now. Of course, we may feel that Iceland is on the lead in this, but the fact is that we have become the second to validate and implement the arrangement of this agreement. We've been informed from the State Department that they're working on solutions to these issues. However, it is of great importance that the council make their position clear in these matters, pushing that the management system responds to and implements the solutions and arrangements to monitor the state of these expected issues. That is why it is a joy for all of us today that this has brought about the final payment of the matter at the council. Then, of course, our task during the council will be to provide the administrative system for the execution of the regulations.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u228	President. Of course, I want to thank you for your ex. President of the State Department, huh? paritaprevir For the work that was done while being chairman of the Committee, the Birgir of an Ármannsson provided for. It was very well put forward and sent to the committees that are important in this regard. The General and Education Committee and the Control Board, where the unanimously were proposed to validate the publication. At the same time, I would like to thank the party who first proposed the case at the Council, okay? paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, but we've been changing our actions. The most important thing to me is that we all agree that we have to do well. That's why I really liked hearing it. A senator mentions the importance of continuing to provide this particular group of subjects, as well as expected to be very many others. I hope that we will be able to call back, once the project is started, or some kind of report or information about the procedure, because it is very important that it is done properly, in good order and fast. I just want to thank you again.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u229	Mr. President. I will not extend this discussion on my own unless I agree with it. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir says. Of course, we want to believe that these matters are relatively good here in view of what happens in many other places. On the other hand, the position of self - righteous individuals is always delicate, and experience from both here and from other countries, even though they are considered somewhat mature democracies, showing the need for maintenance and monitoring in this field. Such cases have at least been on the table of the Generals, and in recent years he has put a lot of work on issues related to the state of a prisoner. But I think that the kind of specific surveillance expected in this matter is important. It is vital that we endure, and it is also important for us to be able to demonstrate that we have things in good order.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-18-58.u230	In view of this discussion, I would like to say how important it is that we have begun to discuss the nature of the punishments of a verse and a detriment. I think we'll see quite a change of attitude in the near future, because I think many Icelanders don't see the meaning of punishment. For example, it has been this way now in prison that it is not too well enough to be dealt with, among other things, in order to allow people to serve. There's something that I think we really need to examine systemically. That's what we're looking at right now. The bill that leads to the General Assembly is about to be given a detailed coverage. I feel that there is a basis for us to examine these matters from the present and from the meaning of it. Why are people of freedom being drawn, is they because they are dangerous? After you started serving here at the council and began to look at the code of law better, you wonder. People serve a sentence, but they still have some kind of criminal record, and they don't really care what the crime is, they seem to be the only solution. I just wanted to say that I like what I've noticed during the discussion, that my attitude is quite moving into the modern world.
