ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-16-132.u1	A respectable president. I hereby recommend all political parties represented at the General Assembly for a synopsis proposal for the establishment of Iceland's Social Relations Fund. As noted, Iceland's people at this time remember that 100 years have passed since Icelandic women, 40 years of age and older, and workers have received votes and votes for the Generals. On June 19, 1915, Kristján X., Danakonungur Dana of Dana confirmed an order that gave women 40 years of age and older votes and votes. In 1920 the Constitution was changed, and the right to vote for men and women became equal. The General has decided to commemorate the 100th anniversary of women's election with a synopsis proposal to establish a new and powerful fund, Iceland's equal rights fund. The proposal suggests that the fund will receive its 100 billion projects. K. every year for five years, from the beginning of 2016 to the end of 2020. The sea is designed to have a role of funding or strengthening a multi-item project designed to contribute to further progress in the fields of international and international equality. The proposal assumes that the government of Iceland's equal rights funds will be organized by three men and as many as they will be elected to five years of the General Assembly. It is emphasized that the management board cooperates with the female organisation, the labour market, the Ministry, schools, funds, and institutions, on the subject of the fund. The cry is that the distribution of the funds will continue until June 19, each year, thus highlighting an association with the date and anniversary that the Council is referring to in 2015. Based on the wide range of projects that Iceland's Communion Fund is designed to handle, it is reasonable that the fund's management, both his spending and his daily management, will be subject to the Ministry of Presidency. Today, in accordance with Regulation No. 513/2006 set up for the 30 - year anniversary of the women's holiday ten years ago, in 2005. Iceland's equal rights fund is expected to take on its role as a trust fund. The Council concluded that the Ministry of Presidency should provide further guidelines on how to expand the fund's budget and the rules should be published in Government News. V.E.G. President. Iceland has for the past six years placed top priority on the World Economic Council list of gender equality. This conclusion reflects the results of equality in recent decades. Research has shown that increased equality can improve everyone's quality of life, since increased gender rights have positive effects on economic growth and economic stability as well as improvement in competitiveness. Therefore, transporters suggest that there will still be progress of equality and equality, in good connection with the labour market and the public in the country. In view of the benefits of international equality in Iceland, it is reasonable that the Icelanders contribute to further support in international equality. A respectable president. I'm not going to follow any point of the proposal presented as a Senate document, but I suppose the proposal will be followed by this reference to a subsequent discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-16-132.u2	Mr. President. I am one of the carriers of this proposal to be presented on the grounds of the 100th anniversary of the Women's Amendment. However, it was not only women who received the vote of 1915 but also men, workers, and free men, so it was a big step for many in the direction of democracy. For this reason, I'd like to recall that the story we're discussing here, then, particularly the struggle for women's rights, has been long and strict, and has often required drastic measures to win. I would like to review what John Stuart Mill said in his 19th - century Kufgun of women, published at the turn of 1900. That's where he says, by permission of a president: ◯ Instead of an arrangement, pointing them to the discrimination of men and women, there must be another factor aimed at establishing a perfect equation between the sexes so that neither one has any privilege or power, and neither one will be legally excluded from anything that has been reported. What Mill also pointed out was that our opinions on the rights of men and women were often difficult to refute, since they were not influenced by emotion. Mill says, with permission from the President: ▪ Today, just as we feel about the different positions of men and women in human society for various reasons, it is more alive and more deeply entrenched than any other feeling that store and protect the customs of the past. Little wonder, then, that they are the most powerful of all and have defended themselves against the spiritual revolutions that have occurred in later times in human society. It's worth considering that we're still here fighting for the equal rights of men and women, because even though he has the same law, we all know that it matters here, even in Iceland, although we're always there, whether he's a man or a woman. It has often taken drastic action to change this. Of course, it is enough to review the lectures of Bríet Bjarnhéðinsdóttir, published in the same book published by the Hinina of literature, which bore the fine title, a lecture on women's interests and domains, in which she set up a series of struggles that women had to fight for; to form the bioavailability of women in education, and that was radical at that time, just as the Trinitarians felt to be extremely radical at the time. He was even ridiculed and derided, that there women should agree to join him in a special list of women, but only then other political parties accepted themselves and began working on the equal rights of the sexes at the General Assembly. And today's breast revolution, many people wonder that young women wear clothes to strip off their breasts, and I hear a number of people stumbled. I say, isn't this evidence that we should listen to the women because they are fighting for their rights? I support their need to express themselves in ways that are convenient for them at their convenience. The proposal on which we are dealing with Iceland's Ecosystem of Equal Opportunities deals with various projects, including to work against the pay of the sex and to promote overall equality, shed light on the social and environmental benefits of increased equality and support of international equality, which is important. The projects are also designed to counteract violence, sexual violence, and domestic violence, which are now becoming increasingly involved in society. We see that we can do so much, much better. Development projects in the school system are also encouraged to form with increased education in sex studies, but we now see that what students have been given to take part in the discussion of what being a man and a woman is important to them to develop and become good citizens in the democracies community. It is also discussed to encourage young people in general to expand their participation in social activities, and, of course, all of us should have a common responsibility to promote increased election participation and activity. We need to take note of the clues that we have received in our last election, since the election program of young people seems to be losing. Then we will discuss research projects that have fallen to shed light on the sex status as well as on the past. All of this is a good and noble goal, but I'm sure we too will be asked: Is this what really matters? I'd like to say that this is, of course, the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the election. It is important that we realize that although many efforts have been made and Iceland has been successful in international comparison, there are also many jobs that are not designed to measure the rights and status of the sex to achieve the perfect equality that Mill spoke of in the 19th century. Our role too, not only in this matter, but always, is to ensure that everyone can participate in the community. Of course, there are a number of other assignments that we should consider, for it is our responsibility to ensure that it is right. That's what we can call public interest that is supposed to be the objective of our senators, i.e. struggling to share in the community. Of course, it's not just about women and men; it's about many of the groups that report themselves at the moment; I'm referring to as the deaf outside here and calling out for their right to participate in the community; but I could name countless numbers of groups. The main thing is that we are aware that it is our job to ensure that everyone in the community, men and women, but also other groups. This suggestion is just one aspect of that project. It's probably never over, but we should be aware of that in all our jobs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-16-132.u3	A respectable president. In the celebration of June 19, and the celebrations that will be held here at the council, there have been hanged up in the dining hall at hearings presented to prevent women from being elected here in this country. I'd like to quote four of these cards, with president's permission: It has been a long time since I thought of this remarkable material with the little intellectual powers given to me, and I am so convinced that all of these so - called women rights movement now taking over is not so bad, humanity's euphemism, which must lead to an ever - increasing pain in life that will not be improved. The second card says, with the permission of the president: ▪ The men have taken on the job, but the female nations are involved. Political work is no toy. They're kind of a dirty job, and we're supposed to protect the women. Then, too, with the permission of the president: ▪ It's not a connotation material, e.g. for married men to have their wives at the General Assembly, a daughter in the town government, and perhaps the maid at either spot too. The fourth thing I'd like to mention is, says, by permission of the president: ▪ Even if I'm female, I don't like to expect one of 20 women at council all at once. Fortunately, we have reached the goal that there are at least 20 women here, but that does not mean that we still have considerable work to do. While we speak well, Icelanders, when it comes to international equality, this does not necessarily indicate that we have reached all the way but merely a signal that we have it far, but a considerable task is unworked. I'd like to briefly comment on this synopsis proposal here that we in the United States would have liked to have it clearer, i.e. Even now, when many are involved, more projects and perhaps harder to find are involved. But I'm glad that we've made it together, and I have strong faith in the success of these funds. However, there is a shadow of these celebrations, in view of Saturday's legislation on women's strikes, but this does not change the fact that we are now rejoicing that we have met to place half a billion people in these projects in the next five years. At the same time, I feel that it is important to correct the situation here that we consider these funds not to be a substitute for other resources but to be an added addition to the work and will not affect the reduction of other factors associated with them. I would especially like to mention the development teamwork because the coming years of cutting out on the development team has been cut off by this government. We are opposed, we are equalmen; we have been highlighting women and children in the developing business, and we have directed money there. I must say, a respectable president, this is a requirement that considerable amounts of these funds go to projects associated with increased gender equality on a international level. Then I think it is important that we also agree not to reduce the contributions to development cooperation and, if anything, give.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-16-132.u4	A respectable president. On Friday, men remember the turning point, some of which, 100 years ago, women received a vote 100 years ago. Of course, there is good reason to rejoice on this day and to emphasize the basic human rights of the election. The protocol recommended for this reason is proposed, i.e. to commemorate this 100 - year - old birthday. On the other hand, I would like to declare my disappointments with this synonym, which I believe is now nothing more than another government charge. The proposal suggests that significant sums of money are disputed in a highly unremarkable way in various projects that are listed at the same time and that money is missing on many necessary tasks that I know are even a parapolitic controversies that need to be attacked. Of course, I don't mean to speak on behalf of all women or anyone else but only myself, but it's my opinion that women's respect is no particular object shown by a council agreement that sends 500 million. K. The taxpayer's bill, which I let myself remind you, is about half the women. Now someone might say, " It's a breakthrough here on Friday, June 19, doesn't it have to be celebrated? ' I reiterate what I've said before: Of course, we should celebrate the 100th anniversary of women's election. But I ask them at a convention, a respectable president: Does it always have to spend money? Does it always have to be done? I remind you that in the course of this birthday all this year, this milestone has been commemorated in many ways - all of this year. Expenditures for this are except for the expenses presented here. I just want to mention this and remind you that the Council's program is planned on June 19, Friday, with a big celebration, a chorus song, and speeches. The President of the Generals and the talks of the representatives of the political leaders of these classes, to give the best of a talk. The President of Iceland, if I understand that. In my opinion, it's a sufficient celebration that I think we should all join and celebrate, but I think it's good to consider that the account that comes from this council agreement will be sent to the women of this country half.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-16-132.u5	V.E.G. President. I'm glad we're here at the council to witness that the presidents of all political parties can meet up with this turning point. Of course, there is usually one of the most important issues that we will discuss in the conference hall. It is important for our children to see that we here, women and men, are interested in increasing the equality of the sexes and in helping their future in this country to be more in the direction that we dream to see. I want my children to grow up with equal opportunities. If this proposal makes that happen, I sure hope that we all in this hall will pay our vote on June 19th. I know what a boy's mother and girl's mother sees that it's unacceptable that their future may possibly be because they won't have the same pay for their sex alone. All of us here must stand together to do all we can to change that fact. One way you can do this is by doing more research. Some people say to me, " You're the right person. ' How can you be fighting that we work here in this way to increase equality? Is it not foolish to place money on it? It is a simple matter to answer. Economic interests are involved in the desire to increase the equality of the sexes. It is economic interests to get women to do their part as much as men in the commercial world in this country. We've heard from many of the most powerful officials in Iceland how important this is. The other day, members of Parliament from the Baltic States, Russia, and North countries attended a conference called The Northern Division. We agreed with some of the officials from these countries to discuss equality in this field. It's not easy in this group to discuss equality, but we did it. I was proud of us Icelanders, and especially of the boys who worked with us on this mission. I am proud of the struggle our foreign minister is in and the attention it receives on an international scale. I really hope that this will work, for I believe that if men and women go through one thing, we will succeed because together we are stronger. That's how it all works. Right men should understand that by everyone laying down on the years, the outcome will be better. I believe it. However, I also believe that in order to show people the whites the economic benefits of gender equality are fact. We, who were at the Northern Dation Conference, went to the Reykjavík Energy Office, whose company management has the policy of increasing sexual equality at the workplace for economic reasons. I believe there are a lot more companies in Iceland in that position. Early in the discussion, development issues and more assistance were discussed in developing countries. Of course, it is proper to do so, but we too should look closer. We're in cooperation with fine neighboring nations here in the Northern Hemisphere. For example, if we look at equality in the northern regions of Russia, Canada's northern regions, and our good friends in the Faeroe Islands, we can do a lot of good things there, helping to improve only the knowledge of equality there. That's one of the things I think we should do, and that's one of those suggestions. United, we're stronger.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-16-132.u6	V.E.G. President. What a joy it is to be here at the turning point of Friday and to share in celebrating the 100th anniversary of the woman's vote on June 19. To me, it is a privilege to experience this turning point as a woman and as a senator. Our work in these matters is to celebrate what we have done, to improve the need, and to share their effectiveness in the international community we have achieved here in Iceland. I am most proud of Icelandic women, first and foremost, for their revolutions, revolutions that have reached the world's attention, both the breast revolution, and now about the silence, women speaking. Likewise, I am proud of the work being done by the minister of foreign affairs and, in fact, to the results we have achieved. We take others with us in that work and teach them. The aims of equal rights are listed in the synonym, including a project designed to counteract sexual violence and domestic violence. My first talk from that talk was about domestic violence. The same time we're working on these revolutions, while we're building Iceland's Equal Opportunity Fund, we find that a large proportion of women in Iceland are subject to sexual harassment at their place of employment. I'm very happy that I started a development project in the school system and contributed to a strong self - image, both for boys and for girls, as well as my teaching on sex. I never feel that having sex in school is too important. It also states that there are tasks that encourage young people of both sexes to expand their involvement in political activities. Seeing that as a young woman in politics makes me very happy. It has often been said that it is difficult for young women to become involved in politics. As soon as we submit to this council resolution proposal, I would like to encourage especially young women to make themselves available wherever they want to appear, wherever they want to participate, because, as I said earlier, Icelandic women are extremely strong and together, we can achieve tremendous success. So I am very happy to see this council hearing proposal for the Council and look forward to the celebration of June 19th.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-16-132.u7	A respectable president. I want to be like the rest of you here because this case has come to pass. I think it is appropriate, in view of the milestones that will be here on Friday, and very appropriate, that cross - political relations are involved and that the representatives of all classes are involved. Of course, there are major milestones that will be next Friday, important for us women and important for Iceland. Hence, it is a pleasure to know that the council decided to gather together and do the work. I think priorities are right and the projects are most likely, and hopefully they'll work well for all of us. So I just wanted to congratulate us on what we're talking about today and I hope this will be another step towards the extraordinary achievements that Iceland has had in equality over the years.
