ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u1	A respectable president. Perhaps it is unsatisfactory to call this the President's conference board because this team is commonly used by members rather by members of this team to complain about the Prime Minister's task management than directly to the President's conference board. It's already well-fished. Finally, the prime minister is anxious for a meeting. It is reason to ask whether a person should spend yet another important day in the madness that the foreman has set up here on the program this week and whether a prime minister has no more needed work for the council than this vain argument of premature activation ideas, whether there are no suggestions on the terms of the country's ideals, the remuneration of taxes and pensioners, the problem of housing, or any other needs called in the community, or if there is just no work management in the country. That's why we must call it when this nonsense is set in motion here another day to the highest level. The prime minister will answer whether he is totally empty - handed about the need for a matter, so that is all there is to this nonsense. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u2	A respectable president. Now, on the third day in a series of issues that the president must realize is that it is undefeated to have a program in today's society. I just ask a respectable president: Is there any confusion in the fact that a schedule is unwise? Is there something missing about the government and the community out there that makes it clear that there is something more important to these days than the damage done to Jón Gunnarsson's son and the government? Is it not clear that there are fiery strikes all over the world? Don't you think it's in Iceland today? How are we going to help the president determine what the situation is? Or is there trouble because Iceland is really out of control these days, these weeks and these losses, that there is no overall vision of Iceland's situation today? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u3	A respectable president. I don't think it's that it's just a president who decided to put this matter on the agenda these days. I think this more important part of the government is imagining in some weird way that it's very difficult to put your finger on that the reason seven out of ten people don't trust this government is because there's more activations in this country. I think this government and this top member of the board imagine that the reason why we're in the middle of a crisis at work market and strike is that the paralytic community has to work at Lake Hagah. And as soon as they get through it, everything here will fall into love, trust in the Council will grow, and 80% of the people will run behind the board. It is a real loss of reality that will determine that when eight full days remain according to a schedule of action, there is a complete disagreement here at the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u4	A respectable president. At the end of this month, some 100,000 people will be affected here. It is the seventh week from the beginning of strikes by certain groups in the community. And what will this government and the government do then? Sets the schedule slightly according to the panel suggestions for the change in frame planning and destruction of that process. What for? We've mentioned it here, members of the administration body, that the probable cause is that it is being covered by the complete inability of this government to deal with what is going on in the labour market. A respectable president. The call for those who are now in strikes or are on their way to strike is improved standard of living and better living. The government and the World Council can bring many suggestions into those situations to answer that call. What do they bring in here? [[The president calls.]] Nothing. They're giving you a clear, respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u5	A respectable president. As soon as we, a few members of the council, made a silent announcement at the beginning of a meeting, the highest levels were held. Prime Minister forward. It is as if it had become a conditional reaction of the highest degree. Prime Minister, as soon as someone pauses in this room to express objections or objections or views that are not the highest. Prime Minister pleases them to the minister. [[Up front.]] He's back! Welcome back! I come up here to protest the program. I'm using this team for President's conference board to do that. I think the president must be aware now that the third day is going to discuss this matter, that there is a serious disagreement. We have a serious problem with the changes in the proposals of a greater part of the employment committee, and two departments believe it to be illegal. I don't think we're very interested in a play. There is simply no other thing to wait for. [[The president calls.]] If this issue was not on schedule, what would be on the program? Is it just trying to keep the council going? If so, it would be honest to do so. The president just said so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u6	A respectable president. I find it odd how often we are put in the position of reasoning on the program here. You would have thought that this fine ponta was mainly intended to be divided into opinions and to reveal material content, but instead, we are constantly arguing about the program. Now it is easy to complain that when the council members are ignored repeatedly, over and over again, there is no other way to express their opinion. There are plenty of issues we would need to discuss here, including the fight we now face. We should focus on matters that are acceptable to discuss. Let's keep it waiting. There are only a few days left of this council, at least According to a plan that you're beginning to suspect is going to get longer, if we're going to do something. I wondered about the purpose of this. Why does this need to be on the program? Is there not enough other subjects we could discuss, is there not enough more in the community that we need to discuss? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u7	V.E.G. President. This will include a national protection and energy efficiency programme, Involvement. Of course, we all know in here that there's Hamp activation with a modification form of about four other inducers that have not entered the legal process of a frame plan. It has extended itself to the mountain lady. We received protests over the past Wednesday, protests like those were here frequently due to activation issues before a frame plan arose. It is in the process that the government of the Sigmunds of Gunnlaugsson Gunollon would like to restore these cases. I'm surprised at the highest. A president, despite the opinions of the Department of Environment and Resources, has felt that this change would be legal. She's not. I have the mountainwoman to testify to that fact.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u8	President. I'm protesting the council program today. I object to this priorities, but I object that the president of the council groups here presents a subject that is a declaration of war at such delicate times when large groups of the community have been compelled to go and take advantage of the right to strike. There is an emergency at the Land Hospital, an emergency in many parts of the country. And instead of finding time to find some ways we can find a way to get to the mess, through a tax outlet or something else, we're here scrambling about something that's not supposed to be part of the frame that's been set and the frame will be standing, President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u9	Mr. President. During the last term, we agreed on a synopsis following a report by the World Council of Research, U.S. government practices and Icelandic politicians. One of the things mentioned, tore to a very detailed degree, was the tendency of the Icelandic statesmen to ignore professionals and scholars when they have legitimate warnings and a legitimate opinion. We agreed with the suggestion that we were going to improve the Icelandic statesman, 63:0. Now there's six dogs. Councilmen, Jón Gunnarsson, Haraldur Benediktsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Páll Jóhann Pálsson, Þorsteinn Sæmundsson and Þórunn Egilsdóttir, who sign committees where they say they do not consider them to be a reason to wait for professional opinion in the Framework Programme management program. They feel that they are willing to make decisions without the completion of their legitimate role in the project because they feel that they are better off than the professionals. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u10	Mr. President. I'm protesting the program at the council today. I wondered which political bitch is behind, what a strategy is going on to have the council discuss a very controversial proposal and keep it busy, a suggestion that violates the spirit of the law on the framework, a suggestion that violates the proposal of the Supreme Court. Environment Minister, when there is much more to it. If the highest. President and Chief. The government certainly doesn't want to hear it. There are other causes for discussion by members of the Parliament here at work. For example, I can mention two cases that are handled by a financial committee, from the past. Final financial laws have not yet been finished for 2013, and the latest plans for the future have not been over yet. Governments in the government for the next four years.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u11	Mr. President. The target of the day is at the highest level. A president, and when it's just a few days out of Congress, you would have thought it was the best. Ministers would put pressure on putting their affairs through here. Is this a case, which is now dejected, offered to some minister? No, it's not, it's offered more than a part of the employment committee, six members of the Parliament. Have the six members of the pro board become a minister? What about the Honourable Minister, are they completely unconscious, and are they not interested in getting to the council program? How long will they keep the council, these six top minister members of the professional board? I think it's time we start thinking about priorities on the council program.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u12	A respectable president. After the last word. The senator has reason to ask why these six members of the professional committee just don't take over the government because it's not on the other hand. I'm still calling for the highest. The minister expressed himself on this amazing priorities for the greater part here on the program. Where is it, chief? Prime Minister, dissociate your insurance? Where is the key bill promised? Where are your suggestions for 300 yards? Millions of people from demand to homes in the country? Why are we wasting our time on unnecessary suggestions from Jón Gunnarsson that neither of your environmental ministers have supported? Is this because the prime minister is totally empty in all his major matters?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u13	A respectable president. This has been repeated in the discussion of the framework of the broad range of ignorance that lays the basis for the greater part's proposal. I'd like to ask a president if there's a lot of evidence in the greater part that the proposal for Water Water Water Water Reactivation is about 20 megawatts. In comparison, Hellish is responsible for 300 megawatts. 20 megawatts are worth going to this party at the council and putting everything next to them. A wise man told me in the East on the day when 20 megawatts returned 12 jobs in an aluminium. Then the wheels of professional life have really begun, and the future seems to be in the mind of those who speak here repeatedly about the lack of energy in society but repeatedly reflect their political lack of energy.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u14	A respectable president. I think it should be clear to the head of the board that the program will not work here as long as this case is being planned, these adjustments. There'll be no solution at this council if it goes on like this. No cases will be finished here as long as this case is on the agenda. It's so simple. I call attention to the fact that there is no attempt, there is no conversation going on to solve this. When it comes to handling the workforce, as well as in this case, which is now being discussed and scheduled day after day, to find a way out of this dilemma. It is clear that at least it is not in the custody of the council leaders to complete this matter. Apparently, they do not have the authority to sit down with us in the smaller section and find a solution.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u15	A respectable president. There are a lot of strange things to do at this council right now when the end of this council is gone. There are days left, and we have not seen any government list of the government's priorities that would be very normal at this point in order for us to put together strings. One of the greatest conflicts between the nation and the time has come into the Hall of Congress without any compromise. That's a very controversial matter. What for? And this is in no agreement with the party here at council, councilmen, or presidents. So it's only natural for you to ask, because it's very unusual. What's going on? Why is this done? I think it's the best. The president owes the Senate an explanation for this. Is there no other problem? It's really scary, because the situation in the community is calling for many of the fundamental issues that we should be discussing here and doing. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Where, for example, is the transport program? [[Taken out on: right.]] [[The president calls.]] The government is breaking one process, which is a framework, and it does not follow another transport plan. Everything's under pressure.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u16	A respectable president. I've been singing in church choirs, men's shoe, but I've never sung a quartet like this. I've been singing and complaining. Now he begins on the third day, and he is being complained about the judge. The members of a large part of the work committee have a right to offer. [[Up front.]] It's not like they're planning this alone, it's going to be paid for this vote where all the senators have a vote. On the other hand, I rejoice at what is at peace. Councilmen, including president of the branch office of the left green, say it's only about 20 megawatts. I'm glad you're here. But so far, it has been about just a few more megawatts. So I encourage people to start talking if it's just about the 20 megawatts. Is it not time to stop complaining about the judge forever? [[The president calls.]] The president has already judged the case. [[The president calls.]] We have every right to make this suggestion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u17	President. This is so fucked up. I insist that the president of this meeting meet and be called for a meeting among the presidents in order to review the program. That's not an option, because we don't know what's going to happen here. Where's the stable tax? Where are the other two prime products, which are still in the Ministry of finance, regarding the need for housing? In the meantime, we're just messing up. How do members of the government feel about this confusion? Why is this subject being put on a program that will upset us when we are to be able to find a mutual solution? [[The president calls.]] This is bullshit.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u18	A respectable president. Under this team, President's conference board, we're certainly discussing a meeting board at the highest level. President, but it's not working out, it's just not working. I don't really understand. I've asked a president for answers before, but he keeps silent. I don't understand why the President puts this sullied change proposal from the greater part of the employment committee in the first place. Why are no other issues more important? Why is it not important that all society is on its side because of disputes and strikes? Doesn't it matter? ◯ It's on you, it's just like that. We're all waiting to do something about it, but we don't get it, we don't have permission because the President has the agenda, just to be clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u19	Mr. President. It may not be surprising that the people in the country are surprised at this discussion and think that, as a member of the country, we are delaying the job of Congress. It shall be said that this situation is entirely at the command of the government and the government. Whatever it is. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson's point here is quite remarkable. Does he believe that the case they take as a hostage is what is demand in society when laws can be passed on by frame law and given the proposals for energy efficiency after more than a year, that the entire Congress can be taken hostage when other cases burn in society, health issues, injuries, and travel services are upset by events? All of this is a responsibility. Congress members of a large part of the work board, either in case of observation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u20	V.E.G. President. The next day, when a convention is concluded each day, the program of the next day will soon appear. In the past few days, you have looked into excitement, have you not seen and handled matters that are filled with nonsense in which some of the causes are used to offer suggestions that question the integrity of laws or rules? Sadly, the schedule has been unchanging. You wonder why. V.E.G. The president owes us to tell us. Is it a command from the government to do this in this way, or is it a sincere will? President to have this case as top priority? And then why? Of course, there are expectations that we are discussing solutions, as noted at the moment. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann's son Pálsson's brother, not solutions to this matter, but solutions to conflict, tax changes that may help to help and to the housing of those waiting for a bills. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Is it possible to delay matters so that the government can offer some suggestions when the summer begins to pass? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u21	Mr. President. So it is clear where the authority and responsibility is in this case that the President of the Parliament has the program and has decided to put in the priority of the Senate hearings with adjustments that would mean that if the council completes this discussion and agrees with the Senate resolution, then the council has concluded that the Minister should violate the law according to the Ministry's own opinion. This is what the Speaker of the Council puts first to discuss from day to day. Nine senators can call for an end to this discussion. You can take it from here. You have the power. Isn't that the other part that controls? You have the power to turn on people with this. Instead of seeking reconciliation and finding solutions, you can just turn your hands on the senators and finish this matter. You have the power, this is your responsibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u22	Mr. President. What I'm worried about in this matter is formality. A formalities represent much more than this government alone. Hv. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson mentioned a transport program that is just gone, a legal program. If we're talking about what people are waiting for all over the country, they're waiting for it. The formalities are complete. It's called the bills, like stable taxes before the end of Congress - where's the bill? There is no consultation on the program of the council. The rules and forms that we have agreed on to follow are not followed. When the situation has become so clear that we need to debate what committees should be referred to over once, more than twice, then there is reason to be concerned about our work here at council. There's every reason to discuss this with you about the President's conference board. To tell you the truth, I have this feeling that it's not a strategy, it's a complete incoherent situation. The members of the greater part of the business committee are able to take the council hostage because no human knows where this greater part is headed in any way, especially in the current labour dispute, and everyone is waiting to hear something about it, but nothing is heard. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u23	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson comes up here and speaks of quartets. It is not to complain that we are concerned about the priorities of the council and its schedule - responsibility. We call for consultation on which subjects should be scheduled and completed in the remaining few days until we are to complete our assignments. I'd like to agree with those who have pointed out that it was almost a matter of possible government corruption in order to help with the debate. Thousands are on strike. That must be one of the big things we should think about right now when there are only a few days left for Congress to come. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u24	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson said we were crying here the other day, earlier this week. Hv. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson comes up here and calls it a quarter. A respectable president. What we're talking about is that we worry about where we're headed in the community when tens of thousands of people have been working for weeks. Now it's headed to 100 levels. Icelanders will be in strikes. In this situation, it may be called a quartet to be concerned about the health status of the health system. Worried about the effects of international flights, it may be called quartets and taboos. A respectable president. Those who speak that way are real, and both of these senators have come up here and honestly said that they are only for protecting certain stakeholders in the community, and thus they are not worried about this position, but we have, and do not call it a quarter or a grouchy, respectable president. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u25	A respectable president. It was very illuminating that appeared earlier in the language of the day. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann, the son of Pálsson, said that we were actually discussing Hagah's water activation and that this was somehow just the rest of our life. Of course, here it is very obvious what is being done. They're pulling the line, they're dragging it one of the longest ways, so you can meet at some point other than a suggestion the highest. Minister's assuming. Of course it's not working. Neither I, Jón Gunnarsson's son, Haraldur Benediktsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Páll Pálsson, Þorsteinn Sæmundsson, Egilsdóttir Eglólsdótir, or any other. Professional board members, are on project management for a Framework Programme. We cannot, and we do not have the law to decide for protection or activation the cost of a frame plan, that's just the way it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u26	V.E.G. President. I notice that not everyone in the greater part seems to understand the nature of the Senate. It is this way in the normal democratic states that smaller things have some defenses so that the greater part cannot control it with any nonsense. In the council, our only advice is to try to get the more part of it to see that the procedure they want to have here is not working here. It is not the task force required to reach such a major interest level in Icelandic nature, irreversible damage to Iceland. Such matters will only be completed if people sit down and talk seriously. In the meantime, we will be here in this public address.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u27	A respectable president. I come up here for a word. paritaprevir Páll, the Jóhann of Pálsson, He seemed to be criticizing that we were here to complain. You're right about what you're doing. A senator, certainly we are complaining, for that is what this part of the program is, he is meant to complain. Also spoke whiskers. Senator on the judge. Now I really don't want to be a respected president, because he's a nice president in many ways, but in this case it's time to remind all of us of the circumstances in which we work. We act in circumstances where a respectable president is the former minister of the Independence Party, where a respectable president is also aggressor. 2.m. Witchest. for the Independence Party and where a respectable president was co-ordinated on December 13, 2012, suggesting that Uryrofos, Hagming, Holming, Cruffle, and High-Currection. So when speaking of judges, let us remind ourselves of what it is supposed to be like in soccer or in court. There the judge is to be independent. We do not live in that hall, a respectable president. It is simply not that there is a judge here who can objectively explain to us what things are meant to be. [[The president calls.]] That is why it is only exactly right for us and the only counsel we have to complain about. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking why. Senator: Aren't we even supposed to do that? [[The president calls.]] Why don't we just lie down and forget why we're here for this council?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u28	V.E.G. President. Here, the government anti-continents come repeatedly and make comments on the program, taking into account this matter, on a national protection and energy-efficiency programme. I'm not going to make any comments about it because I'm not. Senators are fully justified in this matter. However, in the administrative part, we give the highest decision. President, to be perfectly clear. Here we go. Councilmen repeatedly want to discuss labour markets. That's what we all want to do. [[Foreground on: Yes!]] [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] I'd like to point out that here's a point, unprepared queries, and the highest. Ministers are waiting in line to talk to you about them. Why don't we start with that team?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u29	It'll come to that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u31	V.E.G. President. I'm counting on the highest. The president has heard the comment that everyone here wants to discuss strikes. This is not enough to allow for an unprepared query time. But I'll just face a challenge. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson, son of Thor. I want to point that out, topv. President, that if we were here to discuss what the program's name says about, about, like, whale healing, it's been over for a long time. We're discussing whether or not to throw a frame plan. That's not a big deal, is it? paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson. That's disrespectful of other councils. A framework plan has been developed for 15, 20 years to find a way to resolve differences in society. Why should a few senators have the right to throw it all together and to let it all in the air in the community and to change this society back into the possibility that they can have some suggestions in their pocket to activate here and there and that it becomes an individual thing to decide with some sort of business between the administrations. I don't want that kind of community. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u32	Mr. President. The aim of the legislation on the protection and energy efficiency programme is to ensure that the implementation of land areas for activation is based on long-term indicators and a comprehensive interest assessment. Does anyone think that a greater part of the employment committee is in the spirit of these laws, where they feel that it is possible for them to ignore professional judgements and put in here something new? Hv. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson presented himself in a public discourse and offered a political wedding for activation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u33	He doesn't care about...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u34	Hv. A senator is one of the six transporters in the motion of changing. Hv. A senator does not realize that work - less than 20 years of age - is behind a frame plan. Just a proposition. A senator is sufficient for the highest. The President will take the matter off. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u35	A respectable president. I'm going to say something. That's right. I'm going to save my daughter, Ingadóttir, and I'm going to try to figure out what's going on here so we can talk about more needs. I think it would be nice to shorten this discussion and try to finish it. Surely you can do so with good intentions today if the Senate cares, sit down, and figure out a solution. I don't think we can spend the third day of the council in a row repeating the same talks. This is where they were making fun of it. paritaprevir Gunson's Gunnarsson Jón for repeated some speech that I did not hear, but it sounds to me that here one of the senators will repeat the same speech over and over again. This is not to be considered at the council. I think we can all agree on that. I think it's very important that we try to jump up the cards now and try to reimburse the game and make some sense of it. I think it's very important. I have discussed the problems at work in quite a number of interviews during the recent years. There were little subjugations. Now, when the damage is done, everyone is much more interested in it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Well, let's just get started on this discussion as soon as possible. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u36	Mr. President. There's a lot in the talk. paritaprevir Friðriksson, who I'm not gonna waste my time talking about here. I would like to see a number of other subjects on the agenda, but I'd like to see what's going on here today because we'd get a lot of things going on and could finish their work. I'm not talking about the mission to the U.S. high schools. The minister of education these days remains, although he is now in foreign lands, preparing his Ministry for serious matters; the number of opportunities in the country and people in general to pursue education. It's a mission to the high schools of the country. It is not stated, for example, that women's school should be united as well as MR, which are side by side. No, schools that are geographically far away from one another are to be united, but they are not to work together. For example, this matter is much more faith - strengthening and in many other ways than what we are here today. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It is the president of the council that measures the program and decides what to do when he knows it will be this way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u37	A respectable president. The quartet's backline won't go crazy. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] Hv. Regarding the importance of this matter, the members here point to strikes and other events and that we should discuss more of the labor movement's issues. [[Up front.]] [[Bring me something of a matter.]] [[Oh, that's rich.]] I'd like to read from the conclusions made by ASI since 23 October 2013: Sadly, the last government decided to break the reconciliation that had been made in a frame plan, thereby creating an example for political intervention in the professional proposals of the Project Management Board. [...] The proposal to the ground plan originally submitted to the General Assembly was based on professional work, taking into account the reports received during the long, detailed work process of the project management. ASI central management still believes that this proposal is most likely to create peace. Why don't we just start listening to ASI? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u38	To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Health and Environmental and Resource Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u39	Mr. President. As we have talked about, all of us are concerned about business issues, and only normal, both in BHM strike and also in other organizations. One thing that has been heard from the government, the highest. Secretary of finance, is preparing for changes in the tax system that he believes should lead to a better community, expected, and more practical solutions to labour issues, i.e. reduces the levels of the IRS. I'm surprised that this should be paid for the solution to labour issues, in view of the fact that a simple and flat tax system has been provided by many international institutions, now the last OECD, as an phenomenon that works inexorably, not equal. OECD has noted that the tax system can be used to improve the equation and to directly encourage its Member States to undergo tax changes and to take up a stepwise tax system where it has not been done by the breadming theory, i.e. having flat taxes on everyone, so that the rich and the poor pay equal rates, and then somehow the poor make money on the success of the rich, have been rejected. She's been described dead. So I'm surprised to learn that the Iceland government declares in view of all the available data that are expected to reduce the paces of the tax system, the plan is to return to a flat tax system. Of course, the government has already contributed to this by excluding a wealth tax. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister, president of the Future Party, who has sometimes been known to protect the welfare of their partnership with the Independence Party, whether it can be a policy of government going contrary to the advice of all international institutions to abandon the progressive taxation system, a procedure that will lead to greater inequities and data that have a soothing impact on growth and prosperity. [[The president calls.]] OECD also shows that in an equalizing society, growth and prosperity are also the most important.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u40	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for having the opportunity to discuss this matter, for there seems to be some misunderstanding in this regard. First, though, I want to express my joy at the point. A senator in OECD points in these matters. It can be said as a matter of course. A senator points out, as it were, has been designed to ensure general prosperity. OECD points out that there is an equation that may not have been greater than in Iceland for some time and that has increased in recent years. It is still working to increase the equation and the tax system changes that have been considered as one of the factors that have been ready to be considered in terms of collective agreements do not begin to evict the tax system and have one tax step. In fact, they are more likely to maintain an infinite number of tax steps, so to speak, under the influence of personal discounts. Without the fact that I'm going to go into exactly what men have been looking at, because it must also wonder about how things are developing in the labour market, all of these ideas have been going on toward still promoting the balance in society that, as I was able to do before, has been growing. It has been increasing, there has been a decline since the intervention of this government and the social changes that are being considered would result in a fall in the recovery of Iceland and the decline in income gap from what has become.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u41	Mr. President. I'm not sure I understand the answer to the highest. Prime Minister, I have to admit it, though I know that he began to say that it was all a misunderstanding. I've heard that from the highest. Prime Minister that all of this is a misunderstanding. All right, step-separated tax systems have increased the equation and the highest. The prime minister said that there was an increase in income distribution, he was right. That began in the last administration, though, at the height of its power. Prime Ministers find this very difficult to accept, especially because of the actions that were attacked in terms of the tax system. What OECD points out is that the tax system can be a key tool for increasing the balance in society. The decrease in stairs will not increase the equation in society. V.E.G. The prime minister says that he wants to increase the equation in the community, I like it, we agree on it, but what does it matter when we hear from the highest level repeatedly? Secretary of finance that he wants a simple tax system that means reducing tax steps and returning to the tax Catholic prejudigation, the tax Catholic of the Independence Party? Very much. Prime Minister will stop or represent the highest court. Prime Minister stopped, as the matter of the forward party seems generally to be with the government, stopping at the Independence Party? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u42	A respectable president. This misunderstanding, though I have tried to correct it, seems to be persistent. [[Up front.]] V.E.G. The secretary of finance has not spoken of changes in the tax system, which, on the contrary, are designed to increase the change, the emphasis has continued to... [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] On the contrary, it has the highest. Ministers of finance, such as other Ministers, spoke of changes that have fallen to support, to secure, and to expand the equation that has been achieved in the time of that government. Because of what? A senator takes note of the last government's policy on the tax issues, remembering that the greatest change in equations was due to the collapse of the financial system when the total number of high wages was eliminated. However, the change in current governments to tax and remuneration systems has been reduced in order to provide a special share of income groups, especially of the four largest tithings. [[The president calls.]] It has paid off in what OECD points out, if you're willing to believe it, in terms of an average of more than in Iceland. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u43	A respectable president. I guess that didn't go by the top. The prime minister, who is in great trouble here at the council, is starting the third day when we are asked to discuss a much controversial change form of more part of the employment committee to propose a Supreme Court proposal. Environment Minister for Idolation to be added to the colony class. In other words, four activation initiatives are to be fully submitted by the work of task management on a frame plan, and it is set here as just such a motion between discussions of Congress resolutions. We're quite a few of us here at the council who don't accept this treatment and think, like the attorneys of the Environment and Resource Ministry and the Ministry, that it's not in accordance with the law of activation being moved into a novelty party with a change in discussions. However, I would like to have a wording place in the first part of my inquiry at the highest level. Prime Minister on whether these instruments, this adjustment proposal for a greater part of the employment committee, reflect the priorities of the government. We are discussing this because it has been made available at the highest level. A president on the part of the government that this is its priority? Is that why the matter is on the program? Or the program is entirely obliged on responsibility and taking the lead. President? If we're discussing this because it's the government's priority, I'd like it to come up, and I'd like to hear the argument. V.E.G. Environment Minister has said that she does not like the adjustment of the more part of the employment committee and that she wants the project management to get peace to complete her work, in other words, that she does not support this adjustment proposal. Supports the highest. The prime minister of this adjustment proposal or supports the highest level. Prime Minister? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u44	A respectable president. Because the question of priorities is, of course, priority in this government is to improve the standard of living in the land, and it will be done only with increased wealth. And energy production has been cremated in the least way. Because the subject is spoken a lot about professionalism, the task management in other phases has dealt with the three activation options of Þjórð, the Crooky Age, and Hague Lake. [[Up front.]] As noted earlier, the Common Union has repeatedly repeated to the council to follow a professional discussion of a frame plan by setting up the products listed as a novelty party. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] - A respectable president. [[The president calls.]] Is it possible to answer queries without the constant screaming and all the bad things being done? On the other hand, the activation option in Lake Hags has been put into a waiting party for this work, although there is much evidence to indicate that there is an exceptional environmentally friendly option, which can remind us that only water is being brought back to its former size and that there is a devastating erosion that developed after the water subsided. [[Up front.]] But, a respectable president, to produce as much peace as possible has been achieved. The Environment Minister has made a agreement with a greater part of the employment committee to withdraw the proposal to restore Hag Lake to its own species, so that people can continue to reflect on the benefits of calm and quiet, and hopefully see that it is beneficial for the environment to engage in activation of this site and recover old Hag Sea and thus maintain a devastating eruption that has lasted for all too many decades. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[For example, what kind of work are these, Mr. President?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u45	A respectable president. So, there's been an agreement to change the motion we were supposed to be talking about here all day. When was this to be told to us? [[Up front.]] When was the ultimate plan. Mr President telling us this? [[Up front.]] Where are these decisions made? What are we talking about here in the Senate Hall? It's just a farce. I didn't ask for any professional food or food. Prime Minister on the rights discussed here. Whether it is allowed to decide here at the Senate Hall that priming options go to a novelty party when project management of the framework has not finished its work. And that's why it's the highest. the current Environment Minister and current Environment Minister only proposed one priming option, Involvement. It is the only activation that the project management has completed. It's the highest. The prime minister of this opinion, and thus is wrong with his own Minister in his own government, that it is all right to decide here to put the activations into a novelty party, despite the fact that the project management has not completed its coverage? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Does he think it's okay?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u46	A respectable president. In fact, I had thought of taking this opportunity to discuss only the meeting board of presidents here. I'd like to point out to a respectable president that there was more need for witnesses to see what sort of charade has been going on here in the last few days, and there's no need for a speech. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson's son. Already, it has been announced that a case is being resolved in a way requested by the government, in a manner at the highest level. Environment Minister has suggested that you start to get upset. [[It's the front call of the Senate Hall.]] [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I think this has made it clear that all this discussion of the President's conference board, all the activity we've seen at the council, the agitation that surfaced. In the ways in which I answer these matters now, all I do is create agitation, create conflict, and it doesn't matter what's underlying. It doesn't matter if we want the government, but it doesn't matter if we are willing to take more time to talk things over and resolve them, no matter what is presented here, the opposition to the government, even though it may be her own ideas in some way. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u47	President. I'm kind of speechless, it's so weird. It is quite clear that what I discussed earlier was about the President's conference board and proposed to take place right now. It's that the heads of the classes meet and discuss the situation here. Somehow, no one makes any bridges anywhere. It's necessary, topv. Prime Minister, coming down from the glass tower to us members of the council and the chairman of the government of the opposing parties to discuss how we can find reasonable solutions to the problems facing the community. I fear that all of this around the box is simply to cover the fact, what many in the community experience as the failure of the government to deal with these major problems. So I'd like to ask the highest. To see if we can find a solution together, the prime minister would feel that we do not need to meet, the president, to see if we can find a common solution. Or has the highest. Does the prime minister have no faith in the possibility of a future solution? I think it would help because it's just that when it's the highest. Prime Minister comes in a pita is as if everyone misunderstood him. I think this would be to make sure that such a big misunderstanding couldn't be done. Then I'm going to review the bills I hope to be coming in here so that we can take them up for material discussions and put them before this controversial issue on the box.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u48	A respectable president. The solution to the council must lie in discussing the matter. That's what we're here for. [[Up front.]] If people allow things to happen and they dare to reason instead of standing here for a whole day and discussing a meeting director, we will aim for something further, and then there will be something to discuss. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] But there's no point in keeping -- A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir It seems that Katrín Júlíusdóttir cannot sit and listen to one single answer without constant pleas. This may be because of what happened. A senator has been most aggressive in what I was to criticize earlier, to be here making a scene of nothing. But I'm going to keep on answering a question. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir... [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u49	The president asks why. Senators giving a sound during the highest order. Prime Ministers speak, as well as in general, when members of the Parliament are speaking in a public chair.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u50	A respectable president. For a person to have a meaningful and well - organized discussion, he must allow matters to get on the schedule. They must be ready to reason on them. It is not possible for a government to approach a representative of the object under threat as shown today, completely and clearly, that humans will not be allowed to discuss matters at the council unless they do as the government would like. In such a situation, a meeting cannot be held. On the other hand, if people continue the program, do it as expected, reason here, so it is probably important to hold a regular meeting with the government stand to discuss how we are going to let it get better. [[Up front.]] But to have some discussions with threats, as has been very clear today, threats that the council is not allowed to operate, is not a practical option, to a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u51	There's no other discussion about this, this is your last discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u52	President. I'll just be a little bit more impressed by the highest level of the case. Prime Minister. We have repeatedly called in the memory of a consultation with the government on these big and large issues that the government needs to pass over, such as the removal of the currency theft, the stable tax. Clearly, there is no interest, and expected no one can or will to solve the big issues. This is clear based on the answers given. The prime minister, therefore, has to threaten not to talk to the directors of the government unless we set the box on. That's amazing. But it's clear, and I'll just say on my behalf that I'm no reason to have any conversation about the end of the council with the government's lead.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u53	A respectable president. I understand the second question why. The senator so that the senator had completely changed his mind from that to his previous question. Nevertheless, I would like to reiterate that it is of course, and only natural, as is traditional in the end of Congress that men sit over organized affairs. However, we did not get close to the end of Congress, as matters are being done today and in recent days, where the government's opposition spends all the time in a discussion of the President's conference government, which is, of course, a gross abuse of that role. In fact, they have become so blind to what they are doing that they are calling for men in the Senate Hall to participate in a discussion about the chairmanship of the president. A respectable president. [[Up front.]] As long as we're in this situation, we can't get any closer to finishing our Senate work and then we just have to get ready to stay here for the next few weeks and months and when we see the country, we'll have a problem.... [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] The whole thing is a delicate, respectable president, and it must be uncomfortable for these fine people, eh? The senators, hearing it, and realizing it, as has come very clearly now, that all these agitation in the last few days, there was nothing behind him. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u54	A respectable president. On this beautiful spring day, there is reason to rejoice at the highest. The prime minister has arrived on his ass by forced transport to the staff of Fish Labs. However, as we welcome them for the complete victory of the staff, this is a very fine example of the management style of prime ministers. He uses thrifty and violence to people who stand for weeks and months, and when it comes to doing so, it proves to be a totally unnecessary, obvious solution to all views and not all of this war. Now, there seems to be another such expedition that the Senate is placed on its side day after day. On two occasions, Prime Minister or his government has provided a administrative bill, which the prime minister says is in the case of Hagming, put it into a novelty party. Here is a broad agreement on the bill of administration and its handling at the council. In fact, it is supported by a number of government council members who are attacking the specific activation. But, no, then it is corrupted that the government's own proposal will achieve some violence for completely untimely things that have just fallen away, now, at the first benefit, after three days, completely unnecessary warfare on priming matters, obviously. I must ask the highest. Prime Minister: Can we not be allowed to comment on the proposal of the government that she has twice made to attack in the Hagmbson attack? Can't the government make its own recommendation? May we, who support the government's proposal, not be allowed to support it here at the council? Does it really need to be damaged by this strange proposal from a greater part of the employment committee? It's not just Hagwater activation to the highest level. The secretary of the environment has said not to pass the law, that it is alsolasta, and will the prime minister of the next talk pass it on? She had serious doubts about the other two advantages at Urfyrus. [[The president calls.]] Is it not possible to pass the proposal of the government here, a respectable prime minister? Why do you stand in the way of that?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u55	A respectable president. There's been a story about the development of rock formation and other fortresses that will hopefully be discussed here today if the government's opposition has stopped talking about the President's conference board forever. This is what's being done because, in fact, the importance of helping them, the European Union of Iceland has not only requested but made a request, both for the Council's affairs and then repeatedly repeated by the German German government, in fact, not as far as the People's Association requested, I shall admit it, but I shall be taking steps to meet the requirements of the People's Common Association, and we shall hope that it will be a good introduction to the debates that are beyond the reach of the United Nations to which it will not be necessary to continue to increase valuable things in the country and improve the terms of the country. In fact, it's been going well for the past two years, power of trade has increased by 8% in the past two years, but to continue to increase money gain in Iceland, and hopefully to contribute to the success of acceptable results for all in the existing collective agreements, we need to continue to increase the value and to that end we need, among other things, energy, as the Common Union has repeatedly indicated. Even though we are not fully meeting the requirements of the German Union, we are taking steps and hopefully not allow the government to interfere with it for many more days.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u56	A respectable president. Dr. Sigmunda Gunnlaugsson Gunnugsson must be brought to his attention that he is not in a position of government, he is the prime minister of Iceland. The environmental ministers he has appointed, the Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson and Sigrún Magnúsdóttir, have both measured this position and have suggested a single priming option. His government has held meetings and decided to submit these proposals as a administrative bill. If it was a prime minister's conviction that it was necessary for energy to go much further, it is naturally incomprehensible that such a form of administration had developed. That's why I ask again, top dog. Prime Minister: Is it not possible to abandon the rest of these adjustments now in your second speech, since you seem to be able to compromise a proposal made three days ago as if nothing has come from the platform and only discuss the proposal made by your own government here at the council? Then there is complete agreement with the trial, even though some members of the council may be opposed to attacking this activation, but it is at peace with us and we who support your proposal will have the opportunity to support it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Can't the government only be supported by the government's opposition once in a while? [[The president calls.]] Is that against you, you respectable prime minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u57	A respectable president. I'm sorry to hear what you're talking about. A senator here talks down to the council, considering that the council should have no place but to do what comes from the government. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] There is much discussion and perspective on the job management committee that suggests the adjustment proposal that we must at least be ready to discuss, a respectable president. At least we must be ready to discuss a proposal from the council. Whatever the case, people must be able to agree on taking the matter into account, discussing that members of the council have the right to offer suggestions like the Supreme Court. In fact, the president had to decide, and hopefully he should be in the presence of an obvious president. A respectable president. Let us not speak to the council, as it were. Hjörvar Let's show the council respect and discuss the matter, why don't we reason with the proposal?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u58	V.E.G. President. I come up here to have a place to talk to. Secretary of health. I was going to ask him about the support systems to facilitate the movement of people. This work group returned a report with proposals in December last year, with results of a reimbursement in the local case group. The changes are subject to changes in the number of subsidies that strengthen and change the arrangements for the purchase of cars, and they are relatively low, though there are, of course, a further $300,000 cost. I'd like to ask you a few questions to the highest level. A health minister on this matter. The proposal is to paint the category on automobile and business support to the health insurance agency. So I want to ask the highest. Minister if these proposals are expected to be carried over to Iceland's Medical Insurance. I'd like to ask you when the right time to do that, and if you're taking the appropriate steps regarding the changes in the work and transport of employees. Most important, because next year's budget is now being prepared, Is there an increase in financial contributions, in line with the results of the report in the budget bill for 2016?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u59	A respectable president. The task force here made up a talker of what happened. The senator and his suggestions returned their proposals to the Ministry of Social Affairs on December 17th. Since then, the Ministry has been working with the suggestions under which they appear. I know that the social and housing minister is working on some financial proposals on this matter, but I don't know exactly where it is. At this moment, I do not have information about exactly how this work will end or how some suggestions will go. I simply wait for the releases from the Ministry's staff on the subject of how the ideas there will be taken care of.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u60	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. The health minister answers. Now it is revealed in his answer to the highest. The social and housing minister is working on this case, but the group suggested that a large proportion of the group would be able to go to Iceland's Medical Insurance and, therefore, have to take steps both with legal adjustments and with the management of health insurance agencies so that the group could be prepared. These suggestions greatly improve and simplify the system to users. I'd like to remind you that you're not free if you can't move. This is a big interest issue for a relatively large group of people. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister again, whether or not there is a way to proceed with the move to Iceland's Medical Insurance. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u61	A respectable president. I agree that there are many of the suggestions there is for a great improvement, and there is a need for it. Some of these suggestions have been linked to Iceland's Medical Insurance and, of course, other factors. In order for them to become reality, there would need to be some suggestions on how to change the law. This will not happen during this council, but it may be in the fall election coming. On the one hand, the overall assessment of the cost of the working group's initiatives is over 210 million, if I remember correctly. It's all in progress right now. I agree with what. A senator on the subject that the suggestions presented there are for the benefit of the people in need of these refinements.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u62	A respectable president. In response to a inquiry earlier, it was explained by the highest degree. A prime minister from the fact that this was being done here, as it were, in good Icelandic, in the back room of a subject scheduled for today's program. V.E.G. The prime minister does not seem to realize that we are here for a second time. of a synonym, which means that this is a final discussion, when he tells us that he is ready to talk to us when we are finished. V.E.G. The prime minister does not seem to realize where the matter is, unless he is making fun of us or does not know the Senate. I assume there must be some recession in this meeting to do the highest. The position of the matter at the council is explained by the prime minister and because it cannot be discussed with the government here when the discussion of this matter is fully over with what it will be after this second issue. End. That is why, a dignified president, is so important to us that we are being listened to now and not when the matter is under consideration. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u63	A respectable president. I do not comment on the fact that the president will take the second part on the program, assuming that there may be good agreements in the council, as when it is right. But if there was any reason for us to be in a tone of mind about the President's conference board these past few days, there is a half more reason to do so today. We said that the matter was neglected and totally vague on the basis of what it was presented. Of course, that proved to be true when the ultimate one. During this morning's session, the prime minister announced that a minister of the government had agreed with a greater part of the employment committee that there was an entirely different proposal to be discussed here later than at the council. Then members of Congress will ask what their position is, what position it is, what position it is, and the position of the greater part of the employment committee or environmental minister to negotiate with it for some particular legal arrangement. A respectable president. I'm telling you, by the end of this week, I don't even know where this case is anymore. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u64	A respectable president. V.E.G. The prime minister who is no longer with us suggested that we allow matters to take place. I agree with that with the highest. Prime Minister, we are expected to allow matters to take place on a program prepared for the council. This case is clearly not prepared to be discussed, since there is no interest in discussing it while a lot of other matters are needed here, except for simply the time of the senators who seem to believe in it, in contrast with what many seem to believe. That's what the top says. Minister for opposition to argument. Good if it wasn't in the same speech, at least a very close talk that he spoke of an agreement that no one in the government has ever heard of, about how to change the motion. What are we going to reason here? Shall we come into a peninsula, and be kind to him, saying, "Plis, the highest." Prime Minister, could you please listen to us? Please! What are we gonna do? [[The president calls.]] What's this farce, Mr. Honorable President? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u65	It's tempting for a president less than that. A member of the Parliament is Icelandic.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u66	A respectable president. We're in the second round. ... ofa Parliamentary proposalof the highest order. Environment and resource secretary with a greater part of the work programme where environmental secretary's proposal is five-fold. It's a second round. and at the end of it, it is expected that a decision will be made. This is the situation. Then comes the Prime Minister and introduces the adjustment proposal in consultation with an environmental minister, as I understand the situation. I'm just asking the highest. President: was the highest. President informed of this agreement? Indeed, it is very unusual. The prime minister enters the discussion in this way and then calls out the word for reasoning when he merely throws in some adjustment proposal for a change. I ask: Does it take three days to retrace which of these activations to the end of the section? [[The president calls.]] If that is the case, let's just take three days each of these activations and then run them all back together. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] However, a respectable president must be meeting with members of the council because the proposal is no longer on the program. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u67	The matter, of course, is the custody of the council as well as the members of Congress, as well as the ministers and other members of Congress, can make adjustments in the suggestions available. Hv. Senators know that. It is then the role of the Parliament to take such a stand. This has been presented with this specific adjustment proposal, even though it was not distributed or submitted.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u68	V.E.G. President. I've been thinking a lot about it since the time of inquiry back then as high as I can. The prime minister used the matter to change and criticize us at the same time for discussing this subject with us at the end of a meeting with the president. Has the highest. At one time, the president had a strong reason to take this matter off, to have some discussion about it outside the council hall, and to put other matters on the schedule, according to the highest answers. Prime Minister. He had two messages about matters that are very much in the discussion today and that were asking for reasoning. It shows changes in the tax system and the final number of tax steps. Are we discussing it today? Are we discussing any ideas about what route we have? It can be understood that this suggestion of activation is inserted into a hearty speech. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] If ASI is doing this as a requirement, why don't we not discuss it? That's what's at the highest. The prime minister was informing us about the matter. I think, chief. President, that it is important that these matters be addressed as part of a part of a program on the matter of choice, with prime minister waiting for answers. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u69	Mr. President. I'll be very informed about form under this team, for shape is the key to a democracies community, that we respect the form. And the formality was still made by this declaration. The prime minister, who tells us that an agreement has already been made to change the arrangement set before us. It's a complete formality, except that the suggestion reflects the highest degree. The prime minister, who wanted to deny that this was a way of dealing with the criticism presented here, shows that he has not listened to the discussion, since all the benefits displayed by changes in the motion of a greater part of the public committees are burned at the same time, i.e. that the project management has not completed their coverage. For this reason, the report gives clear evidence to the highest degree. Environment Minister who was put here in the fall. As long as this adjustment is done in here, where a legal process is passed, it cannot be completed, that's just the way it is. [[The president calls.]] We must begin to respect this form, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u70	President wants to agree with what. A senator's counsel on such matters. A senator said about its shape and value. Therefore, it is clear that a formal adjustment proposal has not been made to the adjustment proposed by the majority of the committee. However, it has been presented that such a suggestion might be made. Alternatively, the council cannot take sides with her. That's what the President wants. In terms of meeting with members of Parliament, it is a matter of self - determination that we have completed the second part of the program below.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u71	Mr. President. This discussion is always getting sourer and sourer, and it did not improve the best. The prime minister of the discussion made her even more suspicious and strange. He speaks into her like he's on the moon, he didn't watch out what's going on, what the benefits are under there, and what's been called after, that the law of a frame plan was adhered to. He has not observed any criticism that has come from two sources that this is not a legal process. It would be interesting to hear what you hear. Parliaments, more than part of the work board, deal with the proposed changes to the highest level. The prime minister puts forth here. It's very strange. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson did not present the adjustment proposal, which should be agreed with the greater part of the employment committee and the highest. Environment Minister. What's going on? Is this work okay? No.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u72	President. If it wasn't a serious matter, you'd call it a sort of charade right here, especially because it's not quite clear what a suggestion we're discussing. It would be interesting to know, for example, whether a president has been announced earlier today about the informalized proposal to the highest degree. Prime Minister mentioned. If it is not clear what to talk about, what does the administrative body want to continue with this discussion? When should this be taken into account, when is this adjustment proposed? The President of the Parliament knew about it before the Grand Prix. The prime minister announced it as a missus in a speech chair earlier? It's natural for nothing. It's absolutely unprecedented.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u73	Mr. President. This was a topic of formality, and it has been discussed as to what the coming of the council should be. It appears that there was an agreement between the Commission, in view of the highest level. The prime minister announced before, by - well, I don't know if it's the head of the trade committee or other members of that body that are on this proposal, but it's at least obvious that the Commission has had something to say what to try to do. I'll say like more, if I'm at the top. A president of the United States has known of this has been expected to arrange for a meeting with members of the council this morning. This should not be done in the way this is done. I allow myself to say, sire President, that I think the need is full, and I'm not speaking down to people, that there will be a study in the Environment Ministry with the members of Congress that would appear to be not to know what is going on. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u74	On this occasion, the president would like to say that he disagrees completely. Senator. It is reasonable that changes made to the Council and the plans to make a new arrangement should be introduced at the General Assembly for all members of the Parliament in the same way. [[The point is, it's not...]] Only the president wants to maintain this, and then, of course, a change in proposal, will be made out of the fact that it will be moved, in a formal manner at the council. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u75	A respectable president. I deeply regret that I have come up here and made myself unhappy about the activities of the council during the recent conference board. I see now, of course, a man should agree to the proposed things of the government and sit on his dissatisfaction. After this has been approved and considered, let us make a resolution. Isn't this the highest speech? President wants to hear? You're not supposed to say, too: Great is accomplished. The prime minister decided to abandon Hagwater activation? It was certainly the most controversial option that was to be moved to a novelty party, but the others are too. This is not a suggestion for reconciliation. I'm going to talk about the President's conference board because I think it's drawing up to the highest level. A president who makes the program application is to abuse this authority. It bothers me, I'm going to object, and I'm going to continue to protest it while he does it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u76	The president has only called attention to the fact that it is his opinion that when a change is made, it is most natural that she is introduced or simply submitted to the council. There was nothing else that the president forced to resign from the chair.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u77	President. First, I'm going to give a tip to the president from a number of public listeners that the sound of the bell gets very bad in the ears of listeners. I'd like to ask the President to consider that. We're at a council where the majority of the pieces are in charge, not true, chief. President? At least that's the message we've received. I have to say, it's not because of any special pleasure or joy that I'm participating here in trying to harm the President's conference board. We're in what I used to call the last season of theater a bit of absurdity. I have no joy at all. I want to reiterate that there is a meeting between the heads of the classes to review how we are going to conduct the Senate. It's unannounced, Mr. President, to the highest. The prime minister will appear here and threaten that there will be no meetings between the presidents if we do not meet with his insistence that we stop applying ourselves for an uncontracted case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u78	Mr. President. I was going to talk about it, like cot. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. There have been two democracies. Environment Minister, on the one hand in her speech in which she said that there was so much democracy in the advance party that it would probably be felt that the members of the Parliament voted by a form which the Environment Ministry feels is at odds with the laws involved. However, it was noted earlier in the highest range. Prime Minister that this was an expression of democratic love. Environment Minister that she had been prepared to agree to take one priming option out of the proposal. I don't know if she's going to support the whole mess that remains, although, in her own opinion, the law applies. Mr. President. This situation is unacceptable, and meetings and meetings must be interrupted immediately. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u79	The president had previously reported that after the end of a 2nd meeting, a election in the management board, the president intends to have a meeting with members of the council, and then, of course, will be interrupted.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u80	A respectable president. I thank the President for making that request because there are no normal situations here and therefore you can't apply yourself to the application of the suggestions normally. This final discussion is being followed, and it was decided by the administrative part to make a very dramatic change in the Parliamentary arrangement into a subsequent year. Here is a very unusual situation, and it is not an invitation to the government. Rather, we are simply trying to influence progress in the limited circumstances that we are offered. I would like to ask for a material answer from the highest. As to whether he had considered the legal status of the case from the Environment and Resource Ministry and the Ministry of Employment when he wrote his decision presented earlier this week. [[The president calls.]] I would like to get the answer to this question because there is a crying inconsistencies between the decision and the opinion of these two counselors. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u81	The kindly informed president that those two advisers were among the data that the president had in mind to prepare for a decision.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u82	A respectable president. V.E.G. The prime minister arrived in the public talk earlier and explained that an agreement had been made, not between the smaller part of the council and the greater part, not between the government and the government, but between the head of the trade committee and the Supreme Court. Environment Minister to withdraw one of the advantages considered to make more part of the employment committee. It's amazing to me. It was the highest. Environment Minister to negotiate on behalf of the government's opposition at the peace meeting that was held there? Would it not, then, be considered that we should at least be involved in that agreement? In my mind, this change is similar to the fact that people would report that they had stopped putting nuclear power plants in Thorsmarks and an oil treatment station in the Landsalarium. [[The president calls.]] These contracts, which are like players playing soccer, are not decent. I'm not going to be a part of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u83	A respectable president. This is very interesting because what we see here is negotiations between the government parties. We see them here in public, and not for the first time. I ask a respectable president with me to lie his eyes back and think about it when the advance party declared that he would never stand with an increase in food tax, which was 12% in the prime minister of finance. What happened next? It won a wonderful victory on the part of the candidates, and it became 11%. The same methodology is here, the number of activations is reduced by one, and the prime minister himself is so pleased with the preparation of the forward party that he comes here and cares. This is the Icelandic government today. This is the situation in Iceland. There are negotiations between the members of the board for the great, gradual, small contributions of the Agency in all things.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u84	V.E.G. President. I agree with the last speaker, which is the main news at any given time when it is successful to make peace between the ruling parties. As a result, there seems to be no energy to deal with others in the Assembly Hall. V.E.G. Apparently, a president has an incomprehensible desire to have a plan for protection and energy use on his schedule, and I ask: In line with his wishes to discuss and reason, does the president make sure that the adjustment he made before making is done by a prime minister so that we can have an opportunity to speak with him at the council? Very much. The president will ensure that the Environment Minister will be in the hall, participate in the discussion, and discuss matters? This is very important to me because there is a new introduction in the discussion and before we talk completely dry in the future. with regard to the Senate arrangement, it is not worse to get all the cards on the table.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u85	Mr. President. What I was talking about earlier when I talked about the highest. The prime minister announced this is that the same has happened at the council. I know this, though, that I'm not covered by Congress experience. Men have approached one another and women and have discussed matters that are so important to try to find surfaces before being announced at the Assembly Hall. This government is preaching a great deal of cooperation and cooperation. However, she does not want to leave, especially if the government groups are trying to make peace with one another. Do not expose themselves to the position of government in an effort to land matters in any way, since this is obviously to be forced through. As we have seen, the government is prepared to resist this issue all the way. To say that this is a way of making peace, a respectable president, is rude in view of the situation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u86	A respectable president. Here we go. People up there, beating their breasts and complaining, as if it were coming from time to time. Congress officials are surprised to learn that there is a solution to this matter. It's like people come from all over the mountains. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] I thought they were aware of the situation. Is there anything unnatural about a minister and a greater part trying to figure out a solution to this impenetrable? Hv. Parliaments are naturally accustomed to such scenes in closed rooms, and no one knows about them until the patent solution exists. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u87	We're in the Senate Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u88	All we have to do is figure it out. That's as easy as it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u89	Then take it off schedule...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u90	Mr. President. I feel that this has become quite a release to the council and to a small number of formalities. Now, last time, here comes why. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson spoke of the self - determination of a feeling. To whom are they to be felt? Is it customary for a person to feel himself when he is solving such a problem? [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Isn't there a common reference to palpation? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. He has taken Haga water activation in a professional opinion, and now he suggests that it has not been professional enough on the basis of a greater part of the employment committee's work on Haga water activation. That's why he's making a move to withdraw it. Let's just wait for some more professional assassins from the government. [[The president calls.]] It's become so weird that he's not open to people.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u91	A respectable president. I couldn't get into it before, thank you very much. A president for the privilege of meeting with him afterward on the progress of this case. Of course, one would have wanted us to sit over it at an earlier stage and try to figure it out, since it wasn't in the past. In fact, I'm saying that as early as Monday, we could have made sure that if these adjustments were made, they would be in a lot of trouble. It's not to be surprised that there's been a lot of excitement here. There's nothing to consider in this case but that these changes in the employment committee will all be retracted, and then people like me, who oppose the attack on Hagming, at least, say that the process was all respected. Then I personally oppose this activation, personally against the change in landscapes it involves. [[The president calls.]] But the project has been respected because it is the only creative idea the project management proposed to be brought between classes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u92	Mr. President. In discussions about the activities of the council, the theater of the absurdity has been referred to, and other names have been used to describe the situation here. I can't believe the President's getting worried. The president with all his political experience must have realized when this case was scheduled that there would be a great and long discussion and debate on the subject. Here's what we're offering. Councilmen and the highest. In fact, when it is obvious that the only reconciliation in the case is to propose a project and make a recommendation, the prime minister is to make a recommendation. Environment Minister. That's where the peace lies, and that's where we're supposed to go. Political horse weddings from a public speaker and the highest. Counsellors can be likened to the theater of the absurd. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u93	A respectable president. It will be interesting to hear what comes out of a meeting that the president has promised with the council members after. In order for things to go well for the rest of the council, I'm hoping that the solution will be the case. paritaprevir A daughter of Harðardóttir G., mentioned earlier, that the proposal as it was proposed to the council will be considered here. A battle effort should focus on the fact that there is peace and not some act by making one of the four options added to the original proposal. I'm referring to the President that he is trying to help the outcome of these errors, and then I think a lot of things are going to roll ahead that everyone can enjoy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u94	A respectable president. It always bothers me a little when you talk about democracy like there's some left-over size of a speech just so you can finish some answer here. I think it's the best. The prime minister has been doing this today when he spoke of the matter being scheduled and that this is where we were going to hold a critical argument on the subject and probably convince each other. Councilmen of the greater part or of the highest degree. Minister on the option to reject this change proposal on the grounds of being made out of the cow. But we all know how this works here. This does not work out, so each senator sits down and thinks, " What do you think is the right conclusion? ' No, councilmen make decisions in this council hall according to what they are told when they are in that position. It's the reality we live in. It bothers me when men act like this process is more democratic than it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u95	A respectable president. I rejoice that this is a meeting, or at least it has been announced, by members of the council in order to consider the matter better. I just want to tap one thing because I'm concerned that certain activations have been added to this modification proposal to move the line to an unexplained place so that I can then negotiate for something else, so that I can then begin to negotiate the activations of the server or something like that. For example, naturalists do not speak for Hlammic activation. Where's the line on that side? Yet, they are still in their language, saying: "We're going to follow the decision of the project management program. They give up a lot, just to be told, and we're clear. That does not mean going to another line and dragging it somewhere else into the sand and going to the Council. [[The president calls.]] We must follow the rules, just as they do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u96	A respectable president. Since my comments from a government meeting this morning were quoted in an unprecedented question period earlier today, I think it is proper to tell the Council that it is right. Prime Minister, that I took a frame plan up in the government. I wanted to discuss the situation, and it was discussed back and forth. That's where I said it was the highest. One minister explained that it was normal for me to think that more of the employment committees would retract Hagah water reactivation and that it would not be included in this discussion. That's what I said after talking to all the agents in the greater part of the trade committee. They agreed that this would be the way it would be done, that it would be normal, if the Environment and Resource Minister could not support the conversion of this option. All the time from this talk, I've said that I don't get my priorities and that I couldn't support it, so I'm not changing my mind. I think it's a bit misleading what has happened to some members of the council. I received as a minister for the year's convention, and my predecessor brought in the whale explosion, and she was a member of Congress when I took over, and I have not taken part in that contingency. So this case is for the treatment of the council and is now in here and we have a committee view from that job. I must say, I feel that the committee has worked quite well and called many guests, and it is clear that it was handled in a good way. Thus, all members of the General Assembly have been aware of the work that has taken place on a professional committee during the winter, five benefits have been covered. There's nothing new. There's nothing new about people planning that they'd come here for a press conference. That's how we work, and it's been on the committee for six months. Now these suggestions are given here, and it is my earnest desire that it be passed away from the use of Hagah's water activation. This is especially so because if we return to Project No. 2 of them is a projection on a framework plan, on the three benefits of Þjóróttur and Rock Sea and Hague, and other benefits. The three benefits of the Þjórðar are divided into a panorama of energy, as well as Sterogical, but the Lake Hagags are set up as a waiting party. So these five activation initiatives have been through the history of the professional groups of project management, and thus they give professional publicity to our most skilled experts. I don't think that's a dispute. In addition, the energy at Þjótur has been repeated professionally discussed by project management in stage 3. It should be noted that on July 12, 2013, a minister appointed an appendix to the topic letter and assigned it to prioritize her work so that it would be performed as soon as possible to evaluate the six activations made from a waiting category in the second stage. The benefits are Uryr following activation, Holtic activation, Impulsion, Cavitation, Cooperative Reactivation and Haggis, and Halloweda at Atley. These advantages were asked by a minister, my predecessor, a project leader, at the beginning of Step 3. The task management felt that he had not had enough time to discuss all these advantages requested by the minister, i.e. six choices, but specifically discussed the three benefits of the Þjórjósar. As a result, a project manager felt that he had not yet completed the case in the late fall and had an evaluation of the Inhibition. In comment on a frame plan, in the law on a protection and energy efficiency programme, 48/2011, it says right: 3mg. it shows that the protection and innovation programmes take place in the implementation of initiatives discussed by the Project Management Board. In this respect, the Council does not take sides in methods of activation that are different from those discussed by the Project Management Board. As I have said, these advantages were discussed in phase two, and now in the beginning of Step 3, the benefits of the Þjójósar have been discussed. On May 12 of this year, the U.S. President of Generalis ruled by No. 48/2011 not clear, or as it says, by permission of the president: ▪... not clear on whether to look at the discussion of the 2nd stipulation of a framework plan that formed the first Allied resolution on the strategy and protection and energy efficiency of land areas, January 14, 2013, No. 13/141, as a start and as time went on, new data would be added due to upcoming activation options. This is a word from the President's decision on May 12 of the past. As other members of Congress, I consider the matter to be a judicial hearing, as indicated by his findings. I don't think I need to have any further comments on this, but I wanted to come up here first in order to explain that the case was discussed in the government in this way and explain what I said about the understatement of Hagwater activation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u97	A respectable president. I felt like the highest. A minister would suggest that Lake Hagah had been removed from a waiting party. It isn't, and I hope I've heard it wrong, and she doesn't believe it was, but she indicated it here. I'm going to quote the controversial opinions of the Environment and Resource Ministry, which says, by permission of the President: The Organization has not provided a suggestion for the classification of these costs for the Minister and for the synonym now available for the Council. Therefore, the Environment and Resource Department's assessment of law no. 48/2011 does not assume that the General will be able to change the category of these costs since the legal process of protection and energy efficiency has not been established in this respect. That's the Ministry. A minister who says this exactly about the Cradle and Hague Lake. I'm asking the highest. A minister whether she is here to make a decision to ignore the legal opinions of the experts in her ministry because this is done by granting these suggestions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u98	A respectable president. I'm not ignoring something or anything. I'm explaining to the Congress a word and a speech that took place in Iceland's government this morning, that I would very much like to see it changed in the Parliament's resolution so that there wouldn't be any water generation. That's all I was explaining. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u99	A respectable president. V.E.G. Minister is the minister of the Iceland government. She discussed it at a government meeting that she envisions that changes can be made in the controversial change proposal in this room so that Lake Hags can be taken out of that picture. It's the highest. A minister here describing himself as a perfect lack of influence? What are they saying here? The words of a minister in a government that the prime minister of the United States makes clear in this chair are important. And already the highest. Secretary says only to take out Hague Lake and introduce it here in this chair is she saying at the same time she's going to ignore the legal evaluation of her experts at the Environment and Resource Ministry. You can't say the highest. A minister has been meaning something else because pushing the button by any of these changes that go through here is what she is doing. [[The president calls.]] And it sounds like she was doing it right away.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u100	A respectable president. There's no vote here and now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u101	It's a final talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u102	Madam President. In a memo it's like a dog. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir quoted from the Department of Environment and Resources as stating that both Hag Lake and Scrotordium do not specifically comment on this activation option. Actually, there are three others. So I'd like to ask if the exact same thing applies to Red Rock and Hague Lake, such as the highest. In fact, environmental ministers have already indicated by their words. However, I would like to ask, " Is this not a duty to the highest level? ' Environment Minister to be in charge of a framework program that also has not completed coverage of Holtleization and Uryr deactivation. It is very well explained in this same Ministry memo. Ministers that to take sides in Holtic activation and inflation procedures, certain information needs to be provided regarding the aims of counter-important measures aimed at protecting fish stocks, as well as the vast value of salmon farms in Þjódraða.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u103	A respectable president. I don't know how I'm going to try to explain these matters. I feel that, if I may say so here, there's a difference between the coverage ofpture and Hag Lakes because Project 2 was dealing with all these benefits, talking about Thress, Rock and Hague. The professional government and subgroups decided to place the benefits in Þjórðar in energy generation as well as in Stockholm, instead of Lake Hagues. That's why I say if I'm going to follow a professional assessment, Lake Hagab was already in phase two for a waiting party, so I think it's only natural that it's not put into a novelty party now. [[The president calls.]] All the other groups have been placed in a professional work programme in energy efficiency. Since then, all three benefits have been specifically considered in the first phase of the third phase. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u104	Madam President. V.E.G. Minister says it's hard to explain. I totally understand what's going on. Minister's what we're talking about. That's what's at the top. A minister is saying that she is not taking any notice of the current task management, that she is going to accept a frame management program in stage 2 but will ignore the current task management that is expected to work hard to complete the assessment of these groups. V.E.G. Ministers believe that it is enough to look to their previous task management. It describes a lack of confidence in the current project management and its own Ministry, which says in a memorandum that activation of the Tankurus, the University of I and II, Hags and Hólmást at Atley is still under way for the project management of the Environment and Resource Ministry, the Project Management Board has not submitted a proposal for the sorting of these costs, and therefore the Ministry's assessment that the Act does not assume that the World Council could change the category of these costs as the legal process of protection and energy efficiency has not been submitted to them. [[The president calls.]] It's the highest. A minister disagrees with his own department?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u105	A respectable president. I have a lot of faith in a project management of a frame plan. One of my first jobs when I took over a year was calling the chairman of a project manager and saying that we were starting a new career. We set aside time schedule, decided to do a work together, and we have worked very well together. I wanted to be able to work in such a way that at last it would be a peace of this tool created by the Allied Parliament. [[Up front.]] I accept a custom set out here. In the fall, when I began my therapy, I was in Congress, and I have not interfereed with that therapy. I haven't been.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u106	...now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u107	...the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u108	You can talk about meetings now. I was saying to my opinion that since Lake Hagah never had, either in phase 2 or in phase 3, I was placed in an energy response party, I would not be satisfied that we had that activation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u109	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the speech. Now it's drawing up very clearly. Simply put, Project 2 is to be taken into account or taken into consideration, and then forget everything that follows. The Law on Framework does not expect it to be just Project 1 and then 2 and then it's over. There are a number of task directors waiting to work forward and sail away from waiting for activation and protection. That's the nature of a frame plan. If the highest. The minister's gonna let it get so upset that the next subsequent task management may not have anything to say about it, I think we should just stop right now. Let's not waste money making people work things that don't matter. It's just a bunch of bullshit. It was her Ministry and a member earlier in this same Ministry that found that the only legal practice that would remain under the control of the project, and I ask: Is it in another matter? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u110	A respectable president. No, I don't agree with that. I said that last night from that chair, and I'm not changing it now, okay? A senator may not have been present, that I no doubt had handled the situation the same as did my president of the Ministry when he hoped he would receive all six talents, of course, it was a little time, and he also hoped that he could enter these three qualities at Þturð. He didn't get it so that he'd send Haggis in here for coverage. I guess I would have done exactly the same thing. You can never tell 100% how you drive back in time. That's what I'm doing. Then it went to a professional committee, and this is where it has been proposed. I'm describing where I'm setting the line, that I don't feel that Hag-water activation is a good thing for you to vote on. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u111	A respectable president. My intelligence cannot control this, I must admit it. I still don't understand, Madam President, answers to the highest. Environment Minister. If you can take out Hag Lake alone, but she's still in it and maybe you'd have done just like your former minister - I just don't understand it, I'm sorry. I have to ask the highest. Ministers to explain this to me more fully and perhaps to others who are not completely involved. It seems to me that the question is, "Suit at the highest. " Ministers not the work as the current task management management of framework, No. 3 In what way did she work for her prehuman existence? Doesn't she support the work of her own department? And why are we talking here all of a sudden, the Allied Work Board as some kind of project manager? [[The president calls.]] Where's that coming from?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u112	A respectable president. I'm sorry for the words I'm going to drop here. I couldn't understand this speech. A member of Parliament because the president of the Generals has decided that what came from a professional committee is being met. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] We have a decision and we have the case for Congress. There's nothing to tell if I'm supporting my people in the Ministry or not. [[Up front.]] I testify again, by permission of the President, to the council order: ▪ When considering the overall evidence given here, it is more likely that the basis for the activation already exist for a professional assessment of the grammatical views that should be based on a protection and energy efficiency programme. [[The president calls.]] According to this, the legislation on the protection and energy efficiency programme should not lead to the dismissing of the change proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u113	Madam President. Thank you very much. A minister for a very interesting talk that I am still trying to figure out. According to a minister, prior task management and its decision should be looked at, but in the law on the protection and energy efficiency programmes, it is preliminaryly recommended that a pact proposal should be made for a reporting process. This was done, and new information was produced in that process. What would have been the highest. A minister would like to repair this new information other than to move the activation option to a waiting party where there are activation options requiring further consideration?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u114	A respectable president. In a way, I'm disappointed that we talk about these fine, professional and current task management programs because I have a lot of faith in their tactics and would have chosen that you could follow their suggestions. [[Up front.]] I would have liked to take pride in that. Of course, it's okay to judge me like everyone else that I don't work like a Senate, but maybe I've looked at the matter and I didn't want to interfere more because I've felt it was AlIIa's job to cover it up. I am constantly repeating that in the same way the President of the Generals decided that this was a press conference. [[The president calls.]] I've already read out the verdict, so why don't you learn what he said at the beginning of the case?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u115	Madam President. My question was not about whether the proposal was legal or not, nor did I ask the highest. Minister what she would have wanted to do with new information that came from a narrative process before her last draft was agreed on a frame plan. That question answered the highest. Minister not. V.E.G. The minister does not want to be talked down by the task management board, either the first or the new one, nor was I doing so. That, however, is the highest. A minister who is unwilling to accept the current task management, and therefore we in this room must ask: What about the results that this project management brings? Very much. A minister will listen to them? Why does it hold the highest. Ministers that political coverage is better qualified to establish peace in this great and important category than the results of the current task management? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u116	A respectable president. A groundwork project manager is a minister's consultant and just set up because it's a complex business process. A wide variety of viewpoints must be taken into account, and this tool was made content. I look at this tool and believe that, of course, we should listen to it. However, the final decision being made in this council hall awaits me, as it were all in this room, to decide how to vote when this council arrangement comes to a vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u117	A respectable president. I'm glad we're having a busy discussion, at last. Now, on the third day of this discussion, we are beginning with the talk on these important matters and the third, apart from the above - mentioned discourse. Minister. Sadly, there has been no much material discussion about these activation options, which most of the employment committee suggest will be added to a novelty class. The main issues have been discussed as to whether it is a member of the council and whether the law is being violated in spite of the court's decision in the matter, as the norm insists. I'm going to try in my speech to argue. These matters are called for, despite the fact that individual members of the Parliament believe they are not. I'm going to quote with permission from President ASI, the union: ▪ The development of the resources of the country is of national importance and is the basis for the social well - being and improved living conditions for which the labor movement is involved. Is it so trivial? Aluminium companies provide 10% of the gross domestic product for society. 700 companies, small and medium-sized, serve these companies. In my opinion, there's not much at stake, and in many places it's called after activation. If we begin with the lower part of Tubular wounds, then a greater part of the employment committee will suggest Holling and Urtic acid activation will be replaced by a waiting category with Inching Reactivation, as agreed by Project 2 step-by-step program. These fortresses may have given a full ladder to all four professionals who took a good time to study these subjects and reached that conclusion. It was not solely on task management 3, to recommend only the use of Inhibition and yielded a representative of the European Commission, Elín Líndal, a specialistite in which she suggested that all three benefits of lower Major Injuries be removed from the waiting party to the colony. According to the National Institute of Energy, with the approval of a synonym the proposal has been removed from the professional results of the previous task management because of three water activation options in the southern part of the country, all in the Þjordur. It was assumed that the most practical and best-examined activation options would be removed from a waiting group from energy efficiency category. A lot of reporters recommend that these three options be transferred to a colony class. The industrial organisation, the Power Institute, and others believe that the project management has gone beyond its workspace with data requirements far beyond what a framework plan assumes for environmental assessments. If at that time the environmental minister had followed the law and confirmed community planning, they would even be initiating electricity production this year and the next, i.e. 2015 and 2016. I'm going to let me quote just a few comments on these matters. This is from ASI, by permission of the President: A fraction of three activation options, i.e. Impulse activation, Holtic activation, and Uryrofostic activation, now proposed to become a waiting party, had a full house of stairs (A) in all the trade groups. Thus, the evidence presented for the transfer of these innovation options from the waiting category is unfaithful and not based on professional practices. The ASI central management assessment is that the original proposal for a project management is most likely to create an agreement and encourage the General Assembly to follow the results of the previous task management. There are several more than just a few members of the Parliament or more of the work committee that recommend this activation. The Sunnian Company Association, followed by the review, was followed at the meeting of the Allied Advisory Committee on November 12, November, by permission of presidents: ▪ The Head of SASS stresses that the Allied Council amasses the subject on the basis of the more cross-cutting work done by the Management Board and its proposals for the classification of the activation initiatives in a reservation, a waiting party, and a novelty. According to project recommendations, four of the six water - power activation initiatives were available in the Southland of the Neon class. The scheme assumes that they will all go to a waiting party. In view of the SESS, it is unacceptable not only because there is no strong evidence for their proposals but also because of the expected follow-up work structure, there is a major interest concern for the southern population. SASS will therefore challenge the creation of the General Assembly for proposals of the project management on the products to be introduced into a novelty category. Those who don't realize that this is a big part of a job building in the South, and in Iceland, it's pretty reality, I say. Iceland's Union of Iceland, it's all rural communities, says about Holtling and Urnar deactivation, with permission of presidents: The Environment Management Board on Framework 2 suggested, after a long and very careful consultation process, that all three of the activations in lower part of Tubes would be added to a novelty party. On behalf of the local community and other stakeholders, serious comments were made regarding the changes made by the minister to the proposal of a project, leading to all three activation options being taken to a waiting party. The rationale for the change in the order of three activations in below Þjórðar was that the effect of salmon fish in the Þjódra was mainly better investigated. Experts'opinion of the subject now exists, as well as their detailed answers to national action. In the opinion of the experts, helpful tips are provided that should be taken into account the design of the inducers and the version of the inducers and projections provided in later stages. It is estimated that with the opinion and response of Land-activation, there has been a credible response to the prognostications that led to the deportation of project management on frame 2 and therefore there is no basis for support that all three of the priming options are now being replaced into a new frame series. In case of a moment. The members of Congress want to understand only those who have not studied, that while priming has entered a category, this does not mean that they will be activated. The evaluation of the environmental impact of implementation is followed by the opinion that these observations on the lower part of the host are applicable. There will be additional licences, e.g. Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. This is only after the creative process can begin. For the other three activations, i.e. Scorpio I and the Sharkism II, who were moved out of a waiting party at the same time on the basis of negative narratives, are tempted to do the same now because there are many references to moving all six priming options from a waiting-to-new group that cross the professional assessment of project management in frame 2 were moved from the group to wait, Passage I, Highway II and Scorpio. The European Union is a member of the United States of Iceland, the European Union of Iceland, the Energy, the Union, and the Icelandic hydropower. All of these six advantages have been discussed in a project management program, as the law expects. In spite of this, the majority of the employment committees simply suggest that Stockholm will be put in the utilisation and the March I and the March II hall wait for the next traffic. What does the environmental effects of the rock - mass have? There won't be any central pole, it's below the ground, just less than a six-mile strike that will be seen outside the road. Ignoring the conclusion of the second stage of the project management, I feel a little humiliated. There was a lot of work to be done in this report, as it were. Senators know. That's why I don't think it's done very much by just pointing to the next one, that she's an ostracism because the 3rd is here. I want to point 'em. The members of Parliament shall have a second stage of this dowry, a great deal of work. [[Senator reports a report.]] The clergy discussed these matters. I think it was 66 assets that were covered by all the professional groups. There's a lot less work than that. The Environment and Resource Minister set up an Annex to the Work Programme's Address Book, where proposals are directed to the Management Board to prioritise their work so that it can be performed as soon as possible a professional assessment of the six activation options made from a series of proposals to a waiting period of reviews for the rest of the stipulation programme and the two options not adequately evaluated in the activities of the previous project management, i.e. Hag Lake and Hallowed at Atley. It was requested that no later than February 15 February 2014 [...] be provided by the project director's proposal for the above-mentioned benefits. In the autumn of 2013, it became clear that it would address only the three activations in the lower part of the winter, as discussed in chapter 12 on the greater part of the European Parliament's Environment and Transport Committee on the current protection and energy efficiency programmes. According to Article 10. track No. 48/2011 on the practicality and court treatments the projection board proposed its proposals for Ministers of March 21. The committee says after a few comments, with the permission of the president: There are too much detailed data required, especially in the case of counter-improvement procedures. [...] Comments on this point occurred. published by Jehovah's Witnesses. 5, 12, 14 and 28. It points out that the data requested by the project management have been far more detailed than is expected to be available for planning the organizational level. A project management recognizes that the data required for her work in this round are more detailed than usual planning. However, in the opinion of the project management, it was not possible to perform the project otherwise, for it was so few that the costs could not be arranged as expected in the methodology of a framework... In other words, it was not as thorough as they could not reassign the benefits. The last words say, by permission of the president: The methodology does not allow assessment of single activation options or very few activation options, as no significant comparison between costs can be made. For the benefits that were not set up into Phase 3 we must support a second phase, where there are years behind that work. [[For example, you don't know anything!]] I can only conclude that this work is valid. Regarding whether the Parliament's dissociation proposal is systemic or not, since it has been repeatedly quoted in a memo from the Department of Employment and Development and the Ministry of Environment and Resources, I'd like to read a little from that document, with the permission of a president: When the Minister has proposed an order to the Council for a resolution on a protection and energy efficiency programme, the matter has been submitted to the council and its custody. Track No. 48/2011 does not discuss the nature of the matter as to which treatment should take place when the legislator authority has the case to treat it is valid for that law No. 55/1991, of the General Assembly, as with other matters. Four. 45. g. According to Congress, for the second discussion of a proposal for a synonym, proposals and adjustments should be discussed. - Attention: modification proposals for them. - It is clear that the Council can make changes to the synoptic decrees laid before the council. The Environmental and Resource Ministry points out that if there is a change in proposal for Congress to change the interpretation of the terms of a protection and energy efficiency programme in the application of the council, the rules of the law of No. 48/2011, including their objective. According to the Ministry, the Council, taking into account the law of No. 48/2011, a adjustment in the classification of the activation initiatives proposed, as the benefits have been obtained by project management in accordance with the laws of the law. - We don't have to argue about whether they've been treated professionally. As mentioned, the process under the classification of activation options is legal, requiring that the project administration performs proposals for a minister who then considers them. The basis for the inclusion of activation as a protection party or category is that it is possible to have a financial discussion with a project administration in accordance with the above legal protocol of No. 48/2011. [...] As compared to the fact that the Council does not take sides with other activation initiatives other than the ones discussed by the Project Management Board. The task management has considered all these advantages. I'll continue reading, with President's permission: ▪ As indicated in comments to current Parliamentary resolutions made on July 12, 2013, on the behalf of the Environment and Resource Minister, an additional letter to the Project Management Board was made on July 12. There they were directed to the Commission to prioritize their work so that it would perform as soon as possible a professional assessment of the six priming options made from a series of innovations to a waiting party for the review procedure 2 of the Framework Programme and the two options that did not provide adequate assessment in the management of the previous task management... I don't share with the judge. The President of Generalis has decided on this matter and I choose not to argue with the judge. I'm not complaining about the judge, but I'm glad that we're beginning to discuss this objectively.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u118	A respectable president. Thank you. The speaker, who shed light on his background and the basis for understanding the frameworks and the procedures under which they are under. A suggestion for a resolution, as it were. The employment committee is in effect making changes, showing that uncertainty regarding Holtic activation and Uryrofos reactivation has not been sufficiently reduced and therefore the projection has not considered proper. In a matter of what. A candidate repeatedly claims that the majority of the employment committees are willing to make decisions and even evaluate environmental impacts in individual areas, such as those around the Archipelago, which appeared in his evaluation in that area, better than the task management itself. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking why. A senator if I am correctly understood by him that the majority of the employment committees are in this position to set aside project management framework 3. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u119	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. I believe that more than one part of the employment committee members have every right to make their suggestion, as a matter of course. A senator and other members of Parliament will then be able to vote. We in the greater part--at least myself, the one standing here, I don't think I'm going to have any professional food myself. I'm evaluating data, I'm looking at project management frame plan 2, I'm looking at the data as very important. I'm sorry. A senator has ignored these data and asks, " Has she felt that she was on a higher level than the second class project management when she took all the benefits of a waiting party? ' [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u120	A respectable president. Hopefully, the senator knows better than what he is suggesting here, for according to the provisional principle that was then valid for me, along with the existing Minister of Industrial Affairs, Katrín Júlíusdóttir, and then the Harðardóttir G., lay the matter in judgment of the common people with an open review procedure for 12 weeks, taking note of the narrative process. It may work strangely. A senator to do so, but it was for us under the law. And because we received new information, we thought that we had nothing to do with listening to the public. Maybe there's something wrong. A senator feels uncomfortable and strange. Hv. A senator will be consulted about the rights of the senators to one or another, the right of members of Congress to offer suggestions. Wait a minute. A senator only to deepen our understanding of what that means. Does that mean "woe"? A senator, who is a representative of the Aldus Work Board, can offer any suggestion that is now a reservation or a waiting party, with a valid code on a frame plan - can deliver anything that is available according to the conclusion of a stipulation 2 - to a novelty party and thus replace the task management? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Does he think it's available?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u121	A respectable president. No, I don't think so. Some of them what? Senators have been doing it in the flash here, asking us why we didn't just bring Gold Falls. But it seems that in this council resolution, these advantages are mentioned, the project administration was dealing with them, so I think we have the right to bring in the benefits mentioned in the following document according to the reporting process. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[The point is, why no more?]] In case of a moment. The senators do not know that this was a review process, all of these advantages, this proposal made a comment, and it was on the basis of a rumor that we continue with this adjustment. [["Enjoywater"?]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] On the basis of review, we bring this adjustment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u122	A respectable president. Hv. A senator speaks as if there was nothing in the novelty group and that such emergency measures were required to save the country's economy by shoving these initiatives into a novelty party. There are 16 benefits, 16 benefits. A respectable president. I'm asking why. A senator: Does he think it is worth the expedition to blow up the framework process? For what? A respectable president. Then he talks. A senator like us is in just some expedition to get too much data, and it's quite impossible in Project 3 phase management, and that's why they need to be interrupted. This task management is doing nothing but what was asked for her to do by the minister, the Supreme Minister. Minister Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson by letter. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. Let me ask you why. A senator when he considers too much evidence to get information about whether to engage in activations. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I've never heard anything like it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u123	A respectable president. No, no, no. A senator has not heard such things. It's just reviews. The senator has been talking about and referring to reviews. Indeed, the information and job you would like to do in the environmental evaluations of a project followed by the next procedure is recorded in the accounts of the EEA. I'm asking, "How many water sources do we have? It's two or three, isn't it? The rest of it is steam power. Right away. Congress voted on the 2nd step of the frame plan, they had a firethrower there, the natural bulb of Smokeynes. They did not hesitate to put flamethrowers into a novelty party. [[Up front.]] To God's living happiness, the town government of Grindavík grabbed and protected Firethrowers. [[The president calls.]] They need a water supply into the fleas in order to get their business wheels started. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u124	A respectable president. Hv. A senator here speaks as if during his last term, they were only willing to turn some options into a bunch of novelities. People simply followed the professional counseling of the project management and its professional classification. Then when the law tells us to go into a 12-week narrative, we do. What should we do with the reviews that come out of it? What would have happened? A senator repaired them? Based on the way he speaks, he would have thrown them away, or he would have even ignored that story - telling process because the law does not seem to matter to him. What would he do with it? What we did instead of making decisions on our personal terms or by personal preferences and feelings was asking the project management to do this. Do you think it was easy for senators like that? paritaprevir A Harðardóttir of Oddný G.. To follow this from a pile at the end of the dash and provide suggestions that included all these benefits in the Rhines and South, compared with what happened there? [[The president calls.]] Of course not! [[The president calls.]] But why did she do that? Because she believed in the process. [[The president calls.]] There are all kinds of opinions, a respectable president, but they are supposed to follow a legal process.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u125	A respectable president. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator was not just listening to my speech. At least she's been smiling at something else when I've read from the ASI reviews repeatedly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u126	Answer the question.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u127	- What do I do with envelopes? [[Answer the question.]] It was based on a rumor that we made this adjustment. It was repeated in the reports of rural society and from many sources that there was a need for hydropower workers and a request to turn away from the nonsense that some eight activation options had been removed from temporary uses. [[Up front.]] [[Eight o'clock?]] - When you're talking about... - Or six. [[Up front.]] [[Up top, it doesn't matter... eight, six.]] No, no, it might have been hydro-engineers. [[Up front.]] They were challenged, and we were challenged in reviews of going to this assignment, which we did and did. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u128	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you what. In contrast, a senator sees differences between choice and choice, if any, to make one of two choices. For example, we are going to use some area. One might think of building a liquor store, another casino. We decide to do either. See what? A senator will decide to build either, or wait to build either?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u129	A respectable president. Waiting is just what we've done, which the former government did. They're waiting, but if we hadn't been waiting, maybe we'd be setting off the continuum transfunctioners now 2015 and 2016. [[Up front.]] If we weren't waiting, - if we were on the yellow button all the time, nothing will happen. [[Up front.]] For something to happen, we must make a decision. We can't wait forever. If we have a professional evaluation from a frame plan that has discussed detailed priming options, should we not trust that? Why do you start advertising by reviews? I've studied, and the reviews weren't all about moving this option into waiting. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u130	A respectable president. No one's suggested waiting forever. It has been suggested, and in fact, required that completion be the process designed to make a decision in this matter. I wasn't asking what. A senator, with all due respect, asked me why. A senator whether he sees physical differences, not physical differences, but physical differences, should make what the other party thinks is wrong and not make a decision, i.e. wait until some other process is completed and then decide. I'm asking because there's always talk of something in the last government, which I wasn't a part of, like this while I remember, and is no responsibility, when men justify that now is turned away from the approved process, that is because the old evil government did. This is always done on the grounds that the former government has taken something of a novelty and put it into a waiting party, not a reservation, but a waiting party. I'm gonna ask you again. Don't you think there's a senator out there?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u131	A respectable president. There's a big difference. I told you before, there's a big difference between waiting and moving on. There's a big difference. To me, it's about whether we're using frame 2 as source or whether we're going to use frame 3. Regarding frame 3, the project management says that it did not have time or money to go to the appropriate level, and because these benefits were carefully considered previously, it would like to be used. I trust the evidence that comes out of frame 2 out of that task group, because they had plenty of time and could do whatever they wanted. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u132	President. That's very interesting. Likely, if more part of the employment committee wanted to open a liquor store, this part would not really need to do so, although the government had agreed to have alcohol on the government's side. A smaller section or more of the committees might be at odds with what the government had agreed on. Do I get it right? The letter 3 is something, and it is the principle, but the senator believes that the Council does not have to carry out the procedure that had been decided to perform, so the council can compromise it and demand that the government or the execution of the law be violated.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u133	A respectable president. I can't quite figure out what it is. A senator is asking. If she is asking if we have the right to offer suggestions despite any other decision by the government, I know that we should follow our own conscience and that during the council, it is the council that controls it, not the government. [[Up front.]] By my knowledge we follow our own conscience, and we believe in this proposal. We believe it will be held in Congress, as the president has decreed. I can't wait till then. Senators are allowed to vote for the proposal. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u134	So I can conclude from this that the senator finds it acceptable for the council to ask the government to commit a crime, that is a very good thing to do. It is in itself a matter of hearsay, but I am glad that the senator believes that members of Congress have the right to go against the government's will, that is, for the first time in a long time, that the council has such an independent will. Or thinks so. A senator that this adjustment proposal is, in fact, the wishes of the government?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u135	A respectable president. It wasn't my word that I had the right to allow the government to commit a crime. In fact, ministers have been sentenced to the Supreme Court for wrongdoing, so we do not have to go far to check. What I'm saying is I don't speak for the council. The majority of the employment committees aren't everything. He's only six senators. We brought you a change of motion. There are other members of the trade committee, and they offer their suggestions and opinions. That's the Senate case. We do not tell the government what to do, and the government does not tell us what to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u136	A respectable president. I feel that the last talk has been exposed and supported what we've been asking for, that this case will be canceled. To my mind, that is perfectly clear. Councilmen who write on the suggestion presented here did not know what they were writing on and have done so on the contrary. It has been suggested that there were some decisions made, based on some personal opinion and conflicting with all professional assessments, when the benefits of a waiting party were made during the last term. The fact that 12 weeks of narrative had taken place before is totally ignored. The reports had to be addressed, and most of the council decided to do so in this way to ask the expansive management for professional food. That is then the highest. Minister of the dog. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann's son Sigurður, Sigurdrund Ingi Jóhannsson, who makes the decision to send a letter to Project 3 and ask her to evaluate specific factors as appropriate. A senator now feels that going too far or too far beyond its specific areas. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This matter has to be reviewed from A to Z with what? Senator. [[Open the door, hear, hear!]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u137	Madam President. I'm tired of words. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson's son Paul's point was that a former minister, Svandís Svavarsdóttir, was taken to the Supreme Court. Was it not a administrative decision that went to the Supreme Court? Has it not happened often over the years that government decisions made by the State have gone that way? This has become very tasteless, in order to be spoken in a mild way. But because some of us have been watching sheep being delivered live, and they only enjoyed doing so, farmers sometimes had to grab on by the river and help out. Hv. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson seems to think that more than a part of a professional committee would be responsible for some kind of sheep, to assist with the exercise of the project, to put priming options through, and to intervene in an intervention. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] It's not a sheep, anyway. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson. [[Open the door, hear, hear!]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u138	Madam President. It is a question of whether farmers on a professional committee also consider themselves doctors and intend to join the embargos. No, seriously, when we start to talk about it here and it turns out that some senator thinks there's too much evidence to figure out, I'm starting to worry about where we are. How can decisions be made on the basis of too much information? It is clear that we who are on the job committee do not have that role and that we are not in the task management framework and we do not have the data needed to determine the proposal discussed. That is why it needs to be canceled. I suggest that a meeting be terminated to discuss that matter further.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u139	President. The deeper we get into the discussion on this matter, all of which are very peculiar and even historical, the more you realize that the presentation to this particular treatment is actually based on ignorance and misinformation. I can't bear to think that we're wasting Generalis's time on this case right now when so many other things burn on the nation. I just don't think it's a good idea. Unless we finish this matter, the prime minister would refuse to speak to the presidents of the classes in the resistance. What kind of situation are we here, Mr. President? I think it is long time for us to take this matter off and continue working on all the other good things that are waiting for relief - or are there no issues? [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u140	Madam President. It's a real challenge, when we've agreed here at the Senate Hall that we're going to start listening to professionals more, watching this proposal of the greater part on the job committee, and then reading about it in the media to put in the highest level. The minister of finance, chairman of the Independence Party, in this conference discussion is changing the seminars and shortening the session, people speaking too much at the General Assembly. This is so tiresome. I know it's the highest. The minister of finance will be late accused of being a diplomat of divine favor, as was evident in his introduction to his moneybook on May 1 when he sent cold greetings to employees in the country. This, however, is his introduction to this discussion when just a reason to pause and wonder if we are listening to professional people, whether we are studying the evidence. That's when they say "big." Financial Minister: People just have to stop speaking here at the council, they have to shorten the session. This is what the World Council says. Secretary of finance. This is the reason for the lack of confidence at the General Assembly. I don't think he's right. I think that's why they're not building decisions here on a solid basis.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u141	Madam President. Yeah, it's kind of funny to see that stuff at the top. Secretary of finance. Foreign Minister only sings abroad, uh, we are the world's, and he likes it, it's probably his way into the hula fight here. And the other minister just wants us to stop talking. That's not very reassuring. This is the same time as Project Management of No. Three responsible men are taken to the bottom of their assignments, not only on the part of the work committee but also on the tip of the highest. Environment Minister. She could not answer that earlier when it happened. paritaprevir Adolescent named Harðardóttir G. Asked her what she had done with new information received in a review process. She could not answer, so she still remains. V.E.G. Environment Minister cannot support the proposal presented here. Who she's trying to show up by presenting this at a government meeting this morning, in the way that she's doing, is completely incomprehensible to me unless there's a framing call in the Independence Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u142	V.E.G. President. One of our goals in a better future was not to get involved in a public talk and slow down a job of Congress, but it is really impossible when such abuse and overindulging in this matter. It's just like that, huh? paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson, as bad as I think he is. Especially when you consider the 2013 report on trust in the Generals. There, the primary outcome of this eternal pall of our council became all over everything and nothing and nothing happened. It is incomprehensible how the idea of throwing this proposal into the council just before the end of the council knows what it would do before they submitted it, and clearly without even speaking to a king or a priest of their classes, I now noticed. But I will speak in this matter as I do in everybody else. Although I don't know 100% about this frame plan, I know that this country is under attack, and it's not even being listened to professionals. They are not even listening to the people who live with them. Me and the senator received a letter from 38 farmers who live with the Þjójótur, who are totally ignoring what they are saying.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u143	The president would like to ask senators to respect a speech lesson because they have received complaints from the common people that tell us that the sound of the bell is destroying those listening to us, so as president, I would like to ask members of the council to respect the time of speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u144	A respectable president. I thank you for the tips on the bell, I've had some experience studying the sound of the bell right here in my back, and now I have to say, as it is, that there's a little difference between presidents in these materials. Some presidents are quite impressed to just knock on the bell, and it works just the same with the man who speaks like the tremendous beat that others make, so it's said. I'd like to say that when we're in this discussion, it's totally possible that if we continue a discussion on the frame plan, we'll be the top. Environment and resource minister being in the room. We called it repeatedly after yesterday, and she came here and cut down her leg for 2-3/4 minutes at a time, and she was always gone back. We're talking about asking for some sort of argument. V.E.G. The prime minister calls for reasoning, but he throws in a bomb and walks on the door. V.E.G. Secretary of finance speaks of the council's problem. What's the problem with the council? It's that we talk too much and we need to be pressed. So the situation has become very serious.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u145	A respectable president. I think I have a solution for this thing with the bell. We can have something in the floor that shakes so it would disturb the senator instead of the audience. I'd like to make up the subject of a story I was reading at the ml.is, which is the title, with President's permission: ◯Bjarni wants to change the seminars. V.E.G. Secretary of finance, what to say, helps to solve the problem correctly, but it is very difficult to deal with solutions. The first thing that comes to mind is that subjects have a limited time for discussion. The second idea is that there will be an increase in the power of the president to manage Congress. [[Up front.]] It's just the other way around. More power is needed for the smaller parts. The problem is that 60% of members of Congress have 100% power, and freedom of speech is all that has been reduced. This is the situation. If so, you are to exercise authority over the smaller portion, such as a third of the council, which is being done in Denmark, would be able to bring in a national law. It is a real democracy in Congress, not more capital for the Almighty.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u146	A respectable president. The best thing to do is to take the bell out of the room. There's no use to her except to be upset by the noise and to disturb the audience. I think the President will do quite well to conduct a meeting with his voice and hammer as in other meetings. But financial ministers have presented their views on the matter, and it is reason to remind them that the government groups received less votes, so they must be very careful about talking about more things in this relationship. On the other hand, there is reason to make the serious remarks that this discussion continues, for although it is possible to say, as it is said in English down, three to go and three more are saved, this is not so that a professional committee can be making a horse shop about one and one option from a speaker. That is perfectly unappreciative. It's not about political horse shops, it's about professional work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u147	President. In the afternoon, we have listened to two talks on this matter, this difficult and evil matter. It's getting out of the way, so to speak, a career that was meant to go on so far that it didn't happen what's going on here today. And what happens? Here are two speakers - one of them is the highest. Environment minister, she herself, and so it is. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson, who represents the forward party of the Committee on the matter - and I'll just be even more confused than I used to be after listening to these two fine senators and ministers. It seems to me that the people do not know exactly what they're talking about. I think it's necessary to take this case off and make the proposal as it was initially about one activation, Impulse activation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u148	Madam President. I'm here to protest the council program. I object that we have the subject that is being discussed today. I'd like the president to welcome me into the idea of breaking up a council meeting and calling in the council members and the heads of the political parties to review the position that has come up here. Not only is this spent precious time and energy discussing matters that we know will not be off the schedule while these controversial adjustments are being carried out but they are also destroying a framework plan. They're throwing a frame plan out of the window. All right, here's six. People on the pro board who suggest this, and perhaps it's not the most serious, but the highest. Environment Minister is in the same area. [[The president calls.]] This is a very serious situation. This must be discussed with the leaders of the political parties. [[Open the door, hear, hear!]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u149	Madam President. V.E.G. The president mentioned earlier that his decision, among other things, had taken into account employment and innovation, and the Department of Environment and Resources. No, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I don't see any evidence that it's natural or why it's counterable to go contrary to the opinion of the Ministry from where a frame plan is coming. That's why I have to say, because of it. Councilmen have testified that we must submit to the authority of the judge, this decision smells like politics, and that it is not a neutral opinion whether this matter is prepared, i.e. Change proposal, be passed. [[The president calls.]] We don't think so. That's why we're keeping the watch here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u150	Madam President. It has been shown that there is no trust, either on the part of the highest. Environment Minister or wοuldn't yοu knοw? paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson's son Paul's, to the professional groups that came to our credit on the job committee that the Þjórjótur was not fully investigated and the countertitive measures that the land induction was going to use there. It also has a lack of confidence in project management of phase 3 and on the Environment and Resource Ministry. It's amazing to hear the highest. The environmental minister talks along these lines as well. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson, who at one time kept his story straight on the subject. It is not acceptable to include this issue in describing total distrust in professional groups and on-going projects. [[The president calls.]] Is this a good idea to keep up with the program and continue discussing the subject? [[The president calls.]] I don't think so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u151	A respectable president. I'm going to repeat the request that has been made, that this meeting will be terminated because it is not working to continue the discussion so. I hear that the conditions that humans have in mind for the decision of a greater part of the employment committee do not pass the opinion. One is that men are using comparable tactics and we were living in the last term. There, people are completely wrong. It has been made clear that the process was in order to follow in all the laws and to bring the benefits of protection to wait for a review process. Why are options removed from protection for waiting? Because the project management is then asking for the review so that there will be no political fingerprints. Don't think we the Ministers that come to this, me, why. paritaprevir Oddný new G. Harðardóttir. paritaprevir Sagais Svavarsdóttir, wouldn't have had some personal opinion about what might be where? I'll make sure they did. But did they allow themselves to act in a manner that was in line for them? You see, it wasn't done. [[The president calls.]] Nor was this done at the council when the matter was in the hands of men like the Árnason of Marnar, who led them to an environmental committee. Do you think that a hard-headed senator would not want things to go his way? [[The president calls.]] All right. But did they? [[The president calls.]] No, because they wanted to have a professional estimate.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u152	A respectable president. We're taking another ring in this discussion. Here, the members of Congress give the same speech over and over again, and I have to say, as it is, that the respect of the council falls on those watching this on TV from day to day. [[Up front.]] I'm trying, I'm trying to raise my respect. I just want to make a comment to that as a matter of course. paritaprevir Valur Pálsson's son said earlier - Björn's son, forgive - that there was nothing to listen to the people nearby. [[Take it up to Björn.]] That was also the case in 2010 when it was the highest. the local Environment Minister refused to sign the organization for three intangibles in Þjórshei. Let's just keep it up, even if I'm not very busy talking about old times. I think we should try to keep the discussion balanced in that regard. I would also like to remind you that it was shown in step 3 that there was no discussion with a hunting agency, and they have said at a meeting on a job committee that although Þjórði would be examined for another 100 years, the same criticism would always be the same as the results.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u153	Madam President. The respect of the Generals will be discussed. Happily, though, the esteem of the Council is no greater than it is. It would be dangerous for democracy if people were to respect a council that is not respectable. The key points in this matter are not trying to bring up some respect; the key is to conduct ourselves in a dignified way that shows respect for us. Bjarni Benediktsson offers suggestions on how to deal with this situation, and he defines problems in the way that people talk so much around here. No, it's the symptoms. The problem is a lack of communication. It's not a long-term policy development thing in this community, that's the problem. If you're going to attack the symptoms of a filamentist, that you talk too long here, be quiet, and you're going to do it by shortening the speech period, etc., with all the boring side effects that are bad for democracy, it won't solve anything. Then people take the French route, make endless adjustments. Should human efforts be limited? Will it be the way to attack that symptom? Is that the answer? The answer in this matter is that the nation will receive a denial of legislation approved by the General Assembly. Then we'd have to cooperate in this room and settle down in the community, or the people would just stop it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u154	V.E.G. President. I'd like to take my heart to the ground with the rest of my life. A senator who spoke here earlier. This is a major problem with us, inconsistencies. It doesn't matter where you look, whether it's in this case or in academics, Fish Room, I don't know what or what. They don't consult with anyone. I was shocked by my good friend. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson, did not know whose son I was, but it's okay, it's possible to lie in between parts. However, he spoke of the fact that the respect of the Council is taking place during this discussion that is taking place today. He has a debt of debt and a share in a professional committee, it's totally irresponsible if the honour of the Alliedis is going down right now. It's just that way. They could fully appreciate what would happen at the council when they made that suggestion. They saw it in the fall. Did they think that something would change when so much force and overindulge is being done? No. You start listening to the people. Here's the letter from the farmers we got, huh? paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson. Hv. A senator should handle it on a professional committee and try to work it out.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u155	Madam President. I have to agree with those who have spoken about this lack of communication. And already the highest. This morning, the prime minister felt that he had made peace with him, so it was expected, as later noted, between the Environment Minister and the majority of the employment committees. I did not know that someone would need special peace there. I think people have come to realize that something might change, but the peace must be to talk with the government rather than with themselves. When we witness to the government's good declaration of policy, which is spoken of as being a cooperative project, I agree, the government is not practicing it and it is not trying to activate the cohesion of the nation, it is quite clear, and it is not working for Iceland to be at the point of environmental action on a global scale, it is quite clear by the actions proposed here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u156	Madam President. I have to say, I don't appreciate zeal. paritaprevir Ads of Ásmundur's Friðriksson in the indications listed under the right side, on the President's conference board, for there should be important indications on this matter that need to be considered and we wait for President to consider. Languages are like this: A majority of the workaholics propose an adjustment form that is not supported by law and accepts tasks that have not been assigned to the Committee, i.e. working as someone who is attracted to the task management of a frame plan. It doesn't make sense. That's not what we do, there are others who do it. This is how we make comments, and we want to stop it. Then wait another case, and we'd like to work while the project manager of the Framework Programme finds out if priming options should become a protection class. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u157	A respectable president. I want to agree with the words of those here spoken and to mention the obvious fact that this meeting cannot be resumed. This is where they spoke. Minister of the Environment, once and for all, against his own department. She spoke against project management in step 3 of the frame plan. It supports her statement that Hagwater activation alone is retracted into the conversion of more part of the employment committee and is thus acting contrary to its clients, both the Ministry and the Project Management Board of the 3rd Plan. This has become a serious situation. A man was worried that the Environment Ministry wasn't manned, that people were going to take care of it so that they could handle it. The Sigurður of Ingi Jóhannsson's Ingi Jonsson, marine dignitary and agricultural minister, would be there. That was a lot of delirium. I rejoiced when the Ministry was finally manned. I'm really wondering if it's been for the better.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u158	V.E.G. President. Clearly, when we are now arguing about whether to respect the laws and regulations in our country, we face a real challenge. Here, in real life, we are experiencing exactly what happened at the beginning of a terms when humans decided to throw away nature protection laws. They were useless. We did it. When a member of the committee was discussing matters, it became apparent that there was no disagreement about what was in the Law. Here we are suddenly arguing over matters that are about to protect and use, those of us who are about to have to do both, and we were ready to let the whale activation, which is a proposal of the highest order. Governments, through. No, it's not enough, it's supposed to let something else go along the way, letting it go instead of the usual procedure. Do management personnel fear that the task management will not normally resolve the situation? That's what I'm talking about. Minister? Is she going to shun all these parties? It is not surprising to talk about violating the laws and regulations we have agreed on at this council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u159	A respectable president. I must continue to discuss the respect of the Generals and the very idea. The secretary of finance to allow matters to be limited for discussion and the president's authority in order to expand their affairs. It can be noted that the president has universal authority over the program. It is one of the problems, and when you have such problems, you are not going to increase it but to reduce it. Nowhere in this report is it reported at the highest. A minister of finance has thought of increasing the opportunity to consult the program. Isn't it a little silly, so I don't use a stronger word, that the Allied Council, the legislature, even agree on the program? Is that not a problem on our own that we should pause to ask ourselves, " How can I resolve? ' There's something you would have thought that adults could get along. The problem is, there's too much power in the hands of most parts. He's got the whole government, he gets the executive position on the market, he gets the President of the Senate, which I remind him was decided by two men, I mean men, and then we got some sort of vote on it as you remember. [[The president calls.]] It's not possible. We're supposed to increase the power of the share, not reduce it. [[Open the door, hear, hear!]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u160	A respectable president. You're absolutely right. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson. In countries that want to call themselves democracies and want to increase democracy, there is no concern over the power of the greater part. People worry about how the smaller part is trampled on, so it is only humorous to see the suggestions at best. The secretary of finance has to include in this discussion. I'd like to remind you, too, because I think it matters, that this is the second discussion. It's not like there's three discussions. It's not like they're giving someone the pressure period between the 2nd and 3rd. where people can adapt and meet one another at the end. [[The president calls.]] It's not like here. We're in the final talk, and it's just a matter of time over the smaller part. There's a lot of power over him.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u161	Madam President. I'd like to reiterate my desire that the president of this meeting shut down and call in the company leaders to review the serious news that we have witnessed today, especially after the Supreme Court. The minister of the environment gave his speech. This is a dramatic invasion of a law bound in a crosspolitic fashion. This is very serious. It is about the nation's resources to play, and some 20 years ago, the process began to work out a way of reconciliation so that each option would not constantly be dependent on controversy and strife among the people. Madam President. What is happening is taking this 20 - year - old job of hundreds and throwing it out the window. [[The president calls.]] It is not just a matter of the lesser part but of the people's will.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u162	Madam President. It is normal to share the respect of the Generals with them, and I feel that they have raised good questions around them. It is claimed to be. In part, members of the body are threatened by the respect of the Generalis because we are opposed to this matter. Today, no matter where we look at national conventions around us, there are smaller ways to show our opposition and even stop matters, much more so. The more we learn, the more important it is to consult, the more important it is to explain, the importance of following procedures, and the less often we see such scenes as those we see at this assembly in the district conventions around us, where people act differently. The program is followed, so people are more concerned with the subject, as we have noted. If we speak of Generals' respect, I think we should start by applying the rules of law so that such discussions may not have to come along.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u163	Madam President. Would it be that we simply disagree with the greater part of the subject? We would be able to discuss the matter. That's usually the way it is in this room. There the memory of the object was not affected by the subject talk. But here we will be able to discern whether the matter could be on the agenda above or not and we lack full evidence that it is contrary to the opinions of the Environment and Resource Ministry that this is against the laws on the Framework Programme. Then we get deliveries through the media from the highest level. The head of the Independence Party, and I would like to call for him to come into the room and recognize his ideas so that we are convinced that there has not been someone who broke into his Facebook account. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u164	V.E.G. President. It is extremely important to know if the highest will be involved. The president has been looking for people to take this matter off the program and to turn to other matters. I'm asking for unprepared queries this morning where the highest level is. The prime minister prepared answers. He pointed out that there are some things that are going on with the solution to collective agreements. It should then be welcomed that the Work Programme has now delayed the performance of strike events and appears to be working on negotiations with its partners. At the same time, something seems to be worse for BRM than it is important to know what is being done. That is where the highest report is made. Prime Minister, or this could be understood, including This case would be considered in the dress code, where ASI's opinion on activation issues was cited. This must be explained before we continue our discussion, before we begin our main discussions and finish a future discussion. One of the biggest problems now is to try to make peace and deal with them, and that's why we should be talking about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u165	A respectable president. It is not our intention in the government's situation to discuss this relatively insignificant part of the sector's work programme on amazing suggestions that will not be realized during this council. We've been wanting to talk about the country's chicken business, how to get the homes help, and for one thing, we've called upon to receive the Eyglótirs of the Harðardóttir's welfare minister, who was supposed to be stuck in the Ministry of finance. But now we read it in the papers, not just on Secretary of Economic Affairs, but in the magazines, that the bills were drawn back, that the welfare minister has withdrawn at least one of the main projections to be introduced into a difficult battle and appeal for the improved standard of living in the country. [[It's a scandal.]] [[For example: Well?]] You don't understand how things are turning at the council, what bills are coming in, and who are on the way out, and what minister next is going to make the adjustment proposal for his own making more of his own business.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u166	V.E.G. President. It is clear to everyone that a conversation at the General Assembly has reached its end, not just today, but the last days, and the news as well. paritaprevir In his last talk, Hjörvar's Helgi brought in the talk "To the Top. " A social and housing minister would have withdrew one of the main projections she had announced would make the work at the General Assembly even more upset. Surely, then, that must be a sobering thought for the highest degree. Whether it is proper to postpone a meeting, to postpone the discussion taking place here today, and to have a conversation with the memory of the part on which it is appropriate to conclude at this spring council, what matters are actually in the government program, and what changes are in their own affairs. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. In effect, the government is suggesting this discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u167	V.E.G. President. We will review repeatedly whether the change in the greater part of the proposal to make a resolution to the decision to make a political resolution on a national protection and energy use programme is undertaken to treat the Parliament's program. V.E.G. The president has decided that it is, so the matter was scheduled. But the program can be carried out by reason of reason. When opposition arises, a person criticizes his decision and simply does not accept it. I ask a respectable president how far we can go in protesting this decision. There certainly was an initial proposal from the highest. the local environmental minister, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, to put the whale reactivation into the Neo-Centennial Party. This, in turn, takes place. The employment committee makes a adjustment to the council and to the highest level. The president has decided that the proposal is being arranged. That is the situation that we must work with, and in the greater part of it, of course, we accept that decision. So we must be able to continue with the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u168	Madam President. The problem that now exists in the labour market, puts patients at risk, and brings untold damage to the entire population. They talked about him before Christmas. When faced with a problem, you may ask, Of course, what will you do if there is a problem that constantly comes up and is anticipated? How do you react? I frequently consult the carpenter father of modern management, Peters Druckers. In his book The Effective Executive, it may be: Successful people, he tells managers to ask themselves this question, with permission of the president: ▪ Remember whether or not you are a victim, and if so, why not be prepared or not? I'm going to translate it, as the Senate puts it: Could the former or present crisis again, and if yes, can it be prevented or reduced by setting a rule on or a frame about how to handle it? He also says, by permission of the President: ▪ If so, the game moves a plan to resort to the criss and stations to manage it. It could be interpreted: If yes, make a plan to deal with the crisis and train people to follow it. What kind of plan has been discussed? What have we called for? What have the workers of the labour market, such as ASI and the workforce, been calling for when it comes to a plan, when it comes to putting up a tight fight? Of course, they want to prevent them from taking place. Otherwise, they want to be a good tool for solving them. Let us first consider what ASI says by permission of the president: In recent years, contracts have come under criticism. It has been noted that negotiations have often been delayed, partly attributable to the lack of policy planning for parties and negotiations. It has then been claimed that the combined pay raise has sometimes led to economic instability, which has again resulted in failure to achieve financial gain aims. ASI and SA declared in 2013 a review of collective agreements that the organization wanted to get to a common level with the government labour market partners and set goals for improving the work of collective agreements. Almost every year, ASI and SA considered looking for models in neighboring countries that have managed to increase their power with low inflation. The Agency considered it proper to aim for the common vision of the workforce at the beginning of 2013 to increase the cost and improvement of lifestyles for the next few years to come. This vision and the improved work done in collective agreements was to be an assemblyist of collective agreements made in the autumn of 2013. Then you ask, "What is this?" Why has it not been one of the priorities of the government to complete this frame called the Swedish reconciliation or the Norwegian way of making a bargain? Let's hear what they're saying at the Business Association. They recently issued ten suggestions to get us to the top in ten years. Suggested No. 9 is the best cover for collective agreements, and it says, by permission of the president: The Scientific work model has provided economic stability and a higher standard of living than the Icelandic model. Job markets, governments and the Council have a collective responsibility to establish and maintain economic stability. Economic stability contributes to improved production, which is the key to increasing buying power, and it builds that remuneration is compatible with moderate inflation and the level of the crown's gang is stable. In the past two decades, pay in Iceland has increased by two to three times as much per year as in business countries. In the United States, pay increased by 250 percent during that period than about 100% in Sweden. ASI and SAES agree that we need a new and stronger frame of agreements. Where is this frame? Why isn't he on yet? Recently, I was at a meeting at a meeting for an increase in prosperity, a project that was initiated by the Directorate of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir during the last term. The scene is still on, and there are good discussions. Recently we were talking about this precisely, that this had to happen. But now we're in the middle of a fight, and that's not a good control. A good management is to build a frame to keep such a fight from becoming. Now we're discussing another frame, i.e. There must be some common basis for agreeing with both the inventor and the patrons. It's been 15 years, I believe, and finally when it arrived during the last term, the people of this government are accusing this government and the last government for breaking the box, and now the government is saying they're going out against the rules of bullies, i.e. to throw in a lot of new technologies that the Ministry says conflict with law. If the council agrees with this arrangement of action, the council must conclude that the minister should violate the law. This doesn't make any sense. If this government doesn't start acting differently, I don't see how people can have confidence in that government that it can get together on some kind of frame, a strong frame of how to prevent a job market debate. This is a very serious situation. That is very clear on page 22. 85 in the McKinsey report on Iceland that this is a large acane for us and the economy. The report says that it is essential that we deal with this in order to get the economy started quickly, that we can work for long term policy development. It's always being attributed, they call it an ◯polysalicy instability, i.e. Policy instability. What others did is always being traced back. Such instability means unpredictableness and unpredictableness are expensive for all, people making decisions about their lives, their companies, and all kinds of social institutions. It's an excessive cost and a great waste of time for the whole community, and we don't have a good frame to make sure we can get together on the Council and on the program. It also means waste of time, all of it means excessive waste of time and excessive waste of money. Now this has also resulted in the lives of patients in a job market. We can't go on like this. We must start putting up new processes that ensure that we are forced to work together; we must be able to perform a long term policy development. I don't see any more powerful tools for that, but what the people wanted and said in the U.S. U.S.A., on October 20, 2012, that they themselves wanted to do, that some less part of the country could call for national pay on a case agreed by the General. Then the majority of the members of the council cannot push something into the neck of the nation. Then people in this room have to have much more peace and harmony about where we're going with the community, about policy, or the people just stop it. That would be the strongest. There is nothing bad about this idea, but, of course, opposition to it is because politicians do not want to lose power. I think we've come to a place where the people don't accept this anymore. That's why Piratars do so high on polls. A major reason is that people want to get more involved. It's just that you're so surprised that, anyway, we're here discussing a frame where people are still trying to force them into overexploited debates. It seems that there is nothing learned from this appendage that the government groups have been exposed to. Residents of the labour market and the Ministry develop a report on collective agreements and labour markets in the North countries that are very interesting to read. The subtitle is the workgroup of the work force at the labour market, and it was released in May 2013. I advise people to take a look at it and the government to dust off this proposal and put it into force. The box on the collective agreements, listed by the President's permission: ◯2.4,1 Kjarar contracts and legislation. The Norwegian Convention Model is based on largely firmness in agreement with a workforce, not by legislation, total agreement. For years there have been agreements between total employment agreements on protocols and treatment of conflicts, often referred to as top church agreements. They're both public and public. It is the firm will of the labour market to determine as much as possible with collective agreements and, at least, by legislation, based on a long-term tradition and wide involvement in the employment and labour organisations. In the whole of the country, there is a law on social and social reconciliation in the workplace. Close cooperation is being made with the labour market partners on changing legislation on labour issues. This is something you can do. Come on, with president's permission: It is not a law-to-target wage in the North countries. In Iceland and Finland, agreements report minimum remuneration, as well as specific areas in Norway. In the four countries, the reach of government agreements varies, all of which are adopted by the three - side cooperation of the government and the labour market bodies. 2.4.2 Embarrass agreements. The commission to negotiate has been made by the unions, but depending on the experiences, it can be delivered to the overall organisation, as is true of the employment organisation. 2.4.3 Remuneration and the improvement system. There is a great deal of debate about changes in the unemployment system and social services, and there are very different opinions in the world. Some feel that the system can be a worksheet, where compensation is relatively high in terms of pay, while others do not consider it to be. Changes are planned on various aspects of the improvement system, both in Denmark and in Finland, and there are conflicting opinions about them. Recent research and statistics show that, in fact, a strong improvement system and a strong general welfare system increase job involvement contrary to what you've heard so far, so it's interesting to look at it in this context. Come on, with president's permission: - Yeah. - Yeah, that's right. The 2,5.1 commercial pay system. In Denmark minimum pay contracts and non-paying contracts reach 85% of the employees. The increase in minimum remuneration of a specific crown number has no direct effect on pay over minimum wage. Approximately 15% of the paymen take pay according to the pay table in collective labour contracts (e.g. normalløn), e.g. drivers and cleaning staff, and they do not negotiate in companies on pay for these activities. In general, pay rates are not determined by union unions and employment drivers. Rather, they are determined in contracts between companies and sponsors. In Finland, a central agreement has long been the dominant, but the trend is towards an increased degree of close-up agreements. The Finnish industry places great importance on such changes, and treaties will be done without the government. In Norway most of the labour agreements are entitled to a minimum wage valid for the entire contract. The cost market in collective agreements is implemented in business agreements under family peace. Corporate agreements are usually made for two years, and during the first year, remuneration and mutual agreements are negotiated only in the second year. During the first year, the collective agreements are generally between partners, but over the second year between the overall organisations. In Sweden, the object of individual pay has increased. The content of work and performance are the main factors to be considered on the basis of individual remuneration. It is common for a part of labour agreements to be general and part of a business agreement between the trustees and the managers to be taken into account. Employers want to increase the magnitude of the salary in an enterprise. Two, five, two, two government pay systems. Denmark has agreed on pay development insurance (e.g. regrunting), which is aimed at ensuring similar pay development in public employees and in the general labour market. The arrangement ensures that, on average, the pay of public workers increases by about 80% of the average increase in the general labour market. In Norway, there is room in all institutions to increase pay according to policy-making policies in the main local labour agreement. The union organizations have generally agreed with collective agreements, followed by contracts made close or established agreements within the agreed costs of peace responsibilities. In Sweden, public pay and local remuneration are estimated to be higher than in the general market. 2,5.3 roles and contracts of total agreements. The collective body of agreements, which are part of the labour agreements between unions and employers' partners, is in force. It contains guidelines for practical handling such as negotiations, negotiations, confidential roles, and cooperation. Usually, there are agreements on purchases and terms between unions, or a few in certain sectors, and employers' employment unions. From this, however, there are exceptions. The overall organisation makes them agreements on common issues that concern all of their partners. The main work of the UN is coordination, information and public relations and to ensure that the pay policy developed to the entire labour market. 2.5,4 Jobs on pay information. The labour market partners are closely cooperating on statistical information. The objective is that all parties base their coverage on the same data. Partner reports do not contain any recommendations or an opinion of pay change. I can continue to read this to you in the next speech, but I want to get together and finish what was presented in the northern states of Kala and the votes of ASI, by permission of the President: While the labour markets of the countries vary, as well as the implementation of collective agreements, the following factors have been identified in all countries by the labour agreement: The careful preparation for the collective labour agreement is well established. Economic prowess are analysed and careful data are summarised on the development of pay. This ensures that all parties have the same information on state and economy. The emphasis is on building power on slow but safe steps without harming the competitive status of the country or increasing unemployment. The rise in wages must be consistent with a constant gang. In the country, the pay increase is determined by the position of the export and competitive sectors. At times, it is said that the contract will be done in a manner that will be negotiated at the beginning of each cycle. In Denmark, the terms of the Dank Industri (DI) and the CO-industr (e.g. gentrrudsomsomre). In this case the rate of pay promotion is expressed by companies and communities within the category of international competition. The labour market has agreed that these articles are responsible for the negotiation. See, there's a lot of work to do, and this is what both ASI and SA, the entire labour market organisation, are calling for. Governments must participate in this work, and they must do so by law. Don't you think it's time to do this? Why don't we stop these business politics, take this case, framework for the protection and use of natural resources, off the agenda and set up a frame of agreements, how can we solve it repeatedly, with a whole-scale framework?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u169	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the talk, this extensive review of pay cases. I would like to agree with him that, of course, we should be discussing today how we can deal with the problems we face in the community. To me, it's simply incomprehensible that we let this go all the way. We share because we want to improve our cooperation and cooperation here at the Council. There have been reports on this, the Generals' research report and the General confidence report, and why in all of these do we not follow up on this? What causes that? And what makes this government, who wrote in his government covenant so cool that when you read it, you get down on your knees, you're totally in conflict, and you're starting to argue with one another? I would like to ask the senator, "Why does he think this is happening? "
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u170	Madam President. I think it's because of the highest. The minister of Bjarni son of Benediktsson said very well, he just said, "The majority of the speeches." Of course, it is the lesser part of the greater part that, in the final analysis, is in control, but man wants to rule. They don't want to let it go. They just want to control and control it. That's why. But the people are getting tired of it. The people of the land are tired of this. Ten years ago, we sat in front of the TV and took in information that will always be accepted. Through social media, we always participate in discussions every day, always shape a course, always talking to others, seeing what others think. It changes people's values. People have legitimate expectations to be more involved in decisions. I mean, choosing every four years some men who get to hire everything, that's not what people want. Still, it is a tradition, and it is difficult to change, but it changes naturally when you see that they lose their seat and lose control if they do not give up a little. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u171	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this answer. Of course it is. It is chosen every four years. But those of us who have been rolling in this society over the past half century have noted huge changes and, like the driving force, have seen. A senator introduces them as people become far more aware of what is happening in the community. Sadly, though, these governments do not seem to fully understand it. I talked to you before about a declaration of policy - there is one sentence on a frame plan in the Declaration of Policy, which says, by permission of the president: The 'Environment and energy use programme' will be reviewed based on the results of the experts'professional groups assigned by project management. That's all they say about a frame plan that's a huge deal when you start to think about it. I'd like to ask the Senator again, he may have no answer to the question: What interests are those who decide to go out like this on the law and not mention it in the campaign, before the election?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u172	Mr. President. There are, of course, interests to activate, it creates value and structure, etc. If we're going to have a long-term strategy on how we're going to use our energy resources, it's going to have to happen in some agreement, and it's going to have to happen in a professional process. Making something valuable is not the only way to activate it, that is also the protection point, i.e. People want nature, not to activate it, and they feel like it's destroying the land. I'm both at the same time. I'm both the activation and the protector. But it's not just me or a professional committee or more part of a council that's supposed to make all the decisions about this, it's gotta be some kind of tight worry about being able to find some kind of compromise, some kind of reconciliation. No matter what this government or the other part of a professional committee says - the majority now says that more parts during the last term have broken the box and were cheating. Does this mean, then, that the present larger things are to do the same?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u173	Madam President. I listened attentively to a talk. A senator, and thank him for her. He was primarily involved in the work and work ethic and that it would be preferable to have a more formal work ethic, both in the dress and in the language we discuss here, the plan for protection and use. On the other hand, I'd like to ask. A senator from what he also made for publicity, i.e. • building a longer time for the Icelandic economy and employment life, what his attitude is for nature, that is, underneath, of course, the largest income source in Iceland's tourism. Tourists who come here arrive at 80% of their height to watch nature. The more we walk on it, the more we go to this resource. I just feel like I'm missing that vision when we discuss the job structure. I'd like to hear a point of view. A senator in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u174	Madam President. Exactly, this is one of the viewpoints. To enable this natural resource is not merely valuable, but economic value also comes from protecting it, as it were. A senator mentions. Where should the decision be made? Is that to be decided on a professional health committee? Should not the matter be taken into account and have a complete framework of how we should discuss it and evaluate all of the factors? It's a lot more successful, and the McKinsey report is coming in, making this overall state and achieving policy for a long time. What do people think is going to happen now? This is now the end of this council arrangement, i.e. If it does run out that I don't believe, we can't let it go, but let's say it's over, then the council would have concluded that the minister broke the law. The charges would naturally be charged, but they would still start, and then the Guardians would try to stop it, have a ban on the project, and if that doesn't work, they'd be there. That's what's going to happen. [[The president calls.]] Do you think there's some stability in there? Do you think they're just gonna start with this? They will be stopped, and they have legitimate expectations for this to be done in a professional process, so they can completely justify this to themselves. [[The president calls.]] This is not good for the future of the energy industry in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u175	Madam President. I'm worried that this is an irreversible decision. One of the decisions they're making is that we activate at the Archipelago, which means we're going into the highlands, but it's been suggested that we create one global park from the middle of the country. It is a requirement for my personal support that the government there maintains enormous value in its hands, to the future we have a vast, vast, vast universe of Europe. There are people here looking for the unique experience of being in a virgin country. We also have many natural spheres outside these highlands that are important. What's bad is talking about this sort of thing from the context of a general work-building conference, where we've seen huge changes in recent years. I feel like they're not included. I feel like a whale. The employment committee does not consider that tourism has become one of the largest exports in Iceland, and the committee is, in fact, what we can say, making decisions that can affect future tourism. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u176	Madam President. It is true that the senator is involved in irreversible decisions. That is just when we are making the most of our decisions that are irreversible. But if you just want to control and control and do things the way they want them, it pays to be aggressive and run the whole thing all over and start, even if there is uncertainty about whether it's a law, it still goes off and starts because it's so expensive. That's what I think people are gonna do and try and get away with. But I think it's getting tired of it and I think it's going to cost the management parties quite a bit, because it's not economically wise to do this. It's a bad way of running things.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u177	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I've been thinking about this discussion all together by what men are doing by keeping it on a general program in view of its controversial nature, as well as the fact that the administrative issue does not seem to have a conclusion on the subject. We are now in a second discussion of a synonym, which means that there will be no more discussion, it is just this discussion, and then there will be a vote, and then we will be settled. That's why we're here. And then there's news on things like that. A senator named here, which is a matter of honour and general living in the country and the struggles we see. There are many things the government can do to meet debates. One of these was the topic of housing, which was sent out by the Department of Economic Affairs. Now we have news of the retraction of that matter. [[The president calls.]] Are we not seeing only one reason why humans stress this matter here? It's to cover it up.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u178	Madam President. It might be some kind of strategy for the greater part to attach to the council in discussing the framework of energy efficiency when discussing the frames of how we resolve disputes. That's exactly why I used the time just to discuss what should be discussing right now, which is the line of how we're going to solve conflict and how it doesn't seem to be one of the priorities. It's a recurring problem, it's a visual problem, and when you're seeing problems, you go to create a frame, create a system to deal with it when it gets, or even prevent it. The senator may be correct in saying that this is just some kind of military strategy for the government, especially when it seems the least said to be wearing its pants down to many activities that need to be backed up, and then she is late to present matters. Like what? A senator mentioned the matter of housing is clearly part of welfare, and he must become involved in all these disputes. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'll finish up later.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u179	A respectable president. The core published today reports that by the end of April, the rights of housing had been withdrawn from a reporting process in the Ministry of finance at the highest level. Secretary of society and housing. We haven't heard anything about it in here. We've been talking here as if it were all going through. As we have been standing here to take over these matters, we have worked very hard here to meet those in the workforce's conflicts and to answer the call that comes from those who have made the difficult decision to go to a strike to fight for the better living conditions and conditions in this country. When we face the ultimate challenge. Home and social security minister has taken two years to work the bills that are then drawn back, and it seems to be starting over again, of course, to think that man is here with us in this dance to cover up the fact that they have become completely competent and idealess when it comes to the approach of this difficult workforce. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u180	The president would like to ask members of the Parliament to keep close to the topic under discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u181	Madam President. I think we should start discussing the frame of conversation as to the best way to resolve disputes in the labour market instead of the other. The rest of the matter is not to be planned here, and it's not okay that there's only one man, the president of the council, who controls it. Nothing's okay. It is not politics that enables us to have long - term dating and social reconciliation. I encourage members of Congress just to discuss the labour market and the bullies that are talking about solutions there.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u182	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson speech. The core of the talk was the workforce and the importance of policy development, and it linked the issues we are discussing here, the energy use of land and resources. We're gonna go for a second. A senator debates the opinion of the importance of policy development, as we have noted so many times. In my previous answer, I return to the labour market arrangement. This is certainly a organized workforce, i.e. The salary and benefits are generally determined by the collective body of employees and employers. How can you tell? In the face of an unorganized labour market, where purchases and terms are just between employees and employers, a senator sees changes in their arrangements? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u183	Madam President. The employment and industrial organisations agree on the North American work market model, as stated by the Labour Association, by permission of presidents: The Scientific work model has provided economic stability and a higher standard of living than the Icelandic model. That's exactly where we're supposed to look. The labour market members examined this carefully and published a report on this in May 2013 that I read from earlier on. There are various ways to go. This will not go on, however. Among other things, laws need to be changed, so none of these things go on. I don't know what the best way is, but this is what the Business Association says, and ASI agrees that it needs to be examined. These people need to sit down with the government. This needs to be part of the workforce solving this issue now if we want to create an arrangement in which we are not always in these cells.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u184	The president wants to ask why. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir apologize for having directed to her. A senator would stay as close to the subject as possible. You're right about what you're doing. A senator that others have gone outside the subject, and it is not true that it alone will pay for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u185	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Of course, time is short to cover such important changes. We're gonna go for a second. A candidate agrees that global policy development is necessary to create potential and to improve agreement, as with the legislation on the issues under discussion, protection and access of resources, and the standard global policy simulations which set the overall objectives and targets and then the traditional procedures carried out and monitoring as such a framework. I'd like to ask, though, in a later answer, if he believes that the law on frames can be reinforced and where is it best. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u186	Madam President. These laws have been discussed on the box, protection, and use, in talks for some 15 in the past 20 years, so it has been in the car for so long. I have no idea how best to get it done, but at least people got it, all members of Congress agreed to that frame, and both activationists and Guardians had to give in order to get into some frame where long-term policy dating could be carried out in this language class. Then the current government, which was a lesser part of the government during the last terms to break the box and are about to break the box, will have no long - term policy development in this category. Everything's going to be in the air. It's not good for anyone, it's just business that's forced through. Much of that time has passed. Today it is politically expensive, and people must look to it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u187	Madam President. I have to make a comment at the conference board. A president, though, at the highest level. Mr. President has apologized to the members of the council, what? paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir, should have made comments about the content of her questions, that they were not close enough to what we discussed here. I have understood it so that we senators may be allowed to come from various sources to the subject that is here at a time and that any way we would like to speak, we would be free to ask members of the council what we would like to do. I didn't know it was the highest. A theme countered by the president. It is not acceptable, and it is up to us to speak freely from different sides with other members of the council in this room about what we want to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u188	A respectable president. I'm on my way now. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir. I don't recall ever hearing a president comment on the content of a panel's speeches or answers. Of course, comments are made to those who discuss the meeting regime or when it comes to comments, but I have never heard them before in talks or answers. Like what? Magnúsdóttir I'm going to commend the president for waiting. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir apologize for her comments. A respectable president. I would like to, as has been done here many times earlier today, to ask that this matter of a structured program be decommissioned because it is uninhabited. There is clearly an inconsistencies within the board of directors on this subject. In fact, if I may put it that way, Mr. Honorable President, we're being made a fool of ourselves by making us discuss this matter as it's in our hands. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u189	V.E.G. President. I reiterate my position, as it has also come from nearly all the government opposers of the council, that we should throw this matter out, which is now under discussion. We can take the original proposal and deliver it, which is a whale activation, which is the subject analysis of this program, i.e. We're here to discuss the protection and energy efficiency programme for land areas, and there's Hamp activity specifically set in parentheses. Most members of the council here have been made aware that they are prepared to handle this case, since it has been settled in a frame plan. What I'm worried about is connected to the highest. In order to protect the respect of the General Assembly and to ensure that the greater matters, we must, in a very large way, work policy and plan ahead, as is being done with a financial program, as was being done by a structure. The next issue on the program will discuss a system plan, but the council took it up and sent it back to the committee to ensure that it was accepted by Generalis. This is about the state of the council and the highest. President. [[The president calls.]] So I'm going to ask men not to destroy the plans that have been made but to turn this issue out and then be answered here at the council, as well as by those who present this case: How long would it take to take these four priming options through a study of the project? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u190	A respectable president. I first thank the President for his apology earlier and take it very seriously. I know it myself that I can be impetuous in a chair here when things are going on. What I was trying to say in the past, and I responded. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson is coming up to learn that the large housing package we've all been waiting for for for for years from the highest level. Social and housing minister has been reassigned from a reporting process at the Ministry of Economic Affairs. In other words, these bills are not on their way into this council. I believe that the reason for stress is to have a frame plan on the program is to cover that the government has no legal issue to resolve the workforce. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u191	A respectable president. I reiterate my request, which has appeared here before. I don't really know what to do to get an answer to it or what other members of Congress should do. Many people have requested to put this adjustment into order and then back to the prior list, since there are many other subjects we would like to discuss. It's clear that the case is grossly deformed, and it doesn't mean anything to try to throw it through like that, it's just, unfortunately, so defective. I'm asking for answers from the President. I find it very strange to be somehow talking out into the void and not get any ◯fedback, but will continue to do it until I get answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u192	A respectable president. I'm coming here just to say the word. paritaprevir It's Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir. I feel like we're being made up of by keeping this matter on the agenda, and not just us, but the whole nation. What a thrill it is to make the decision to throw this matter in here when many other factors are more urgent! I've only been wondering about this frame plan. In March of our next year, the project manager explained that it was due to give full results. Why could it not be waited, but why could it not be done? For me, peace in the community is one of the most important, most important things in every society is the reconciliation and the trust that exists. It's not in Iceland today, I'm sorry. It is extremely distrust and suspicion, and this kind of work is not designed to fix it. And then I also wondered, " Why are you in danger of applying in Þjórjósa? ' We're not producing except 18 of you. gigava hours of electricity in this country. We are 330 thousand, and we use only less than 20% of it, Iceland itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u193	Madam President. There's five and a half plagion days left, and they go to the kitchen on their own. There are an amazing number of cases that I believe the government needs to be settled, including. what is stated in the Treaty as government's most important task, survived. That bill was to come in here a few days after the financial and economic secretary mentioned it. It's been quite a few days since, but there must be some coverage at the council. As mentioned above, the social and housing minister is being put on the run with his own case so that he will not become involved in the struggle and will not follow up on the security of housing that should be in accordance with the needs of each individual and such as having a real choice for farm shapes, as shown in the Treaty. I think that the Parliament has far more to do with the needs of projects tithing in the Treaty than to spend our time in this discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u194	Madam President. In that committee that I and Björt Ólafsdóttir returned from our employment committee on this matter, we suggest that the case be dismissed. For what? Because former environmental minister, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, actually suggested that Project 3 be allowed to undergo eight quick treatments. The project management complained that it had been too few to work with, and it would be very difficult, but it suggested a single option that was a whale reaction. That proposal entered the council. We know that the task management has made a number of costs, and we believe that considering the bad practice of not having more benefits and the much pressure on the task management to submit this one activation option, which was Hmmming, it is proper that the entire case be referred to a professional project management, which will result in over a year or so. [[The president calls.]] Can't we wait? There are 900 megawatts available in the system today in the country. [[The president calls.]] Should that not be enough?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u195	Madam President. I'd like to ask the president again to accept my request to end this meeting and call the political party leaders to take over the position that has come up here. If Madam President doesn't want to grant that request, I'd like the president to explain to us why the matter is here. Why is this controversial subject on the convention program when it is clear that the government situation is not responding to throwing a frame plan out of the window? Does the president believe that it will lead to a greater respect for the Generals and a greater trust and confidence in what we're doing here?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u196	Madam President. I'm coming up here to discuss the President's conference board. V.E.G. The president asked the senators earlier to keep themselves as close as possible to the subject on the program. Now I respect it at the highest. Mr President, she's been waiting. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir is sorry for this intervention, but I have to say that this kind of recommendation from the President is not relevant to members of Congress, especially following the recommendation given at the highest level. The CFO of his Facebook page in which he brings up the matter of changing the seminars and shortening the possibility of a session for members of Congress. It has been said that there is a significant need for a reduction in the authority of the president and to increase the access of the parts to the program. I have to say, you're going to get really good at the highest. The president goes on top of the task of getting involved in the content of speech or connections. Councilmen come with us in their speeches. [[The president calls.]] Then the freedom of democracy and the freedom of speech by members of the Parliament are highly recommended. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u197	A respectable president. I'd like to pick up the wire where it's at. paritaprevir The Steinunn of Þóra the Year's Árnadóttir let him go. Under the circumstances that we are right now at the council, it is urgent that we be at the highest level. Let the President have his power very well. That's when you're trying how hard. The president will take his conference board. It is sobering when the party card looks up from the chest pocket with a respectable president. Then I am not just talking about the person who is now in the chair. I'd like to ask the president what the president's ideas have on the progress of this meeting. Now it's 4:30 p.m. on Friday, and I'd like to ask how long this meeting will be planned to continue. It must be clear to everyone that there's not going to be a very fast future yet. I'm asking a president if it doesn't count enough, and people are going to settle over it if there are any possibilities for redemption in sight.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u198	A respectable president. The situation has not been improved for the council program, as it has been here these past few days. A major part of the employment committee had never planned to get legal advantages for Hagwater activation and the Cradle. But in his efforts to try to activate all the benefits of a lower part of Þrjörður, members of the committee seem to have installed these advantages so that at some political horse weddings, they could buy them something else. A respectable president. But of course, it's so naive that it doesn't talk, but it's too completely indecent, and it's a long time before the president takes the stand and initiates the case. This is no longer going to work, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u199	A respectable president. I think it's very time for the President and the members of the program to think about and see if there's any peace to be achieved on how we continue the Senate until the end. I think it'll be over in about ten days, five days or so. It's not about to be successful, or that the government can present the important issues we all agree on, for example, the case of seas, stable taxes, I think it's called, and people have talked about taking away the currency. We agree that there are matters that are very needed and that need to be discussed before the end of the council. So I want to ask the president that she should talk to her associates about trying to turn this whole thing to a better perspective on the way we are now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u200	Madam President. This time, I'm not going to discuss that the proposed proposal is uncompressed, but the fact that it is not only willing to compromise with a policy frame of action but it is to cover the total failure of the government to cope with conditions in the labour market and the serious conditions of a housing market. As a senator, I must ask myself, " Is it reasonable that I have to watch the photon servers to know what the Ministers are doing? ' I listened to the highest. Social Affairs minister declares that the bills were on their way. Clearly, it is not enough to listen to the radio, it seems wrong, for now another media informs us that it is not. Perhaps it is true that the vice president of the United States here pointed out and was stolen for, covering the facts that this government is completely unable to deal with the situation here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u201	V.E.G. President. It's a little strange that we're standing here on a speech chair and addressing the highest. The president will give an answer to all aspects of the program held at the council. But it is proper to remind us that we are put on the committee as prime committee at the council, although it is customary for one president to decide what is planned for us. I'd like to ask the highest. A president who is now on the President's chair whether the program or the planning of the council has been discussed on the Presidency Committee. The situation has become so now that I think it would be wise not to just drop out of this matter but to stop the council for a week or so as we get to know what we're going to expect in spring. We're getting reports that we're going to have bills, if we don't come, something in the collective agreements, maybe not. Is it not good, then, that we just go back and start doing this all over again? I challenge the highest. An acting president insists that the prime committee arrange a meeting for the coming weeks because we have some explanation for what is coming in the spring months. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u202	V.E.G. President. First, I'd like to commend the highest. A model president at the President's conference board asking why. paritaprevir After making a comment to her talk, Katrín Júlíusdóttir's daughter apologized, hoping that the discussion will take place in many areas and, of course, discuss the dress code and employment markets. The talk was fine. paritaprevir Jón Þór son of Ólafsson, of course, is an organized labour market in which the contract is negotiated and elected by the collective body of employee and professional drivers. It may well be that the government can settle there in the final meters, which I have full faith in will happen and that it is working on. Let all of us hope that this will happen. The other thing, I'd like to say that some committee party more, with the language we're discussing here, came over 110 parties, gave reviews, and we're supposed to respect it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u203	A respectable president. What I'm sorry about, too, is that we're discussing these matters here, when there's fires in the labour market, and we're supposed to be dealing with them with filming issues, is that the Ministers should say it on radio shows, like that. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingadóttir mentioned earlier, and still fancied that the bills are coming in here which mattered to that dispute. Now it turns out that for more than two weeks these bills have been before they won't come in here. However, Ministers still insist on a radio interview. What the hell is going on here? How about we put things straight and say, "We can't handle the situation, we'll band together, and we'll try to do something intelligently so that we can answer the call for the improved standard of living in the country. " We as officers, and the whole government, I know, are certainly ready for that conversation. I don't think it's good to start it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u204	Madam President. The government of Sigmundur Davíð, the Gunnlaugsson of Gunoll, runs here an old-fashioned Polish bitch with horse shops when it comes to the nation's resources. This is most evident in the case we are now discussing and in the language at which we speak. Councilmen and the highest. Minister here today. It's a mess. Mrs. President hardly hopes that the government will begin to form a frame plan off the board. I'd like to ask like someone else did. Councilmen here: When does Mrs. President expect this meeting to be concluded? It's almost five o'clock. It would be good for us senators to find out when she intends to break up. I'm also asking, "Where's the highest? Environment Minister? Why isn't she here watching the discussion and sharing in it with us? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u205	Madam President. I agree with the government council members who have spoken and in themselves are happy to see that the director of the Environment and Transport Committee has finally had the opportunity to enter the discussion. I think it's very important, because I've said, like others, that this case belongs in there. I hope then, of course, that committee will stand on her feet to this synonym. Of course, I would like to ask like others: " How long shall we continue? What is the purpose of continuing when it is clear that the matter will not be successful at the council as it has been prepared? We have here a declaration of policy with many interesting goals that the government intends to work on and that would have been interesting to see, including In education, where the government places great importance on furthering the education system with the interests of students and the people of all countries on the basis of their education. [[The president calls.]] That's not what's being done, a respectable president, already the highest. Secretary of education is attacking the U.S. high schools. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u206	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you when the scheduled meeting is due today. It's a strange job in that sense, and I haven't known it before, that you don't know when you can log out, although, of course, you stick to the screen or documents when you come home to watch more. In some people's lives, they have children and have to go to school, play, and so do they. I need to know if I can pick up my child from school for 15 minutes. If there's a secret, maybe it would be wise for the President to just call my husband and let him know, i.e. if this is something top secret. I'd like to know when it's scheduled to leave here so I can do my other duty.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u207	The president can easily tell. Like what? A senator knows that this meeting will continue until eight o'clock tonight, and it's the President's plan that it will be done, but there will be no more meeting, and there are no plans to seek permission for an evening meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u208	A respectable president. We've been told that collective agreements are upset and the labour market is on fire. At that time, the government and the government groups have spoken more often than about their involvement in it, and this was an expedient step in housing. A respectable president. By Sunday, it was the highest. The Eygló Harðardóttir of an interview in the episode Explosive, and she was optimistic that there was a bill on the way, and it would really affect the collective agreements and this discussion. Then it turns out in the news that it was two weeks ago that the case was retracted. I'm asking, Mr. Honorable President, is this honest? [[Foreground on: No.]] As far as I can see, I'm deliberately using deception. I think it's very serious, and then we're here to discuss -- what? We are discussing a frame plan that is raised when we should be discussing this serious situation and the picture here is drawing up. It is not enough that ministers are not the problem but that they are not speaking right to the media and the public in the country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u209	A respectable president. Although it is permitted to continue the meeting until 8:00, it is quite unusual, unless there is much delay or the end of the council, to continue the discussion much longer than on Friday, but let it be. I wanted to make some comments about the fact that a minister of finance is involved here on a matter of Congress that he does not care for. In some places, people who are supposed to be at work cannot be on Facebook. Perhaps there is reason to say what. A senator and a chief. The secretary of finance for Bjarni Benediktsson said that when he's supposed to be at work, he shouldn't be on Facebook. At any rate, it is clear that he is not paying special for action at the Facebook meeting. I allow you to doubt that there is a need for incursion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u210	V.E.G. President. I just want to agree with those who have come up here and urged the president to end this meeting and try to make peace. It is clear that this will not end here today or in the next few days. I also wondered, " Why on earth is this proposal being made? ' I could understand if there was no electricity in this country, as just happened. There's no electricity. There's nothing missing. In this regard, members of the board have talked about the need to get professional wheels started. Where's that crack? There are 3% unemployment in this country, just over bed, and there have been reports on the affairs of the tourists that so much work is ahead of moving people into large numbers to care for them. And then other members of the board are talking about it, huh? paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson, this is the future for our children, and these are the golden opportunities for the children. Then let them decide if it should be activated, because we don't need electricity, so we're clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u211	V.E.G. President. I feel compelled to come here carrying volleyball from the head of the Independence Party. I'm convinced that his Facebook account was broken into, and he must be on his way down here to tell us that he had taken appropriate measures and that he will, of course, never take such a serious discussion on community media beyond that, rather than coming here on the platform and accepting a discussion here. I'll just let me believe it until another thing turns out it just can't be. I come here as head of the welfare committee and declare it a surprising reminder of the Supreme Court. A social minister said one thing on the radio, which reveals that it was wrong, and we at the council have been preparing to accept matters that are important to rent people. V.E.G. President. I think it's a perfect disrespect for what's happened. The welfare committees and members of Congress, and I expect to go to the highest level. The president will review these matters with the highest order. Social Minister and get an explanation for this biography and this delay. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u212	Mr. President. Today, the debate at the council is in total trouble. It is not enough that this will be the subject of a matter that the whole government would consider to be very incomplete and not available for discussion but also of the top news. The social and housing minister is canceled or has withdrew the big housing conditions she has yet announced for this council. I feel much closer to putting off the discussion that is on the program right now and starting to discuss the issues that really matter right now, i.e. What the hell. The government intends to take the lead in the affairs of the nation's housing, as well as the mass of the people, but its hairyness is in the jugular. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's what we're supposed to be talking about right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u213	A respectable president. I understand I'm number 26 of the members of Congress who want to comment on the President's conference board, which is just deaf. I'm on the rosary, and I'd like to discuss the box. I understand that it could be in two, three days if it keeps looking, sometime in the middle of the next week. It's actually completely crazy. They called me for where I'd been, but I have to leave my rights and mine. paritaprevir She's gonna do a lot of Ólafsdóttir's gonna do it later. She's gonna be watching TV discussions and checking papers and stuff. I could not understand her better than she was going to. I suppose the government council members who aren't here are like the rest of us watching the discussion and doing their job. So I'm asking the government or the people here to honor us... to assume that we're working... even if we're not sitting here listening to the President's conference board. [[The president calls.]] It's impossible to hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u214	A respectable president. I think that's what we're talking about. 3.m. That's the north side. might come up with more or less anything to say here in a pita except possibly: perhaps the more part should listen from time to time to the constant criticism of the program here. Now it's got the highest. The secretary of finance publicly said on Facebook, the Good News book, or what to say, a respectable president, that there needs to be a time frame over discussion and give a respectable president more power over the Senate work. Now I don't know what power the president might be referring to because my understanding is that a respectable president has total control over the program, yes, that's from what we're complaining about here. The solution to this is no more power, no matter how this might be possible, but the distribution of power to the council, to a nation, with all possible democratic schemes, rather than constantly going into it when the debate here does not please the more part to limit the discussion than to participate in it, which I actually celebrate. 3.m. That's the north side. [[The president calls.]] He intends to do it. At any rate, the solution is not to give the Almighty greater authority. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u215	Mr. President. Here is a proposal for a resolution on the change in the synopsis of a national protection and energy efficiency programme, often referred to a Framework Programme. Initial proposal highest. The Environment Minister expected one change in that schedule, i.e. that Impulse Impulse Impulsive Impulse should be displaced from a waiting category to use. But as we know after the discussion here, mainly in the discussion, but also in the President's conference board, more and more of the situation changed. The employment committee suggests four new activation options. Thus, we are discussing a completely different matter, Mr. President, in a subsequent discussion of the synonym, but what was originally proposed. I have to say, an evil suspect woke up at the beginning when the decision was made to make a suggestion to the studio. Environment Minister, based on the assessment of project management, to that end. Work committee, but not why. The Environment and Transport Committee, which had taken care of the Framework Programme and had even received a structured task management program informally to prepare for the proposal we expected. A majority of the council was then determined to send the matter to what extent. The employment committee on the grounds that this is a waiting transfer to use, however, if there was a transfer from waiting to protection, it would be all referred to. Environment and Transport Committee. This seems to me, and I still don't think that there is a judgeless hearing which does not show an understanding of the total sense of a frame plan, which is, of course, a series of possible activations so that we assess each possible activation in relation to others, and so let's line them in a protection party, a waiting party with missing data or a replacement party. It has not yet been determined by the Council's Management Board whether it is planned then, if it is proposed by the Framework Programme to transfer the benefits to protection, to provide specific suggestions, and to refer them to the question. Environment Committee. I think the thought behind this committee reference was that there should be more benefits against the process as legal in the Law on Framework. I think that was the thought. I'm sorry about that, because I said in the beginning that this is now some kind of accident, some flumbrabism on a committee reference that doesn't necessarily have any political meaning, but I'm beginning to agree with what the case has been going on. The day comes when it comes. Congress members, please. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, Haraldur Benediktsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Páll Jóhann Pálsson, Þorsteinn Sæmundsson and Þórunn Egilsdóttir, who sign the committee's opinion of the greater part, clearly believe that they have been assigned as some kind of new task management in relation to the above talks and based on the committee's opinion, where they provide an independent assessment of four other initiatives and make recommendations for them here. True, we have been informed, which is an illuminator of the task force in this case, all of which have been declared clean by the highest degree. Prime Minister at the highest. The Environment Minister has made some agreement with the greater part, so it may be possible that adjustments will be made to the adjustment proposal whatever we can say about that form all of it. So here are four new options, Urrastician activation, Holtician activation, and Hagwater activation, and this is the only discussion. When you hear what? The members of the greater part are just terrible under the discussion that has been asked that we are talking terribly much, then first of all I have to say that I don't have any sympathy for this sentimentality, but I think it's a scary mess, Mr. President, and I'm sorry to use such words, worse words have actually been used for our language. [[It's a wallroom larceny.]] This is a big case, and we have only one discussion to discuss it, which is most unusual, because this is a legal procedure here - Mr. President, it would be good for us to have a sound to hear in our own pontu. It is passed by a legal procedure that is prescribed by the laws on the framework of a task management programme to complete work. However, it has been made clear, and it is very clear in the Congress itself of the Supreme Court. Environment Minister that project management has not completed the four benefits considered here. It says right here at the highest. The minister referred to eight features of the project that he specifically asked to be evaluated, there were the three activations listed here in lower part of the Tubular wound, that was Cradle activation and Sharkism I and II, Hags water activation and Habitat wound healing at Atley. This was followed by the task management committee, and its results can be read in the report at the highest level. Minister. It will appear, and I would like to read from the report, by permission of a respectable president: ▪ In terms of the three activations at the Three Ages and in February 2014, it was early seen that it would not be possible to obtain the missing data so that a revised proposal could be made at the World Council in February 2014, although it was clear that some of the data would need to be re-evaluated. the effect of the fortresses on the vast and protective areas of Lake Earth's habitat, as well as the combined effects of the inducers and electrical transport systems. The task management did not believe that they had a basis for evaluating these factors without the ability of fully formed professional groups, although it is unclear whether such a work programme met the standards of 1 mg. Count 9. track No. 48/2011, about a protection and energy efficiency programme. The head of Project Management made Ministers of Environment and Resources account for this conclusion of the project management at a meeting on October 8, 2013. Here goes on: ▪ As a result of a project tour, it was apparent that, in addition to the uncertainty mentioned previously on the effects on sandfew, natural land modeling, outdoor and travel services, the link of activation with transport systems was unclear, thereby creating new uncertainty about the structure and effect of the line layer from activation and the cohesive effects of activation and transport systems. Nor did the task management feel that they had no basis for finishing this estimate without the introduction of fully appointed professional groups, and this was made clear by a minister. This, of course, rhymes with what is considered here also available from the Environment and Resource Ministry, which specifically says, by permission of the president: In view of previous coverage, it must be concluded that since a project management was not dealing materially with five specific activation initiatives, i.e. Gangs I and II gangs, Hag Lakes and Hólstäi v/Atley, like law No. 48/2011, if the proposed activations are still in the management of project management by the Ministry of Environment and Resources. The Project Management Board has not provided a suggestion on the classification of these costs for Minister and Parliamentary thinking now available for the Council. The original - do not charge for them. Therefore, the Environment and Resource Department's assessment of law no. 48/2011 does not assume that the General will be able to change the category of these costs since the legal process of protection and energy efficiency has not been established in this respect. Not much clearer, Mr. President. Legal procedures have not been performed. While the Senate may have quite a bed, it does. Of course, members of the Parliament can offer suggestions that are not limited to laws unless the law is changed. This I would have considered fairly obvious, Mr. President, and reiterate the comments I have made to the decision of a respectable president, who is actually put in a very open word, i.e. It's said that the luminous luminary will stumble to do so. In spite of this, it seems to be the case with the Commission's memo. I asked the highest. The minister of the environment today, in contrast to her speaking, is it not true that she is incompetent to the task management program, in view of the fact that it seemed to be enough compromises - a compromise that we have not seen but heard of from the highest level? Prime Minister - not to release Hag Sea, in view of the fact that this was Sólden strictly specific, too, that it would not have had a legal consideration, except that the project management has not completed the application of Urcratic activation or Holtician activation, as shown in the paper in the motion. V.E.G. The minister said that she would trust much in the project management, yet she does not intend or at least Does she not suggest that we follow the advice of the project management? This, of course, is more tragic and heavier than tears. Since 2007, I have been at a council meeting, Mr. President, and have participated in a discussion about the report of the Allied Council of Research Committee, and I have read the report and have read the criticisms presented in Iceland's politicians, the General politicians, the culture within the political parties. One thing that was tore up in detail was the need for politicians to listen to what professional professionals had to say and say. Trying to lead this issue, this major issue in Iceland, which means how we use our resources, the attempt to lead it into some normal process, of course, was the purpose of a frame plan, but then we have to expect them to be followed. It is not enough to set a law frame, since we try to assign professionals to set priming options if we are not going to listen to them. And we who sat here during the last term agreed on a 63:0 suggestion that we were truly going to do something about what was presented in the General Commission report, improving the political process. Yeah, we're gonna do it, we all said. We all said that. True, there were not many of them. Senators who sign the committee here during the last term, actually just one I think, but that doesn't change the fact that you would have continued to do that. Part of it is listening to professionals, and it is not enough to get up here. The members of the greater part of the employment committee have already done and referred to local authorities who are continuing to get these activations started as presented here. It's just not the same as professional food. The local government is in politics, just like the rest of us. It's not the same as having a professional evaluation and waiting for a professional project manager's evaluation, I don't think that there's any answer to what we've already pointed out that it's a project management project to complete their coverage. Hv. A job management committee can make adjustments, but it must wait for a project management to complete its work programme coverage. It can make suggestions about changes once a project management has completed the work programme. Then it can be handled in a political arena, even if professionals try to do something about it, we can deal with it in the event of an emergency. People want to change it and affect it, but they do not even wait for the completion of their task management. Why are we talking so much about this? Why do we feel that this is so important? Yes, that's because we're discussing the future work structure, aren't we? Well, let's see, Mr. President, according to the energy agency, 50% of all the active hydropowers and geothermals in Iceland has been activated. This has happened in no very long time. We know the history of electricalizations in Iceland and the first activations that were built here, the Sow Factories, were extremely important for the construction of employment in Iceland at that time. We also know the story behind the decision to start, including By means of a non-world development fund, in a major industry, and in Straumsvík construction campaign. It was a policy of professional activity that took place in the middle of the 20th century. Of course, we must move in the age of our times and what has happened since then. Now we live in this country, where we're trying to develop more support for the job structure. I don't have to ask. Senators of this, they know as well as I do that our largest exports at this time are tourism. Not even a trip service about ten years ago, she just didn't think anything, didn't look great, she'd never be a future job. Now it is the largest export road at this time, and everyone intends to participate. But why do these tourists come here? Are they coming to watch the continuum transfunctioners? No, they come because of nature. When we are faced with a balanced view of how we build up our secular roads, let us look at the fact that we already have a new 50% of the power of activation and of the earth. We've already built quite a bit of crafts, I can well understand those who want to defend them and look to some future structure in it, you might think about some of the future development there, for example. in the field of data beings, but watch that we've done quite a lot in the short time we've had in our technology to activate the resources we have. It's important that we leave some decisions behind, but it's also important that we realize that the people who come here are coming here to watch these falls. When we shall speak of the multitude of tourists, because he is indeed become so in many parts of the land, I give the name of Gold Falls and Geysi, we may see that we have, for example. Three waterfalls at Þjóturðu just around the area, Denk, Gökule Search Falls, and Kylkasfs, and if it were possible to make them more accessible to tourists, a real tourist location that would attract tens of thousands of tourists each year - if we looked at them as such a resource. I'm sorry, though, for the discussion in this room, the main focus is the one - sided work structure. We have the seabed, too, so don't forget. That's what we're supposed to build on. We are required to build on many pillars. We're not just supposed to watch the industrial energy resource use, we're supposed to look at the tourism services, we're supposed to look at the sea resources, the research and innovation that, of course, has something to do with all our resources but also with intelligence. That's what we're supposed to watch. That's what the public in the country already realizes. Sixty percent of people, according to a new poll, are involved in forming a national park in the middle of the country. If there's an attack on Trident Fortress, we're going into the same central highland. That does not mean that the activation is now not seen very much because large objects become underground. It doesn't make any difference that we're going into a virgin territory, we divide it by deeds of men, and we can't overlook it. We're going into an area we could choose here and now make a park. Why do I think that's a good idea? Yes, the vast majority of the areas in the central area are the vast majority of unsettled areas in Europe. The largest unmoved region in Europe. When we fly abroad and fly across Europe, we see all the tiny squares, all the little stamps that have been sharing in the smallest centimetres, and then we come home and I know that everybody has. People feel like me, I'm sure they feel like me when they look at the lava surfaces, the glaciers, the moss and the pull that pops out without any human sharing because it's unscrupulous. Well, then everyone must realize the same resource we have. That's what 60% of the population have at least figured out, that it's a resource. It's a resource that matters to protect itself. This nature is there independent of us and it's important to protect it for its own good, but it's also a resource because it's important that those who come here to go up to the highlands reach for exactly this. They're not trying to drive there, stop at the shop, get a hot dog, look at the other, and just up on the glacier, they're looking for what we can call the microwave, which has been so in our literature, poetry, and fiction, it's the desperate, and the vastness that is truly rich in the modern world, where the harassment is so contrary that you can hardly ever experience the despair of life. It must be acknowledged, Mr. President, that high-voltage lines, monumental structures, roads -- all of this affects the experience. I therefore think that the reason why we discuss this proposal for so long and well is that it will lead to policy-making on the central highlands, which can lead to our inability to return, Mr. President, irreversible effects. While they say here: Well, even though we put this in a group of innovations, it's moving this into a class of novelty that's much more dramatic than moving from use to wait. If we move out of use to hold, we're going to wait for professionals to have more time to collect data. Because I have a short period of time left, but I was going to mention only the continuum transfunctioners in Þjótur, so it is in the report at the highest level. A minister with an original proposal gives strong evidence that it is not a good idea to bring the Uryrofos reactivation and Holta activation into a novelty class at this time. It's because of the wild salmon population. I'm going to use my last minute to remind us that the central highlands are not just valuable. Let's see that there's a habitat of the largest wild salmon in the North if we can say so, in the Northern Hemisphere, it's a huge resource, and we don't want to take steps that could interfere with the existence of this fish. There is evidence to support the creation of scholars who have been working for the North Atlantic Salmon Fund that there is a much greater need to investigate the impact of counter-important measures such as seagulls and other factors before we can make this decision. I would say that in this case, Mr. President, it would be so simple for the greater part to wait this year until a project administration will be replaced by an argument over the situation with the proposed changes, because there is so much to it, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]] There is a future policy in sectoral development and environmental protection below. [[The president calls.]] That's what I want us to think about when we have a conversation about these matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u216	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for a good speech. She was very comfortable with the debate over the legality of putting the proposal here on the program and this modification proposal from the greater part of the year. Business committee. I'd like to ask you what. A senator to the position that is up to the highest level. The Environment and Resource Minister gave his speech today and made it very clear that she listened to a former project management and was ready to support its findings before a narrative process announced by preliminary rules in the framework, but did not intend to listen to the current task management. I wondered, " What position of the project management is now after those words? ' Minister. Is it really likely that it will continue if the ultimate one? The Environment and Resource Minister overlook its results? Then I'd like to pray, too. A senator, if she has time, to express his opinion on words at the highest. The prime minister today, but he said something about having nothing to do with the opposition to the government while this matter was being planned. I understood the best. The prime minister so that only the government would not be spoken to while discussing these matters. I want to ask you why. A senator how she interpreted these words of the minister. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u217	Mr. President. If we first intend to speak the highest. Prime Minister, this is not a major change of course. The prime minister has chosen in his work to have less consultation with the opposition, completely contrary to what is presented in the government covenant of the present government, which speaks specifically of the value of consultation and cooperation. I haven't seen much advances on the top of my mind. The prime minister of talking to the government, and during this discussion he felt that he was not prepared for any conversation. Of course, that means that he is not prepared for any reconciliation in this matter. It is sad about the advance party that was at one time called the Conspiracy Party in New York City. I think that inheritance is long gone. For the highest. The secretary of the environment, I asked the highest. Environment Minister, whether or not her declaration will allow her to accept the last task management rather than the current task management would be distrust of the current task management. She said that she had high trust in the current project management, but she also said that her attitude was influenced by the last project management. Because the word misunderstanding is often raised when discussing the present government for some reason, I think that it is behind some great, profound misunderstanding of the law on a frame plan because of the highest. On the contrary, a minister speaks on the opinions of his own Ministry, which is about the legal function of the current task management. It's not wise how you interpret the law exactly, that you can just choose to listen to what the last project management said and not what the current project management says. [[The president calls.]] But this is a complicated situation for the current project management.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u218	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answers. Hv. A senator came in and reminded us of an agreement we had here during the last term, a Senate decree adopted by 63:0, which included. A discussion on better politicians, that it was necessary to improve the politicians, and the people agreed to that in their discussion on the report of the Allied Research Committee. Senators would have to clean up on their own concerns. It's been two years since the highest. Governments took over, and we're talking about a horse market on the resources of the country, natural resources both to land and to sea. I want to ask you why. A member of Parliament: What advice does she consider the government to have in this position other than a filibuster?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u219	Mr. President. This is a complex situation. Of course, it has to do with what is at its height. Financial minister tore his Facebook page earlier today, i.e. It would take a shortening of the speech period and, of course, the greater part too, but most of it would be the start of the reign here because it has no other options. For example, I have been among those who have spoken of the opposition of the government or the condition of the less members of the council to bring matters to the nation. I haven't heard much of it since then. More than that, members of the body may change if they find it difficult to attend this discussion, but the discussion is the device we have. I have to say, because people are always discussing this discussion in a very negative way like it's very bad, I think there's a lot of things that have already been done in the discussion. She's made me a lot more light, like. what the viewpoint was on the mind. More than a portion of the job board when he took care of the situation, so I view the discussion as useful even if it takes time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u220	A respectable president. Thank you. A candidate for a material talk and rejoices that we have started the program and discuss these things objectively. Hv. A senator makes publicity and minimizes local governments and rural organizations, including members of the community, as well as members of the local community. The person here has been quoting and as a review from the Allied Union of Iceland. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament, whatever reviews it had been as a former environmental minister, made it so clear that she produced six recruitment options for a waiting party, whether it was a more remarkable party, which reviews it was, and from any sources who knew more about this than those professional groups who had already worked hard to prepare their proposal. I want the answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u221	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I did not minimize the reports received by the Committee, either a local partner or others; however, I pointed out that they were not to be viewed in the same way as the results of professional groups, which especially include professionals to examine specific aspects, environmental factors, often social and economic factors, in these environmental situations, to assess the overall effects of potential activation. I think it's two different things. As far as I'm downplaying politicians in general, I'm notlittleing local hearsay. They have a job to do, but I'm going to make a picture, anyway. Senator, not calling me a professional to judge the environmental effects of the potential inducers. I don't have a box vision, so I'll get a chance to crash here. With regard to the subsequent procedure of the Framework Programme, it is quite clear in the law that once the project management has produced a minister, it is given a legal reporting deadline, just as suggested by the Hagming procedure. Here, in the grandest report. Ministers present all the details received from sources of this proposal. That is very well explained in the report. In the odd case. A senator asks for 225 envelopes and tops. The minister made the decision to suggest to the council that there would be three possible activation options for the Þjórð, not for use, not for protection, but for waiting, i.e. The review was such that it was considered a reason to obtain more information. It seems reasonable to have been made in the conclusion of a project administration, which simply says that there is good reason to consider further the observations of the wild salmon population in Þjótur. So I can't see that this is anything like it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u222	A respectable president. Whether this information is useful in the environmental assessments or implementation is debated. Hv. A senator said that tourists would come here to enjoy nature. I can totally agree with that. However, the largest tourist resort in the country where the majority of tourists come is the Blue lagoon. The blue lagoon is due to the continuum transfunctioner. In the South, a resource park has been created where the locals are self-sustainingly using the energy of the country and resulting in a tarmac and is already picking up tourists.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u223	Mr. President. Of that I have to say that I'm not saying that all human activity is necessarily terrible. An example of this is the case when water was fed by our ancestors on the roof to ensure water for meetings. Perhaps I would have opposed it then if I had been allowed to attend a meeting, which I would no doubt have received as a woman. But it doesn't make you think it's beautiful today. What I'm pointing out is that we have enormous value in our unmoved nature, a value that no other European nation boasts. For example, it is a new marketing project in Iceland. What's showing us? By the power of this unmoved nature. It's the one that attracts tourists who travel in different ways. Many do not go up to the highlands; many enjoy nature in just man - made environments. I'm just pointing out that there we have an enormous amount of value that we need to be very careful about.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u224	A respectable president. As soon as we're back. A senator disagrees deeply about these matters in general, not at all, but that we agree that unoriginal nature is important to us. If you look particularly at this synonym, its main theme, which is activated at the bottom of Þjórð and the Cave century, is not at all a threat to unscrupulous nature, unless less so. That is where we live. I only want to see this point with tourists and fortresses, that tourists don't come to Iceland to see the fortresses, and this was over the Blue lagoon. But there are thousands of people over thousands of tourists who are especially about to examine the fortresses. Just Hellish activation one comes around 100 of you. Visitors a year. That's what makes her one of the country's mass - flung tourist attractions. The route has been opened for the public, and it is a clear way for the public and tourists to come to these places. Hv. A senator well described the process, and what was done during the last terms, and a minister's decision to take into account the many reports received. In fact, it has not often been observed in the discussion, but the vastst part of the talk was spread, so the masses do not say everything, that was a group letter sent. I think we're in exactly the same situation right now. We're evaluating the reviews. After their reviews, we came to a conclusion, far more extensive. I thought why. A senator talks a little down to the locals and local authorities earlier, I can't help it, when she said that they were different from the rest of this discussion. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We're in exactly the same process.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u225	Mr. President. I'd like to ask you what. In contrast, who else wants to watch Gold Falls are disabled or activated? Or Kappos? Or Dynk, many of whom have wanted to activate, the most beautiful falls in America? It's not the same experience, and I'm not just talking for myself, looking at waterfalls that have been meant, and even directing them and looking at empty waterfalls. Foos are one of the most remarkable natures we can watch, arouses thoughts about eternity, and how long they've spent in their places. Woodroofs, where we know it, now a land miner hid a gold chest. They've been here much longer than we have. That is what is so important to think about. It's nature that's been here a lot longer than we are, will be here long after our day. Hence, we need to ask ourselves, " Which part of us is involved in this nature? ' As far as the process is concerned, I reject the fact that I spoke down the rumors of a local or a local community. That's not true. I'm pointing to it, and I think it's a legitimate comment that we shouldn't confuse local society sources, locals, and professional reviews. I consider myself to be one of them. I'm a politician. I can have my opinion. Still, I am forced to heed the headlines of a professional. When I read the original suggestion, I tried to do this as a picture, since the comments received in the legal process all follow up. They all go to the Minister's office. What we have criticized is that the law requires that this process of confidentiality take place and then a minister proposes. The Congress, as I have understood it, can make changes in sorting, but that the council directly suggest a new possibility, that's what I have questions about standing the law as they were thought. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u226	A respectable president. I think people are getting a little bit out of the discussion, that's a metaphor for her when talking about whether to activate Dennk, Goldphoss, or Fallifos, or Sköfofos, or Seljalands. Of course, no one is talking about it. No one's talking about it. This is a measure of escape from the material discussion of the subject. I'm telling you, we're actually making exactly the same changes that were made during the last term, just another direction. The task management at that time was surprised, in interviews with the head of the project management committee, that ministers should not be hired. This may show that in a series of professionals the estimates can vary. They do not agree on one conclusion. But I can do it. So a senator would agree with me that just as we had to bend over in the last term in a great argument for the democratic election more part at the council, is it now that it is democratically elected more things that suggest, we vote on this thing, and that the democratic vote is more to rule? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u227	Mr. President. There is a tendency here in the discussion to say that some things cannot be talked about. When I mention waterfalls, special waterfalls, I'm not saying that nobody's already suggested that they be activated, I'm just discussing that we've activated half of the water and the geothermal. Those falls I mentioned haven't been activated and they're valuable. It's the big film that I find perfectly normal to discuss and I'm not gonna be told--yes, good, that I'm killing the talk of a spread. [[...we agree.]] However, in terms of these comments on the process, the law assumes that the process of confidentiality is to be expected. There's a plot in the law. From that point on, you can conclude, as I said before, that the council can so make adjustments in the categories proposed by a minister, but I put a question mark on the fact that the council is actually making suggestions on new advantages. And let us note that this is a much more dramatic form of suggestions than it was during the last terms recommended to reduce temporary use. [[The president calls.]] This is a suggestion to reduce the benefit of waiting for use, i.e. a significant final decision. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u228	A respectable president. I have to say, I think it means a lot of taste on the top part of the world. A president arranges the program management so that the fine talk is excellent. paritaprevir Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, would now make a final discussion. I think it's all been brought up for reasons that this case is not supposed to be on the program. I've come here to make an even more comment that the members of the board claim that they misused the council in the power of any greater part. Now it made the head of the professional trade committee, and it must be held in hand that last elections did not get more votes, let alone that they received the majority of the support of the Icelandic nation. That's not true at all. And since the election, half of the people who supported them have been evicted so that they do not speak in the name of any greater part and do nothing to the majority of the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u229	A respectable president. I reiterate the request that has been made to the highest level. Minister of the environment, come here and take this discussion. It doesn't mean to bring in any reports that people are making decisions on the progress of the government in the morning, announce it to us at the council around noon, and then walk away. We're in the final issue, this is our final tour. We don't have any other time. V.E.G. The prime minister said this morning that he was going to talk to the government when this discussion was over, but this is the final talk so that we must ask for at least the Ministers who discuss this matter at their meetings in the morning and make decisions as to how the matter will be handled, sit here, and listen to our arguments in the position of government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u230	A respectable president. Why is that so? The Environment and Resource Minister is not here? Why is the minister not at the discussion? She has been asked to attend this discussion many times. Why isn't she here? Has she been notified that she is wanted here? This was repeatedly done yesterday with very limited success. She's making an announcement in the discussion today and she's leaving. V.E.G. The prime minister also comes in with a discussion about prepared inquiry, and then he leaves, speaking as soon as he is going out of the hall about the importance of reasoning, as usual, the importance of reasoning, he says, and then walking on the door. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Where's the bottom line? Environment and Resource Minister? This discussion will continue to be different from that of the Minister of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u231	The President's not clear if he's at the highest. While the president was not in the President's chair, a minister was alerted earlier to this meeting but will take steps then.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u232	V.E.G. President. I agree with what. paritaprevir Svavarsdóttir. It is so remarkable here in our discussion that the administrative sector finds it surprising that jobs are expected and if things take longer than they had thought, they would have reasons to change the council. V.E.G. The minister of the environment arrived earlier this week, and it also seemed unnatural that the Senate didn't depend on her needs, that she had to wait a little too long to get on the platform. She felt that this was more serious than the administrative issue in opposition to her own ministry and counsel from there. [[The president calls.]] I believe the Environment and Resource Minister should come here and be on this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u233	A respectable president. Now I'm glad to see the ultimate. I've been here all day asking a respectable president who here has always sat in the same question, why do we have this case on the agenda, why is it more important? I've asked the highest one before. A president who has come to any professional opinion he made based his decision to allow more of the changes to be made to a part of the employment committee. As for me and other members of the council, the adjustment proposal simply doesn't count in time, that it doesn't pass the framework law. I would still pray and appreciate the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u234	Regarding the decision of the president, the President only refers to the decision. It gives evidence of support for the decision of a president on that subject, and the matter is thoroughly tore.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u235	A respectable president. Now it's about 15 minutes to six. I'm not much for boasting about it, but I'm a senator and I would have expected a contact with me if there was something to discuss. There's not been any talk with me, and I'm not aware of other council leaders, so there's clearly nothing to discuss with the government. In view of this, I must agree, for the first time, notice that there will be a recession at this meeting, and I will talk about the Council's program to solve this. When the council doesn't agree on what should be discussed, it is too much for me to hold a meeting. This should be very simple, we should be quick to figure it out, but as already noted, there is no conversation about how we are going to conduct affairs. And in the meantime, I don't think it's helpful to have a meeting. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u236	Mr. President. I have to agree with my friends here. V.E.G. Of course, the prime minister will be talking about reasoning, and those in the government should be here in the hall and listen. The director of the left movement ▪ Green Pronunciation presented his first talk in this big, important language, and I feel completely unacceptable to the top. A minister should not have seen fit to be in a council hall. Should it be necessary to ask the minister to represent the matter that she may consider to be the most important of all? Since it is forced into the program every day, it must be here, stand by, and follow through, including by making an answer to those in positions of government. I don't think it's the least thing to say to the heads of the clans. And because there's been a lot of reviews here, I'd like to say that I can't see that ASI is supporting this case. I'd love to hear it. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson, who found me, marked the line in which ASI is such a terrible supporter of this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u237	V.E.G. President. I agree with the members of the council who have spoken here and wish for a minister of the environment to be in the hall. In fact, I'm waiting to see the suggestion she preached today so that you can see the logical support behind changing the original bill in a way that gives you one priming option and it's considered sufficient. Second, I think it's extremely important. A prime minister will attend the discussion because I fell into the pit I should have avoided believing a prime minister when he pointed out that ASI had proposals and adjustments. But there is nothing in this letter from ASI, just nothing. They say that they supported the proposal in 2012. When the salmon fields arrived, ASI considered it desirable for the project to be finished, the final result was that work management should be completed before the case was completed. This is exactly the same thing the whole government is asking for. That's the best. Prime Minister lying to ASI that there is something else to consider is still the most rude thing to do. Minister of this council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u238	V.E.G. President. I come here again to encourage the highest. A president to complete this meeting and summon some kind of reconciliation committee. I'm encouraging what I'm doing, too. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, apparently an excellent man to gather more parts of the employment committee and to reroute the proposal, try to make peace in the community, and simply apply what was once decided. I'm not necessarily attacking him, as many people may have done and personalized. I know he's not doing this on his own. He's just gonna get medals from his chairman. It's supposed to be activated here all the time, and I only heard it when we started Fed-creat activation. There he strongly implied that independence was just beginning to activate the land. So I'd like to mention Höskuldur Þórhallsson, who came here earlier and was the number one senator in the world, that he was no. Twenty-six in the row, but for Icesave, Icesave's talks, two, three, four. December 15, 2009, that same one held. Councilman 74 talks.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u239	Mr. President. I can't agree with anyone who complains about a discussion, but this discussion is extremely up-to-date. I'll take it as an example. paritaprevir Its Guðbjartur son of Hannesson tore here, i.e. ASSI comments that have been reviewed since it is recommended that the results of the project management program be asked for all the benefits as much as possible. The pro board proposes here. I think we just need to talk as much as possible here to get all this information and facts, because the discussion is always good. We're in a seminar, not on an assembly line. There's no reason to be, like the highest. Secretary of the budget says, to worry about the performance of the Generals. I think there's some misunderstanding at the General Assembly, that's exactly what I'm trying to do, and that's the issue. I make comments to those who talk about complaining and complaining. I think it's a very good discussion. I don't understand what's in it. The members of the body are complaining about the discussion. They should welcome her.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u240	Mr. President. I agree with the requirement that a meeting will not continue without the highest level. The Environment and Resource Minister has arrived at the chamber. It is now that the state of the council has become somewhat peculiar. It's like the highest. The prime minister described it so well this morning, so it was the best. A government who was making one advantage of the board by making a new proposal for more part of the employment committee. It was the government that was negotiating the benefits of the board and announcing it to the council. I'd like to ask the president if he doesn't think it's a little out of the question, since, of course, the council has the case in its own hands and should rather give its conclusions and give them the highest order. The government knows about it, but not the other way around.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u241	President. I agree with what. paritaprevir For example, when Katrín's daughter, Jakobsdóttir, said that the discussion that follows, we find a number of up - to - date and up - to - date. Nevertheless, I would like to agree with what has been mentioned earlier that the president of this program is trying to find a better way, preferably that the original proposed proposal will come here and we can discuss it. I think it's really important that we're not here, we're in a second discussion. It's impossible to keep her in such a fight. If the President doesn't see fit to do this, at least I'll insist. Minister, Mrs. Sigrún Magnúsdóttir, is present for this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u242	A respectable president. I'm gonna ask you again about the highest. Environment minister Sigrún Magnúsdóttir, whether or not she has been informed that she is requested at the conference. If the highest. The President is going to continue this discussion, and I don't see that it's possible to be the highest. The minister will be there for the discussion. She's been here very far out, yesterday and last day, very far out, and that's not acceptable. In view of the extensive change in her own proposal or her proposal to be premeditated, this is all that she is here and is participating in the argument that has been going on about the adjustment of the proposals. I'd like to agree with what's been said here, that the discussion has been good, it's been informative, and it's been unveilingly exposed as to the argument and the basis of the change. In fact, it does not really stand a stone on a stone. We have talked primarily about shapes, but as the discussion unfolds, and we are talking more about content, it also reveals that there is a very sick foundation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u243	A respectable president. Only from what has been discussed here on ASI, it became very clear, in the 2012 ASI review, that they strongly stressed that these activations would be placed in a category brought to a waiting party by the minister, and it is also to quote a statement and agreed on at ASI centre meeting a year later. I can agree with what. paritaprevir The daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir says that this is a controversial discussion, i.e. when discussing the matter. But the time is very bad and the use of a maskless proponent is in place when more discussion is made to the President's conference board than in the case itself. It's a bad time. In such a situation, just to move forward, I would have wanted to encourage a respectable president to continue tonight. I think that's a good reason. There are many who want to express themselves on this subject and the monologue that we need to respond to that demand. The discussion can also begin to take place more quickly if this point, concerning the President's meeting board, is not abused, as is done in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u244	A respectable president. I understand that it's sour for the smaller part not to be able to control everything here, having to bite the apples for the greater part. But I've been challenged to make this conclusion from ASI that I've read from here, and here it is from 23 October 2013: Sadly, the last government decided to break the reconciliation that had been made in a frame plan, thereby creating an example for political intervention in the professional proposals of the Project Management Board. [...] It is a central assessment that the original proposal of the project management is most likely to create such reconciliation and encourage the General Assembly to comply with the results of the project management. The ASI central management is urging us to do this, so we'll be fine.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u245	Mr. President. I agree with them. Council members who have requested the highest level. The secretary of the environment is present for this discussion. As we have seen, this is a second discussion of the subject, i.e. The last discussion, and of course, at the highest. Environment Minister to attend, listen to the discussion, and even participate according to events. I want to reiterate the question that has been addressed to the highest level. President, the highest. A minister has been notified that her presence is required. I'd also like to ask for the highest. The prime minister is notified and asked that he also be present. He himself asked for it here at the beginning of a meeting to reason on the matter. Then I don't feel too strongly about him being there and sharing in that argument.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u246	A respectable president. I'm just brought up with it that when a prime minister says something he did this morning, I bought it credible, that it might be ASI calling for these changes to help deal with market conflicts. That's just what they said this morning. Then you read the ASI review, and they just say, The European Union of Iceland feels that it is important for the General to support the wide agreement on professional practices that have marked all work in the preparation of a national protection and energy saving programme and therefore suggest that the proposals of the project management are respected at any given time. It was all very intense, and this review was to make it clear to the prime minister that he was standing here and making cortical statements that this change in the frame plan would help in the big talk. This is one of the most real things I've seen, all this disclosure and all the ignorance revealed in the case of the Ministers, and in order, on this matter at the council. They just say something because they're going to do it with all the right advice.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u247	Mr. President. I'm going to continue with ASI's review because I wanted to. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson would review what review he was referring to. This is exactly what it is. When asked when giving her speech, the environmental minister did not answer, i.e. What we're gonna do with new information. How do we do new information? ASI account of the specific changes presented here does not support this case, so people are basically lying here when they witness old information that ASI no longer supports, there are other reasons that ASI thinks they have today. Then you should tell it, huh? Councilmen Páll Jóhann Pálsson and Jón Gunnarsson. As assessed by ASI it is essential that each activation option be discussed by a project management based on professional laboratory findings that should be preceded by the provision of individual activations from one category to another. So many were words. It's the thing, and it says "Santa" but it doesn't say "what it says. " Councilmen have quoted.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u248	V.E.G. President. The situation here is totally unacceptable, just that people come up here and justify this treatment based on ASI's report from 2013. It is 2015, and a new review is available, and it was being read out. V.E.G. I'm afraid the President has decided to participate in this school game. I repeat my request that these matters be reviewed again, and I and others get more support for why the president would consider it appropriate to violate the opinions of the Environment and Resource Ministry on this change proposal. In addition, I believe that until we reach it, we will have the highest power. Environment and resource minister in the hall. It does not seem to do so because, like the rest of the board, she seems to understand what is going on in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u249	A respectable president. I think it's normal to interrupt this meeting until the highest level. The secretary of the environment is here, both because of the growth of the matter and also because the minister has made a special practice in the case of the matter today with the proposal and other matters that further require it to be here during the discussion. Of course, the other must be understood. Environment Minister would avoid being here when her associates have actually taken her and thrown her into a ditch in the case and allowed the Independence Party to lava over the Minister's suggestions, make much more dramatic suggestions than both this minister of the forward party and its predecessor, the Supreme Court. Secretary Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, lived with him. They've decided to shun here before. paritaprevir In Höskuldur of Þórhallsson, chairman of the Environment Commission, they will be brought to nothing by committees. They have nothing here to do with the economic and business committees. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson, in the power of his troops, allows himself to promote some independent opinion other than that of the Independence Party. [[The president calls.]] Of course, it is only tragic to see how the advance team has slipped into the sewer in recent days here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u250	President. It has become so that the prime minister comes on the platform and publishes a statement, saying something about ASI. Then it turns out it's not true when you go to the window in paper. Here comes a senator of the forward party at what point. A professional committee, Páll Jóhann Pálsson, who has not now helped to get this discussion going, and reading and waving here two and a half years old documents. I'm asking you, what's the hurry? Here was a bill for one activation recommended by the project management. What's the rush to take now three, should be four more? Don't you think there's enough electricity in this country? There's a lot of electricity in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u251	V.E.G. President. I mentioned earlier in a talk about the President's conference board, where another president was sitting on the chair that there's good reason to interrupt the council for a week or so that we realized what the council was going on on or not on the way to the council, because we have been informed in the media that we are not expecting sheltermarks. Maybe we're expecting something to take care of, etc. I think it's important that we sit down and we go over this. It's always better and better, and such discussions are now useful. When you start to look at a variety of opinions, especially when you don't have a place on a professional committee, it's showing that they're being wrong about the guys who shop here. They could have considered that some 1,900 years ago, that there was good reason to activate the gold Falls. There were then men who accepted it, there were abundant reasons for it, wasn't there? The ASI offers a resolution but releases the letter sent as an answer to the professional committee. You will also read the opinion of the South Side Association. A similar conclusion is found there. You guys go with the project plan... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u252	A respectable president. We had this case this fall, 2014. It's from the Center of the AST in the autumn of 2013. I can't imagine that much changed there. [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]] Do you have a new conclusion from the centre of the ASI? [[Up front.]] We share here whether to use frame 2 or frame 3.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u253	Unbelievable.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u254	Here is a report from frame 3. [[Up front.]] With President's permission, I only read from it: It soon became clear... [[Up front.]] [[The president's asking for a sound in the Senate Hall while he's doing it. A senator is talking.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u255	He's supposed to be doing the right thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u256	It was soon realized that there was something missing that would make all eight activations acceptable during the short time set aside, especially after realizing that there would be a delay in the order of professional groups because of the uncertainty of payments for the professional groups. These reports cannot be summed up. [[The president calls.]] They say in there that they can't put all the goods in order to... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u257	President wants to ask for a sound in the councilroom. Hv. Congress officials have had a chance to share their views without having to make it their seats.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u258	A respectable president. I have to say, I'm beginning to be very worried about what's going on here. Hv. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson declares that he feels enough about all the data that flows... [[Up front.]] Yes, if I get to finish, I'm not going to give you anything that hasn't been told, but you said something on the way of asking for too much data to estimate protection or activation. Then we're gonna have a snooze. A senator presents up data that are old and are not relevant to this case, this transition, and uses them as evidence in this case. Then we're starting to screw up. We have to talk about the same thing. I'm worried about this as well as the professional assessment as possible. The President's here all the time. [[The president calls.]] I've read it back and forth and forth, and I have to say that in it, there are no professional arguments that recommend that we don't respect laws on the frame plan and consider these adjustments. [[The president calls.]] Materially, there is no evidence to that effect.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u259	Mr. President. As I said before, I like the discussion because it's revealing things, but I'm really worried about what it is to reveal. What is she finding out? It has been quoted in the UN, and it turns out that the review is that ASI suggests that the proposals of a project management are respected at any given time. Is it so that we need to read each of the references in order to find out exactly what is behind what has been told us? [[Up front.]] Is that so? Then I feel that I have every reason to stop this meeting because that means that we are. Councilmen need to read reviews, as this issue has not been handled correctly. That means we all need to read this. Then this debate is natural on a little strange footprint.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u260	Mr. President. I'd like to reiterate my wish and others. Councilmen that this assembly meeting will not be continued until the highest level. Environment and resource minister has arrived. Then I want to ask the highest. The president whether he agrees that there is reason to be concerned about the attitude that the movers show here on the spirit of law on the framework and spirit of the work they went to try to make peace with the nation's resources. Here we go. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson, who says: "You just have to accept that the greater part is in charge. Has the highest. Don't the president worry about this attitude and the emphasis that has come on the frame plan?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u261	A respectable president. One of the most common questions asked by the media is what was most surprising to me when I attended a council. I always answer them on the way that I didn't have any particular opinion of what it would be like to be here, but after two years I'll have to say that what surprises me is how unscrupulous nonsense can become here, how presumptuous she can be. To say that, I feel that it is worth considering a word at the same time. paritaprevir Jóhann Pálsson's son Paul's when he spoke of the importance of more things. It is now two years into a four-year term, and the election struggle was on the grounds of what she was dependent on, a debt collapse, and the similarities that we might be discussing right now. At the same time, government support has greatly diminished. That's what I think to tell us. It takes other ways to settle differences than the traditional system we live in, whether it's at the Council, elections, or whatever. You need more resources to treat this process with democracy. We can't always be stuck here at the end of the council because we haven't agreed to build a better system. [[The president calls.]] Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u262	V.E.G. President. We're here to discuss a meeting manager's proposal to come up with a resolution to the application of a contingency program for the protection and energy use of land areas. A respectful president has decreed that the matter is available to be taken on the program. Hv. stand against that, and repeatedly the end of a meeting board is over. What I find unappreciated is to say it here to the highest. Environment Minister avoids the discussion. On the contrary, she has come here and shared in the discussion. She came to film the night before last, and they had her wait three hours to get to and talk to her. ... anticoagulation. [[Up front.]] To be calling for her here and talking about her not participating in this discussion, I don't like it. [[She's supposed to be here.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u263	Oh, that's not good, is
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u265	The President now kindly asks why. Councilmen giving out. The speakers came to an end, and they still want to draw attention to the fact that there has been a considerable amount of space to address their viewpoints, including the following: Under this program for the President's conference board.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u266	V.E.G. President. I really wanted this to end. This isn't very fun, but maybe it's necessary. People have come up here and talked about ASI's opinion since 2002, and they think now and project management and anything but I don't think there's much talk about people living on the riverbed. We received a letter from 38 farmers who live on the banks of Dura, who only want to live in peace with their land and cultivate it, but for the past 10 to 15 years, we have no doubt as to what to do there. It's got to do with all the management plans and all of these people. I think it's a good thing. These people live there, this is their home, and we're just going to run them over on their dirty shoes and activate them. What for? Where to take the power, huh? Senators? Where are you going to take it? Out of the district, like always? Are you going to start building up jobs in this area with that electricity? No, it should be taken to Murmansk Scandinavia, as one good man called the Hagland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u267	A respectable president. You're always in the same place when you come here for the puzzle. Nothing's happened since last time. [[Foreground on: No.]] It is the same words, the same stories; a new tie, and a new suit perhaps. I'd like to quote from Líndal, who's in Project Management on Framework. She had a special opinion that says, by permission of the president: The available data supported what was available, but there was sufficient evidence that three of the benefits of the Þjórður entered a novelty and counter-requisite activities of land activation were trustworthy and good. The program 2 had been arranged, so the project in frame 3 was just to add information that benefited and the easier it was to make a decision. She further says: ▪ I, Elín Líndal, as the only salmon farmer in this group is merely that counterweight action has been deemed trustworthy. [[Up front.]] So she says: In a political sense, the cost was changed. [[The president calls.]] It's so simple, and you're still arguing about it. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u268	Mr. President. At the beginning of a council meeting, a case was presented in the highest court. Prime Minister that an agreement has been made that Hag-water activation would be retracted from the existing suggestions, i.e. The changes have been made to the adjustment proposal that has already occurred. A professional health committee. That also said the highest. Minister of the environment back here. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if there's a formal proposal for this. As I mentioned earlier in a discussion about the President's conference board, we are in a second discussion on this matter, and it must matter if there are any adjustments in the adjustment proposals, as we must have to agree with that when we discuss the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u269	Hear, hear!
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u270	That alone, if this is not presented, is a powerful reason why we are postponing this discussion now and wait for the formal proposal to be made. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u271	A respectable president. We are in the second session, the last discussion of the Environment Minister's Reconsistencies Act on bringing one activation, lower category of employment wounds, a waiting party to join the colony. That was the subject of the council arrangement, and that's what we should be discussing, isn't it? But for some reason, in this final talk, we are talking about something completely different. We're talking about moving in addition to Inhimm activations no less than four other treatments for waiting for use, just like that. I would like to agree at the beginning of this discussion with what was presented in the case. paritaprevir For example, the Steinunn Árnadóttir Adjod, of course, is that we are suddenly discussing something other than the Senate arrangement and, secondly, an adjustment made by a greater part of the professional committee, which has four other advantages. Now I think we've been discussing yet another adjustment, but it's not yet made, but here's been mementos for taking Lake Hagah out, and that's a third suggestion. Of course, what we talk about needs to be clear - isn't it? - Because after this discussion, we have a vote, and it can't be out of the question what we should be discussing. But last, and at least when these dots here were written down that I'm going to support myself, the plan was from the bottom. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son is throwing in like this along the way Uryrofos activation and Holt reactivation, Hagra water activation, and keratotic activation. It has been reported that the evaluation of the Justice Department of Environment and Resources is still missing and cannot be done, at least Still for a time, and if people want to abide by law, they don't evaluate Hag Lake or Gangga, whether these fortresses can be dislocated in either protection or activation. This is in place and is considered by the Environment and Resource Ministry. And this too was the conclusion of former environmental minister, for he suggested, of course, no other choice but whale - healing. A greater proportion of the employment committee decides to interpret things and reality somehow differently, as we have seen, the current highest level. Environment Minister. I'm kind of going to have to suggest that these parties, the highest. Environment Minister Sigrún Magnúsdóttir and the senators who make the adjustment - I know this is complicated for people who sit at home and listen to this and are trying to monitor, I don't even think it's clear, this isn't a very transparent debate - I suggest that the current environmental minister discuss with the former environmental secretary and his associate, the Sigurður of Ingi Jóhannsson, as well as more part of the professional committees, are members of the same group, and these people may be able to get on the same page. I could believe Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson. Marine and agricultural ministers, could share their wisdom or share the results he obtained in his seminary, along with his staff and the attorneys at the Ministry for the reasons that only Involved was introduced into the original Congress resolution laid before the council. You see, it's like that, and I believe that the bottom line is the bottom line. The former environmental minister Sigurður Ingi son of Jóhannsson came to exist because he saw the law of No. 48/2011, about a protection and energy efficiency programme, a frame plan, a review process, they do so. And in the process of relating to the rock - mass, comments were made that were taken into consideration. That's why Scorpio was suspended, but not in a reservation, Mr. President, it was suspended, that activation, because it was said that the activation was close, in the face of a Lake Bayfield park. There were legitimate comments that had not been made before, and then a minister under the law must take this into account. This was done in the days of the former government. I think it's important to go through this so that we're on the same page, because I think there's not only men in this room but probably also those at home who are quite confused about how people interpret the framework and make the previous government and the one who is now sitting in different ways. I think it's a good thing to sort out a little bit of this mess. Economic water activation, so that we're taking it next, has not undergone the legal process of a frame-making principle, is very clear and perhaps even clearer than that of Archipelago, but as far as I was concerned about the affairs of the Archocese, it is also clear. But this does not seem to mean much to the head of a professional committee and to his followers. The Chairman has just said, "Fuck this, fuck this professional process that project management and experts of her subgroups are supposed to be working on. " You know, me and the boys are just gonna make it for ourselves, because there's so much to work on. It's been a little tone, Mr. President. Now we're just going to go through with it. A respectable president. I've been sitting around all these meetings with a lot of the job committees. I have attended a meeting where a professional committee or a major part has put themselves in the position to say, "Hey, we're taking the job, although we have no legal right to do so. There are laws against other things. It's project management for a frame plan to do this. With all due respect, Mr. President, for all of us on this committee, I think these are good people, we're all fine in part, but we're not on the job committee as these experts, we just don't do it, and I think we should be humble about it. We are there as senators, but not as geologists or other professional experts who will be selected into a professional committee and can assess environmental impacts, economic impacts, and other such from the ◯parameters defined in these laws. Only on Hague Lake, it's a little clear how this is going to happen or how the job is not taking place, when we are on a job committee discussing Hagwater activation that hasn't gone through once a frame 2 and there's a lot of research and data available. Then we will not just sit on the Generals' committee stage and say, " Yes, let's go through these geological images or what they are. ' It would be nice if we had at least tried, but it wasn't. I'm going to go easy on what's going on. People hold back hope that a sandflake can be reduced by moving up into the lagoon's original riverbed, and that it would never be possible. I'd like to state that I'm from this outfit. I'm a member of the Union of Aarnes County. I'm from Bishops and Lake Hagah just above, and I know that politicians have long spoken for setting up the Hagag Sea, and politicians like me should probably benefit from trying to lure voters by saying, "I'm gonna give you Lake Hag. But I can't do things that way without promising them that enough research has been done on Hag Sea so that we can be sure that sandflakes are reduced, that the trajectory or this trace of activation really has a positive effect. I'm not going to promise my sleeve because it's not yet been demonstrated. But I would like to have more research done or really done something so that we can answer these questions for the bishops and for the entire nation. But we have not even come to that place. It has said of Hague Lake that stable lagoons are good for the region, not for the metropolitan. Her representatives have said: "It is not enough for activation. ' We need to consider that in this new strategy under Lake Hags, a five - foot [5 m] surface swing means that at a certain time of the year, water in Hague Lake drops by 5 meters, and the accelerator that comes from the glacier sits behind, and where does it go? Yes, there are speculations about this, and in any case, land transplants say that there is no guarantee in it, and there is a concern that this money can cross all the countryside below. I want us to pay attention, that's all I ask. It is irresponsible to promise people something that we do not know enough about. A respectable president. I'd like to review a little environmental minister, Sigrún Magnúsdóttir, about how to keep up with the changes in the workforce more than I would like to take out Hagwater activation, if I get it right, it's something that's just been taken in by today's mouth and it's not officially available. It'd be nice to have the highest. Minister of the hall because I think this seminar is very important, here we are trying to figure out important matters, and that's what we do by talking to and it's been going very well. It's bad to have her not to go through these things together, because as soon as Hag-water activation is taken out, it didn't go through the professional evaluations of the project management of a structured program, as I understood it from the Minister, what about the Tank? Well, I went through the past, but it's not based on any professional process that can be taken back, because it went through a story story story story, and there was a concern about the presence of a Lake Earth park. We have not refuted those comments, the project management has not yet done so. Is it not to be taken into consideration, it doesn't matter? This option is still waiting, and there must be some food before the activation. V.E.G. The Environment Minister also spoke against it, if I understood it correctly, that the task programme concluded the operations of the lower tributary, which says Urrassing activation and Holta activation, by accepting the change in minus Haga Lake, it is automatically saying: No, there is no need to look at any more of this activation in the lower deck. Then she is speaking against her own words that appeared on television on the night of January 22 of last year. There was Sigrún Magnúsdóttir, the highest. Minister, that the normal procedure was that the project management would handle a frame plan, that would be the usual procedure. But now all of a sudden, do not stick to it. It would be natural for this task management to receive, so I witness to the minister's words, the priming option for discussion, and it would be important to have many benefits under the fact that it would be better to include them in a novelty party, a waiting party, or a protection party. A respectable president. I think it's important for the discussion if we're going to ask her something to briefly review the aims of a law on protection and energy efficiency, the goals of the laws we're considering, No. 48/2011, for their goals are very clear. It should ensure that the implementation of land areas for activation is based on long-term trends and the overall basis of interest assessments taking into account the protection of nature and cultural memory, efficiency and profiteability of different innovations. I think it's a little obvious, or I think it's drawing up to the good people with whom we're currently in charge, just doesn't like this arrangement at all, because they don't expect this kind of hand management, so to speak. This has been observed several times here in a pita. The head of the professional road committee tells us that he has to make a decision, that professional work is impossible, and that he and others in the greater part of the employment committee are suitable and better at taking the job. It may well be wrong for them to do so. Congress officials believe they are authorized to do so, but they must do so under cover of a frame plan, because laws about a frame plan do not assume this. If you don't, you just have to say it right now: I'm just gonna figure it out. All right, let's talk about it. That would be much more honest. There are undoubtedly some who would just like it, some who want more of the fortresses, more industry, feel that there's nothing wrong with lines over the central highland, but there's also a big part of the nation that doesn't want it at all. I don't want this at all, and I'm here at the council to protect that interest, and I will. But both of these groups, activation experts and those who want to follow this professional process deserve to be spoken to like people, not so foamy, that we say, "Hey, more part of the professional committee is just saying, "We want to control it, we want to do it, we don't want to do it. ' It's just a lot more honest. The conclusion of a frame plan is to some extent a compromise proposal. The decision for activation or protection is made on the basis of data and trade aluminium. There's some kind of misunderstanding going on, I think, that the conclusion is just for natureists. They have repeatedly dropped the bag in regard to a frame plan, but this is a compromise. We've talked about flamethrowers, and I've pointed out with Hamp's activation that there are people who live on the riverbed and in the Valley of Snow who don't want to see that activation. It'll probably be reduced if this goes through. I think the discussion is so people are going to respect the process on one side, it's natureists, and those who want to follow the rules of a frame plan, but the others are just going to draw the line further. It's not like it's a 'game, it's not a fair game. I'd like to inform you here that I think Iceland has to be activated more in the future, but I don't just want to activate it. I want to be balanced with nature and efficiency, and I don't want to activate for cheap prices. First, I want to make better use of the continuum transfunctioners and I'd like to check the size of the existing ones. [[The president calls.]] And I don't want to pull off the basic Icelandic roads, which are tourism. How can you say that you want to get your professional bike started and then plan to pull off your shoulder?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u272	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for his good speech and enlightenment. During the last days, it has been observed that many in a large part of the employment committee seem to have enough data. In fact, there is a problem with quoting old data rather than the evidence that has been received by the committee in this cycle. I want to hear the senator's position on this. True, there have been a number of references, but does it not claim that there are references to suggestions that come in by hook lines and not according to the legal process of a frame plan?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u273	A respectable president. There goes a boy. A senator with a straight head. In fact, we should not be discussing whether someone wants to activate in the lower part of the River wound or what. It's been called on, and it's been called on to the memory of the part that we're following the laws of the land that we've been given. I believe it is my duty as a senator, a holy duty, to do so. But with this treatment, which is very vague and fluctuating and took last time this morning a slight twist, it is not clear what is happening. I have to say, I don't feel that I'm such a flubber in crafts to increase the respect of the Generals. It's an opacity, and it smells special. You ask yourself, " What's the rush? '
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u274	V.E.G. President. A few years ago, a Ph.D. report was published at the site of the falls. The story is covered in debates about the energy efficiency of Icelandic falling water. It's a long story, and there's been a lot of conflict. A Ramma program designed for the past 15◯20 years was the means of creating a game rules for decision-making on possible activations and protection. The issues here are continued by the controversy that have taken place through history in Icelandic society. Does the senator agree that the controversy is so intense now that it is actually detracting from the system created to try to get things done? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u275	A respectable president. I certainly agree. Senator. Of course, it is being fought here that a good and beneficial process, with which all the members of the council were elected, each member of Congress, is cut off. We want this to mean something. And don't back it up, saying it's something other than it really is. If you're going to activate and wield a hand, and you deal with this, you can do it, but they have to do it in their own name, not in the name of a frame plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u276	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech is excellent. It's still a little unclear what the attitude is. The senator is available for these specific activations, i.e. Impulse activation, particularly since it has been through a process, but also with the other inducers; Holster activation, for example, is up to 53 megawatts, Uryrrafós of 130 megawatts if I understand correctly. I agree with him that the whole process is in the middle of nowhere. But I wondered, " If a decision would come, which would be based entirely on the second pass of a frame plan, what would be the course? ' The senator to the men who are suggested in this transition?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u277	A respectable president. There is a fact that in frame 3 data were developed, which was not available in frame 2 and I am designed to find it better to make informed decisions than not so that I would always aim for it. It's not good to go back and say, with frame 2, how things would have been if I had known less. I don't know why you should want to. But I am guided by the decision given by the task management board and by the recommendation of a minister. I believe in the process. I've seen for myself how a project management works. I think it's a professional process. I think it's honest, and I believe it. I believe the project management exists for that town, and this creation is designed like that, being able to give us the best results.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u278	A respectable president. Making informed decisions is an honorable attitude, of course, an important baseline value. I wondered, though, if this suggestion was to be carried out, how we would proceed with a frame plan, and I wish for everyone's attitude on the matter. If the current board of directors believes that during the first terms the reconciliation has been broken and the smaller part here feels that the reconciliation is broken by the majority of the action, then I wonder what is left of the frame plan. How do we view the road ahead? How can we handle this group in a way that is different from that of large disagreements with each step, with every talk about every item. That's what I'm most concerned about in my own life. Sounds the same to me, though. Senator. But I only ask because I don't know. How can we look forward? If this is to work, if this is to be done, what will we do next?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u279	A respectable president. I appreciate the question. I wondered about that, too. I don't know what place we're in if we're going to shun a frame plan, as the modified part suggests. Then I'm pretty afraid we've thrown the device out, and we've done it by then. I want them to know that there will be politicians in this pit, with their share behind them, or with their people who sit here all day long and late at night, pushing against the activation or protection that they want. That's how it's gonna be. I think it sucks. That's why you resist. You need to be very clear that you are being pushed over because you are destroying a good tool, a professional tool that we can be so proud of. You don't always like the results, either nature protection or activation experts, but there's compromises. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u280	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech is excellent. As a matter of fact, I'm a little surprised, I thought she'd be more positive for the activations where she's so in favor of a cable. But I'd like to ask you why. Senator on the value of frame 2 is whether it is only to be published. Whether it is in force anymore because frame 3, despite the fact that only eight options were considered in frame 3 but the task management describes that it does not have time or money to complete all these eight benefits. Then let me ask you what. A senator: How does her understanding of this apply to some of these advantages still in force in frame 2 and others in frame 3?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u281	A respectable president. Once again, I don't think we're always talking about the same thing. But the seminar is good, the discussion is good. In frame 3 it was supposed to be all checked, but it was only the eight activation options at the highest. Minister of the dog. A member of the council asked to be examined specifically. It's true that a senator would think that I'd like to look at a cable that's going to be more specific. This does not necessarily involve more active acts. There are about two of the co-educational workers that are corrupted online today according to the director of the Land Action Programme because we use the energy as bad as our national network. A cable may be one of the ways to use this activation, it needs to be examined, and we need to sell our energy at a much higher price than we do right now. I'm all for the nation's receiving more from this resource. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u282	A respectable president. I was not given a complete answer to whether a frame 2 was still in force in part or not at all. But I'd like to quote only a memo from the Department of Environment and Resources that is very much quoted: In view of the Ministry's opinion, the Council, taking into account the law of No. 48/2011, a adjustment in the classification of the activation initiatives proposed, as the benefits have been obtained by project management in accordance with the laws of the law. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agreed that if these advantages have been legally arranged, the council may make adjustments in order?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u283	A respectable president. It's nice to have a good time. A senator has recorded this memo. I think it's the same memo - he should have read it a little further, already in a 3mg. This magazine tells you: ... thatthe programme of protection and innovation will take place in the implementation of initiatives discussed by the Project Management Board. As compared with the fact that the Council does not take sides with other activation options other than the ones discussed by the Project Management Board. This does not mean that the Allied Council is bound by the proposals of project management or Minister for the classification of activation initiatives, but only by law No. 48/2011, including a professional assessment of activation options and geographical areas, That's not in the way. There is no such thing as a change. A senator's instructions. It's just that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u284	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Björt of Ólafsdóttir daughter for an excellent speech. When we discuss these matters in a material discussion, we will move closer to the same page. Hv. A senator was quite clear in his speech and is regarded as a secondary part of the employment committee with a contraband proposal. I agree with what. A senator on the value of frames and in the opinion of more things says on page 24. 3 That the more part is on the ground, agree with the procedure on which the law is based. I think most of us agree on that. However, I would like to go beyond the box in full meaning and ask why. Because she has received all the numerous visitors who have expressed themselves in progress. Some mention: What benefits are available to her in use?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u285	A respectable president. That's right, that's what happened. A senator, that in the majority opinion, they agree with the lesser part of the foundation. But then something's going to come out there, something like that, right? Anything waiting to be? And then you don't even exist in the stock plan. With the activation options I see, I can't evaluate all available options. In our consideration, we've only been discussing these five. But I think it is obvious, most clearly, at least, that whale activation, which has just been taken care of by step 3, is the closest thing to being called activism. Yet there is still a debate over whether the salmon stock, or salmon fish, will survive there, but I would like more research on it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u286	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Björt Ólafurs Ólafsdóttir for the answer. It is clear in its stand and feels that the initial eulogy proposal for the Impulsive Impulsion procedure is the product of innovation. I agree with what. A senator on the value of research and informed decision making regarding activations, that's where we're on the same page. But because I know what to do. A senator came into her speech that she knew of the circumstances of the Arjarsk's camp, and knowing this area very well, I'd like to ask her about the ideas of applying Hag Sea, what she would rather say about those ideas.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u287	A respectable president. I'm raised below Lake Hags, and I remember a sandstorm in the middle of a haystack, practically a mud hole. However, this has only ended in recent years. There are no more those sandstorms that were growing up in my hot summer days in June, July, August. It gives us reason to wonder if the soil or the mud has just gone and if there's more money, and all of this will start again if we grow the floor. I can't measure it. These are geologists, astronomers, and others who have to do this for us generals. I think it's very dangerous that we allow ourselves to put ourselves in these steps without any professional ability to do so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u288	A respectable president. It's 7:00 and it's Friday night. I wondered what the president thinks about the progress of the meeting, and again I ask what is being heard about the environmental secretary, whether he has been notified, and whether she has any explanation for her absence in today's discussion. It would be very interesting to know if that was so. I don't think it really bothers me that the minister of the seminar is not present at the moment of such a heated and controversial matter and especially when the management of the situation is characterized by the remnant layer we see here, the minister must be a part of the arguments that have taken place. I want to know that the highest. The president will make us senators aware of the situation of that case, i.e. The wish to the highest. Minister here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u289	Mr. President. I must agree with that wish to the highest. A minister will be there for the discussion, as I told you earlier. If this is her most urgent issue and she burns for survival, it is only natural for her to be involved and share in the discussion with us. It seems to me that tonight's conversation doesn't end, I think it's perfectly obvious. If this matter is taken back on the Tuesday after lunch, I wonder if it would have to specifically request it again, again, to the highest level. The minister will be there for the discussion. Is that not a problem? I think so, and I don't think top priority. Ministers, come up here, hang something up, and let's do it. It's not the reasoning we have in the government or the highest. Prime Minister and his codfish are asking for. There is no reasoning if half of the team and those in charge do not want to participate.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u290	A respectable president. It's all the strangest thing. First, it comes in with the decision to push in four new priming options between discussions of a Congress resolution proposal for a single activation. All right. Then, in addition to that, today is the highest. Environment Minister and get to enter a rosary, and informs us that the change in the proposal for the original proposal should now be made at some point under this subsequent discussion, which we do not know when it is. That proposal has not come out formally, but it has yet been told about it. It is as if a person does not realize that we are in the final talk on the matter and next on a program is just a vote. How many discussions do people think this is? People talk as if they could play with it, make changes here and there, according to everything. [[The president calls.]] It's not like that. That's why we insist they come here and listen to our speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u291	Mr. President. It is likely now more than an hour ago that we asked for the highest power. The secretary of the environment would be notified that we wanted her here during the discussion, and she's not here yet. We also made our highest request. The prime minister who called himself to reason on this matter earlier today would be informed that we wanted him here during our discussion. He's not here either. So I want to direct it back to a respectable president and ask him if he's the highest. counsellors have been notified that we wanted them in our discussion. I also asked more than an hour ago if a formal adjustment proposal to make the adjustment had been made. Besides, I haven't had any answers, and I reiterate my questions to the highest. President. Has the counsellors been notified, and has a formalized adjustment proposed?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u292	A respectable president. It now describes the most rationale. The prime minister and the majority of the Committee are having to try to argue that the European Union of Iceland supports these conflicting suggestions when it is written by the UN that it does not. The other, in turn, describes the difficult situation to the extreme. Environment Minister is afraid to be at the discussion. You have to ask, chief. The president, in the absence of our repeated requests for the minister to be here, has the highest. The secretary of the environment is dead? Is the reason why Sigrún Magnúsdóttir is not in the councilroom that she has come to realize the tremendous distrust that has been described in her case by her associates and her chairman, and by the government, by choosing here over the proposals of the Environment Minister, to go far beyond the secretary's count and her guardian of the same category by going directly against the legal opinion of the Ministry of Congress? Is there an environmental minister in the country, or hafa Sigrún Magnún told of himself? [[The president calls.]] Is that why she's not here?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u293	A respectable president. Is there any hope of being asked? Where's the Minister? Is the land no environmental minister? The question is, at least it is not a national environmental minister who cares for the environment. She's thinking about something else, that's clear. It has been said earlier today that the matter is neglected. It is so ill prepared that it is unacceptable to have it discussed here in the second discussion. Worse yet, those who are supposed to know and sit on a professional committee and have spoken up, the candidates, and I especially witness to them, are being wrong. Prime Minister is wrong. They take the context of a comment in the committee's opinion. Some of us in this room don't know this team for a team, and we heard it before. þm. Björt how important it is that those on the committees explain right from here in the conference room but do not have exits and almost falses. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u294	V.E.G. President. I come up here one more trip to describe the support of those in the government opposition who have spoken here about breaking up this meeting and trying to make peace with them because it's obvious that this is not about to solve. It is, in fact, incredibly sad that we have to stand here today in front of the international nation and be in this character, something the Icelandic people really don't need at all. I've been very diligent here in speaking and speaking, encouraging the government to communicate with all kinds of community organizations in an effort to establish peace. We are a small community, and we really need to be at peace here and make peace in the community. The community is on fire, and the welfare system is on its way. And we're spending whole days discussing some frame proposals that no need is needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u295	Given the cause, the President wants to announce a message has been received at the highest level. Environment Ministers, as well as the fact that formal adjustments have not been made.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u296	Mr. President. I've come up here and complimented these discussions because I consider it our role here in reasoning. And though there are not many, there are, though some, of course, came up here and answered by reason of it. The members of the greater part, however, feel that the argument is getting closer to the truth and many things that have been evident today in this discussion that sheds light on the subject. For instance, instead of quoting actual comments about the matter and other matters, some of the years are quoting their case in support of the matter, but the problem is that I don't feel that our reasoning is being heard. It's a bit like when a man I know always uses the Osteoarthritis on TV when the people he doesn't think they agree on a case because he's not going to listen to them. This is what he would like to say about a man or a woman: He or she was the best. True, I didn't hear anything the others said. I wonder what. The members of the greater part are a little bit useful to the ◯mute-keet thing, in both technical and spiritual terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u297	A respectable president. I must declare that I am really upset. We've done a lot of work to go through a frame plan, to go through these changes, to listen to people who come to us, and to swerve this case. The result is coming out. We're here to see that the situation is extremely faulty and I feel very boring, so it's not even said that anyone is here to talk to you about it, that it just means more than nothing. Aren't we here to let the discussion bring us something? I'm not here to let the government get home to the barbecue. If you don't want to hear this, you should have stopped a meeting by. Five. But this is just silly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u298	V.E.G. President. On May 16, 2011, the members of each body of Parliament adopted a law on the protection and energy efficiency of the programme. The law set up a comprehensive set of legislation on the use of water sources and the implementation of the provision of the programme to the administration of organizational measures and granting public permits, including research, innovation and activation protocols. This is the Law on Framework, and I allow myself to argue that this is one of the most important legislation established in the country in the past, because with these laws it was aimed at creating a basis for continuing work on the evaluation and grouping of activation options. And not only that, but it was an attempt to get issues that have caused much controversy in the country, in a rational way, so that we would handle the situation, because no one expected us to agree on every point, on some intelligent basis, to build up a career that would guarantee it. Despite the fact that these laws came in the spring of 2011, there had been a number of factors that the law once included. Thus, there had been active project management on protection and energy efficiency. One such project manager had been active in 1999 constituted 2003, and in the first months of 2013, there was still a new project management. These cases have a long history. It is possible to go far back, but in April 1989, the Allied Council adopted a synod from the Hjörleifur of Guttormsson, then wind. Senator. The agreed resolution and the finally agreed resolution are as follows: The Council concludes to hide the government to have the Council of Nature prepared in collaboration with the energy authorities for the protection of rivers and geologic areas, falls, and which. They say that such a plan will be submitted to the Council for the presentation by the end of 1990 and the tomorrow plan will be established. I would like to quote a paper that followed this council resolution because it contains the thought that is behind the Law on the Framework. It says, by permission of the President: It was concluded that in the early preparation of energy workers, environmental impacts need to be determined immediately and that work must be rushed to review priorities based on environmental and natural protection. The Council of Nature has already carried out much work and data to classify rivers and waterfalls, geologic areas, as well as wetlands and other greenhouse gases in the highlands that could be exposed to water sources. - And here's a reference to the enclosed documents. By permission of the president, I continue to read and quote a paper on the Senate resolution from April 24, 1989: Since 1972, the developer plan and the environmental impacts they would have in the event of their implementation have been discussed by the Council of Nature and the Ministry of Industrial Affairs. However, this has not been a complete assessment for use and protection. - It's all about food. The proposal assumes that natural protection agencies have a preemptive strategy to agree with energy authorities. Is it normal for this to happen on the scene of the Conference Committee? The General then discussed and confirmed the plan, thus providing significant guidance on long - term research and implementation. By such a process, it would be safe to ensure that funding for research in energy efficiency is not being protected in areas where there is a desire to preserve as deep as the natural eye and also less likely to be a conflict of interest and easy to deal with. In this connection, we can refer to the experience of the Norwegian people, in which the Norwegian Council has peacefully declared a number of water rivers, part of which is a limited period of time. There was another factor in the presentation of the proposal from that time, the Hjörleifur of Hjoreus Guttormsson, which then became a sort of red thread in his case on this case at the Council of II. He wanted it to be covered in the long term by electricity production in the country, that we realized how much electricity we wanted to produce. He suggested, among other things, 1997, and I return to Hjörleifur Guttormsson, in which he begins these matters. At that time, 1997, the total electricity consumption in the country was less than 5.5 terava hours per year, and the energy forecasting committees assumed that the total energy use of citizens in 2025 would be 9.4 teravan in total industrial use. Today, 14 years later - and this is written in 2012 - however, energy is produced near 17 terava hours and has grown by more than 11 terawatts, mainly because of increasing sales for industry. This clearly shows the results of having an open house - and I am here quoting from Hjörleifur Guttormsson's case - for a electrical exchange for energy efficient industry. I further quote him, by permission of the President: I assumed that hydropower and geothermal electricity would not exceed 30 terava hours a year in terms of domestic energy being fully replaced by exported fossil fuels. - All right, listen to me. Full of it. This is the natural future that we need to keep in mind when discussing the use of our electricity. He goes on, with President's permission: It is estimated that the current ideas of national energy companies on the increase in electricity production are much higher than those limits, e.g. In order to improve the production of 11 tervasive hours from new activations, national activation alone will be planned over the next 15 years. It's got me, the highest. President, this discussion is often missing. What are our goals regarding production, and how far are we going to go? We watch individual activations, but it might be that my judgment could be discussed more fully with us about the goals we set for ourselves. How far are we going? Will we fully replace imported fossil fuels, e.g. to drive our fishing fleet? Are we going to try this? And what are we going to do with our energy and energy? They need to integrate the discussion on these subjects on the priming option. Since then, it has been reviewed in this discussion of what happened when the law was given in its time, in the spring of 2011, and then a new project management in the first months of 2013. The 2011 provisional regulations set out that the results of the then-active task management should follow a narrative process, based on the reports received of the specific activations that were taken from a colony and returned to a waiting party. This is not comparable to what is going on now, to my judgment, when results from the project management are not available, coverage is not completed, but the law is to conclude a discussion before the case of the Generals. Of this, people have been arguing and making a note here about the President's conference board for a long time; we believe in the government stand that this is not a law in the strict sense, not at all. It is not unusual for a person to record it when discussing the President's conference board. And then today, as we know, in the middle of the second discussion of this synonym proposal, the highest standards are made. The prime minister sees a sound and says that one of the advantages, one of the suggestions, has been decided to withdraw. Of course, it would have been reasonable to stop the discussion, call the committee for a meeting, and discuss the matter there before the discussion would be over. So it's a procedure that is not surprising that people keep silent about here at a council, in the past for President's conference board, and severely critical. Then it is noted that although we have found this process that we want to become the most professional and the most careful to review priming options, the final authority to determine is in this institution, at the General Assembly. We are not entirely confined to these activities, but when we discuss the matter and make decisions, we do so on the basis of calmness, we do so on the basis of a professional estimate, and we make informed decisions about the matter. And, of course, everyone realizes that when matters have gone through such a process, they are very hard at heart against such decisions. But it sometimes has to happen, of course. We would never agree on an unpublished check and take it as an immediate task management; I would never be ready to pass, no matter where it came from, although I feel very likely after the process that you would accept the results. A guide in the Morning newspaper was written a few days ago, where a guide asked whether the individuals involved here knew the bacteria we were discussing. Scorpiotic activation, what do they know well about "Coronary daisies"? I don't, but I know that there are many in the hall who do, have stepped into these matters, and are thoroughly familiar with the case, and have doubts about it. However, there is one other activation that might be cited, Involvement of the Þjórjórð, which is handled by a positive projector. I'm against her, I'd vote against her. I wonder--if it's going to follow what we're going to see here, to the management sector take a frame plan, this great law, and make it almost nothing -- whether we should go all the way and just talk about individual activations. If so, I would like to spend my time in the case of Aggressive Invasion and Thugga. And who knows that the time is coming when we should take these matters and individual fortresses and take them to our national hearings? Why? To present to the people Uryrofos, to present the nation's daisies to the people, Lake Hagah. Perhaps all the people need to be better versed in these matters - and have a better chance to do so than in a national law? I don't think so. We're here talking about some very dramatic decisions, and I've found a lot of people talking about the results of a project management, for example. for Impulse reactivation, of unpleasant intensity. How many have gone up after the Þjórður, and in effect, consider what will happen when the land would be besieged there? I already have. But the same legislature, prepared to fine men who drive out of roadways, are ready to allow the inaccessible resources of large - working machinery into the natural world and thus avoid being turned back, that's what's happening. That's why I say that in this process there are some contradictions. On the one hand, I am thinking that I am one of the most outstanding legislations in the second period, the code-making legislation; I think it's merriment because it helps us make informed decisions where it has been examined from all sides, or as most people, and the reasoning clearly developed so that we can examine them. However, I'm saying that in these decisions, mental factors - what I think is beautiful but possibly not you or you - that no project administration or professional committee can finally end because it is thoughtful. We like Gold Falls, do we, Kappos? It's no big deal, even said the Environment Minister on the Meriadlands, it's not so pretty. Maybe she did. I don't doubt it. Others disagree, and this will always be the case, of course. We will never find the ultimate solution. But we find the process and process that helps us to reach a conclusion based on information. The sadness of this discussion now and the process of taking this matter through is that it is being taken into account in that process. That's why men come here to say goodbye to President's conference board, that's perfectly normal. How sad it is, though, when representatives of the administrative body are sitting here with their spoon clocks and number clocks, and see how often a person came up, how long it is! This is a measure of how much people are offended by these reactions. So now it is that when we are under attack for changes that affect our environment and nature, it takes a little into our heart and soul for many of us, that's what it does. And there's something to respect. It is the administrative body here at the General Assembly, and the government of this country is to be respected, that we want to be treated fairly, as well as with respect for our country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u299	A respectable president. I thank the senators for their extensive talk, which actually included many features. First of all, she just came in on the story, and then I might want to add it. Hv. A senator says that this is one of the most important laws ever made, and then he reviews the story, how it was established. I think from the time these laws were passed and from the moment we discussed it -- well. A senator mentions a former senator, Hjörleifur Guttormsson - a group of people who had come to a senses about their ideas. I think that the attitudes of many of us and people in general have changed much more in this category, in nature and in the environment, than in many others in the past two to three decades or so. Then, the senator came in, which is informative too, contradicts the process of making, but in the end he says, " But I disagree with the Hagming Syndrome. ' That's totally justified because, in the end, we must be in politics to make decisions. It may seem that we are at odds with each other, but information is the key to making the decision to say: " I'm opposed to Haggis. After reviewing the details of the issues involved, each senator can come and report his own mental judgment: despite all this information, I don't want to do this. [[The president calls.]] This is something, isn't it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u300	V.E.G. President. You're absolutely right. First, I completely agree with what. A senator's awareness of the importance of nature and nature talk is far different and much greater than it was some years ago, not to mention decades ago. This awareness was very limited. There were pioneers in this thought - Eysteinn Jónsson, for example, about a man of former times, and Hjörleifur Guttormsson, and many others - who have set us on fire to our knowledge and interest in these matters. Then there's the other, this objective and thoughtative thing, that's exactly right. When I say that I am opposed to Aggression, I can be looking at a variety of factors other than the task management has done and finally come to the conclusion. And I think the results of the project management are very likely to be on the run with the attitude of a lot of people, I think. On the other hand, I want to take a long walk in nature's protection and think very long into the future. I'm worried that we're going through too hard on nature. I also refer to this demand for energy, that we ask such fundamental questions, which I am not quite sure is sufficiently well within this discussion in the same way that our awareness of nature and natural damage was not before. Perhaps we still haven't made it to a place on our path that we've begun to look at these issues completely complete enough. [[The president calls.]] I don't think so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u301	President. Hv. A senator also noted that it may be best to make such decisions, which are highly environmental and, in most cases, irreversible in a national law. That's something to think about, because it's also part of the concept that our ideas have changed a bit. But isn't that the problem, and that's why national pay has to be paid, that much of it is over the smaller part of the council, won't allow a discussion? A lot comes in with a case that's not prepared and says, "It's good enough in your mouth. And we're just supposed to agree. We're in trouble about this, too. We need more direct democracy because most of the stuff here is going to go over the smaller part. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u302	President Hithv. It is always the purpose of our national law that we want to lead a difficult issue to the finish. I'd like to suggest whether or not we should be in NATO. Suppose there was a national agreement and a vast majority of the nation's population wanted to be in NATO. This does not mean that I had stopped fighting for Iceland's resignation from NATO, but at the same time I would respect the results. So you can resist the conclusion of a process you accept. It's what I'm talking about here, that we've been trying to build a process that makes it easier for us to make decisions than it is for us to deal with different viewpoints. That is why I feel that these laws are so remarkable and so sad when they are devastated. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u303	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The count of Jónasson's son for a very good speech. She's tantamount to what we're all thinking and wanting. - There's only one minute? - We want to do this in the right order and do this professionally. Perhaps that's what led us to realize that there is a need for professional work where everyone is looked at. I'm not necessarily against activation. In recent years, I've wondered how much we get for these continuum transfunctioners, what the corporations are giving to the Icelandic nation in direct interest. I think it's all right to look at all things based especially on what these inducers give us for our money. Hv. A senator mentioned that he would be opposed to the Impulsion. I share it with him, especially in the light of a member of the Parliament where the main role at the council is to protect the public good. We have received a letter, and I have mentioned it here many times today, from 38 farmers who live on the banks of blue wounds who are completely opposed to these plans. They want to cultivate their land and live on these earth. DV in January 2014, there was an interview with the crew in which Impulsion is due. The people were not informed of this. There has been no contact with one person that it should be done. They don't talk to the people. It's not a reference to anything. It's just going down there and doing this. There is also something else that is evident from those farmers. If these activations follow, there will be nearly 60% of the electricity production of water plants in this region. It's a very active volcano area. It came out in the winter when I visited the World Health Organization. If a baboon were to rise up, and all down the waters of the Red Sea, then what happens, then what will be?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u304	V.E.G. President. It is with interest and the future. We're supposed to think very long into the future. We are now looking forward to the development of the tourism industry and its gains as we weigh heavily in our national affairs. It is obvious, of course, that if we're tomblink all the waves of nature or toss them, we're also ruining our potential in these chemicals. I'm just putting this into context with interest. I remember seeing some journalists who had just come from a hurry - to - face in Skavegar. They had gone, I think, in both parts of it. They were journalists who specialized in tourism. When they were told that there was a plan to activate those years, they asked if humans had gone crazy or if we didn't realize what pearls we had. That's why I say now we need to breathe slowly. We're in no hurry. We're gonna stay here for the next thousand years. There's no hurry. This isn't running away from us. We must give careful consideration to where we are headed. We should not continue until we have reached our goal. How much do we need to destroy? How much do we have to make? Energy efficiency often involves some destruction. How much are we going to do? How much do we need? What do we want to do, and what do we want to do?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u305	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. I agree completely with him on this matter. We need to be careful. We need to look to the future. We are to return this land to our offspring as best we can. I'm wondering what he came in last time: how much do we have to activate? Today we're setting off 18,000 gigawatts - think 18 thousand gigawatts. But we can't provide a three - phase electricity in Skaftárpp. Well, think about it. Of these 18 thousand gigawatts, Icelandic homes and businesses use less than 4 thousand. Then they're surprised we think it's kind of crazy. It's probably nothing but kind of crazy because this doesn't give us what we're supposed to get for money from natural resources, if we're going to activate them on another level. This is the first thing we're supposed to do. People want to grow the cake. The cake doesn't have to be grown in Iceland. It just needs to be right.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u306	V.E.G. President. I'm not gonna have a long answer here. A senator. I deeply agree with him that the cookie can be divided in Iceland in another way, in a more righteous way, by energy efficiency and energy efficiency, or by our choice of choice. If they understood, they'd have contracts and all these quarrels would be solved tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u307	A respectable president. It's always nice to hear speeches. 8th yrs We're out of here. "They are very rich and good. Hv. A member of the U.S. U.S. Federal Republic of Nations, which I am always interested in when it comes to such intense issues that the Senate seems not prepared to deal well with. I have to say, personally, I'd like to avoid going to national pay because of every priming, because I don't think there's any demand for it in itself. I think there's a much more demand that there's some career as planned by a frame plan, which, of course, was a magnificent legislation and a spectacular political objective for such a major issue. The reason why I'm considering this is because if the council isn't qualified to deal with such issues, they need, in my opinion, to end in the nation, without exception, if the people insist on it themselves, I think that is fundamental. But suppose we would like to do this on a foundation that everyone can agree on, not always at peace, as well. A senator would not necessarily agree on what exactly to activate or activate over a head, if that is the case, but we must want a foundation that we can all work by. What I'm wondering is how we can, if these adjustments from the why. The job committee goes through and is approved, looks ahead, and what can we do next to try to regain some sort of agreement on the basic method we're going to use? I'm asking why. Because he was in the former government, a senator may be able to give us a clear view of where this process went wrong in view of what the requirements were when the law was set in 2011, what we could do, and how we could change it so that we could be concerned about everyone. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u308	V.E.G. President. I think me and what. A senator would agree on these subjects as well as on the national law. In fact, I'm not suggesting that every activation go to a national fee or any I may disagree with. There's got to be a much bigger food what to do. I was referring merely to the national pay, in the context of making us aware of the matter. It was actually the morning paper that raised me when he asked: "How many people do know The Devil? I had to admit it because I was sitting at the kitchen table at home and reading the guide that I didn't know her very well. On the other hand, I went to search for data and asked naturalists and scientists in the Crimea, and I know much more about it now. I watch what happens at a national hearing because people start looking. I was talking about it in the context of introducing people to the Cradle and the Urrass. How many have gone and examined Uryrafs, that beautiful waterfall in the lower part of the River River wound that is ready to be sacrificed, are they ready to be sacrificed? Would it not be worth the fact that the nation led their way to the Urnarfjords and examined the falls and knew what they were talking about? It's in that context I talked about this. But what happens? I think if this is going to be run through in this way, it will require a huge protest outside the council. We recently received a preview of the state's recent experience, and I think the nation is very alert that this will awaken many who are still sleeping from their sleep, and the rest who are fighting against these plans will be intensified.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u309	A respectable president. If someone hadn't told me so many years ago how often I was and what I was. A senator would agree at a council if I had probably not believed it. But I wholeheartedly agree with it. A senator was saying, and especially when it comes to national pay. What happens, and that's one of many reasons why I'm so fond of them personally, is that just when people get the authority of their own hands, it tends to look at them. I have to admit that I had not examined Uryrfós particularly until this case came up, and I am opposed to applying, after examining him. That's what it is, like a bang. A senator said, including the other continuum transfunctioners. What I'm wondering is, given that we don't want to go to national pay or anything, you would want such advice to be unnecessary, because we'd probably like to have some common foundation. Last term was the highest. Such a minister is criticized for not signing, and now the less critical part is more concerned with doing things this way. [[The president calls.]] I wondered, " What are these violations of this process that we could fix so that we can get it back on track? ' Now it looks like a train accident in terms of political reconciliation, even in terms of the method we will use when we look forward to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-15-107.u310	V.E.G. President. We talked about change of viewpoint to nature. I think there is a need for a change of attitude toward the council as well as the practices we enjoy here. We need to make adjustments, and all of us need to pay attention to changing our attitude toward the work that we are getting along with and that we must and should respect.
