ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-130.u1	V.E.G. President. The government or a smaller part of the Generals proposed to dismiss this case, and it is presented here as a reasoned program for such deduction. The government has strongly opposed this matter, believes that it is going to the holy right unions for strike operations, and that this includes a ban on non-redepair unions. The State puts a law there as another party into a dispute and challenges itself to negotiate the dispute. This situation is all very different, and it is very natural, and it is necessary for a person to make negotiations and to contribute more money to achieving and putting them away quickly rather than to perform in this way. I recommend this proposal, and I absolutely lie against the bill, recommend that it be dismissed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-130.u2	A respectable president. It is always difficult and difficult to lay laws on strikes. Nevertheless, the situation is very serious, as humans know, so it is the government's opinion that this matter must be addressed. Those here have voted against this, though some in this hall, passed in 2010 laws on a foretold strike, although some here in the hall. [[Top of the line: Not all of you.]] [[Up front.]] Today, those who say no to those laws in this vote are responsible for the continuation of the social situation after an 11 - week strike in BHM and between the two - to - three - week nurse strike. Those who say yes to this bill, which I encourage all members of Congress to cut the knot here, give the contracters the opportunity to work out a solution for the next two to three weeks, and then within a six - week sentence. [[The president calls.]] I will say yes and encourage other members of Congress to do the same.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-130.u3	President. The Pirata senators challenge the government and members of the greater part to dismiss this matter, but, of course, they will not accept it. I wish it had been possible to touch the changes the lesser part wishes because they'd make these unsounds a little less. But I challenge members of Congress--I know, of course, that there will be no one to meet that challenge, rather than the previous day with the greater portion, when you offer suggestions for reforming, but I hope that members of the greater part are aware of what they are doing here today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-130.u4	V.E.G. President. The left movement, the green offer, grieves for this smell. We think this bill is unjust, and we think it's unsatisfactory. However, I am convinced that these long struggles and the great sacrifices made by our fine health care professionals will have success in the end. I have promised all the things that will come to the end of this controversy, because it is not finished that it should do it. In spite of all of this, I rejoice with the declarations of the Generalist Commission, who were very important here at the end of the discussion on interpretation of how to handle the issue. We would have liked to get a clearer line into the lyrics of the Law and thus offer suggestions. But the statements made were more clear than the lyrics of the Law, open various doors, and I rejoice. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This must be considered a vital solution to further processing. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-130.u5	Mr. President. In the past month, the surgeon general has identified two aspects of the government. Another is that there is a crisis; safety cannot be guaranteed anymore. In these circumstances, the government has been living for a month. The other thing is, it has to be solved in one way or another. One way is to lay laws on strikes, but surgeons are clear; if this is to be stopped without a contract being concluded, it is not a long-term solution. Another way, of course, is that treaties can be seen - not in the manner of meeting all requirements, such as the Supreme Court. Secretary of finance is always talking about, of course not, there's nothing going on, but taking care of enough health care professionals to want to be here. It is still possible to do so. While the government has decided to prioritize taxpayers to something else, it is only clear and honest with them. This government does not establish national taxes in a first-class health system.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-130.u6	V.E.G. President. Unfortunately, the debate is the subject, and we've talked about today in the nobility that it's clear that we need to intervene. So I hold that it will be done in the way this is suggested. This morning's meeting revealed that the debates are in chaos, and treaties are not likely in the predictable future. On the other hand, I challenge the party to use the time given according to this bill, which will now be legalized today to converse and try to get together, for the good of all of us. Now is the time for a man to make good use of the days and weeks, and I really hope that everyone here will put their weight on the scales to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-130.u7	V.E.G. President. After rejecting this issue as we requested in the management situation, we have two adjustments, first of all, in terms of the length of contracts that the court will decide; it is open to the arrangement so that it can be held four years, six years, or ten years. We suggest that there will be no more than one year since the reinstatement, so the matter must be restored to the council, knowing that this is an enormous intervention in the Convention Court and the Constitution is correct and is human rights. Second, perhaps as a result of what has been discussed here, that when a court order begins to be discussed, all agreements are under, including doctors and high school teachers, the date will be taken out on May 1, 2015, in Article 3. Instead, contracts of last lost agreements make sure that economic stability is not disturbed, so it is changed by text so that it is completely clear and in accordance with the interpretation that it is possible to look at other collective agreements than the last labour agreements. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-130.u8	V.E.G. President. I don't support these changes in the memory of the object. That's clear on the 3rd floor. that according to the incident, other collective agreements can be considered on the length of a crime decision. At the same time, this is one of the factors that the workforce can agree on, as can be done in 2 mg. 3. (See footnote.) However, it states that any topic of the dispute is involved without wanting to make a decision. At the same time, 3 mg. assuming that the Court can agree on certain issues or treaties. So there's a law on the bill here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-130.u9	Mr. President. How sad it is to intervene in a quarrel with law and thereby side the sacred right to strike! In cases such as now, when it is realized that the public interest is at stake, when it is clear that the debate causes third party damage, third party that is nowhere near the issue, when it is clear that the argument will bite patients, it will bite the thousands of people waiting for the county services, it's gonna be a disaster on farmers, unfortunately it's gonna have to intervene. Hopefully, the time given in the bill or in the law will be sufficient to reach an acceptable result. I sincerely wish it would be. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-130.u10	V.E.G. President. It is not because of any joy you are participating in the Senate work today, but during negotiations, the gap between parties has been slightly reduced and the law on strikes can only be put in the case of a public interest. There are two groups that call on us senators, those who are in a strike, and those who suffer. It says that under law, there is no too extensive or long-term decrease in contract rights and I want to point out that it is still authorised to negotiate. After a difficult meeting of the morning, including A surgeon came to the General and Education Committee, I say.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-130.u11	President. Here is the Congress to accept laws that make the contract of those who are making deals with the State virtually impossible. People are being forced to negotiate and to tell them to go and negotiate as the state wishes. What kind of community is this that we live in? It's not a law I can't approve. The government had much time to arrive at the table and negotiate, 24 meetings held, no result. Those who arrived at the meeting had no authority. Now they have been authorized: Just do as we say.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-13-130.u12	V.E.G. President. For more than ten weeks, the strike operations BHM have been completed, and then nurses were added to the group. We have in this council hall many times requested discussions on that subject. This has not been the case. The Treaty Committee of the State has been sent to a number of meetings, always with the same offer, since the government was not going to negotiate. A crime has now been entrusted with the responsibility that a forwarding party and an independent group do not trust to shoulder. They have been entrusted to our health and to the future in their decisions about the salary of the great groups of women. There's a manipulative problem ahead of him in this system. It is a condition that no one wants to be responsible for. The government has now given up that responsibility.
