ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-62.u1	Honorable generals. It's final meeting of the Generals before Christmas break. During these last days at the General Assembly, it has been difficult for many reasons, as members of Congress are best aware of their own experience. I can't deny that I've been disappointed that we haven't managed to conduct Congress in accordance with the General Work Programme. I reiterate that I believe it is important that the work plan be a significant work plan for the Generals, that is for all. I have had a lot of thought in mind how a discussion about budgeting has developed in recent years. It was the same with the main financial discussion, the 2nd Environment. By means of the budget, it lasted 101⁄215 hours, often started in the morning, and was finished in the evening the same day or stood something into the night. This has not been true since the fall of 2012 when budgets were paid on December 20, at the same time as today, and the same trend has actually been in terms of votes by the 2nd. ... abundant. We can rejoice, however, that there has been a positive development in other aspects of the budget. Thus, in recent years we have come to terms with a set frame of 1st. Funds that have made this discussion much more progressive than ever before. So I would like to use this opportunity to reflect on the fact that we use the coming winter to reflect on how we could make the subsequent discussion of the budget more specific, promote meaningful communication, and also provide a reasonable space for a detailed discussion of the fundamentals of the budget, and it is clear to all. At the end of the council on July 3 of this year. I took up the debate at the General Assembly. In that speech, I said: ▪ We all know that there is a need for improvement and a better planning for discussion at the Assembly Hall, i.e. the part of Congress that is visible to the public. This, however, does not mean that discussions should be cut down. You see, there is little to compare with a good, rich discussion. This is especially true in discussions with people with different viewpoints, even fiercely. That is normal, since we are people with differing views and ideas, and the Allegler is obviously on the verge of an active platform of a serious political discussion. However, it is not to deny that all too often I missed such discussions in the winter. There is nothing wrong with a person absorbing himself in the chair, speaking out of the tone of voice, letting the blood be moved, moving in the shapes of the heavens, and calling out at ease when appropriate. But these are not related to abusive speech, nicknames, parentheses, and hurtful comments. ◯ To those words from the end of the summer, I don't have to add anything. The discussion of the last days, however, makes me feel that there is a reason to correct these views right here and now. On this occasion, I would like to thank the vice presidents for their joyful and cooperative cooperation in the Board of Meetings. At the same time, I thank the chairmans of Parliamentary Congresss for their smooth and good cooperation and for the trust that every man in the world has in that regard. At the end of this last meeting of the year 2015, I present to the members of the council, as well as to the staff of the Generals, a welcome thanks for their service in the National Park of the World, and a wish to all of them a joyful and peaceful Christmas celebration. I hope Christmas celebration will be our time of peace and joy, which is found in the message of Christmas. Those who have come a long way home wish I had a nice return home and we could all meet together in a whole new year. I will send my best Christmas and New Year's Eve.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-62.u2	A respectable president. In the name of our Generals, I very much thank the President of the Generals for the cooperation of this fall council. I'd like to give him a special thanks for our good and close cooperation with the council members. We will remember this fall council on account of the President's 60th anniversary and some other good memories that we will be taking home from then on. Although there have been some signs of a lack of affairs, in some cases we have achieved a solid solid solidararity across every category, and we are a bill of civil rights that became legal at the last meeting of the Fall Council. The Head Parliament is consistent with the financial process, and unfortunately, plans for it have not worked out, and plans have not completely resolved. This has followed some of the challenges that have not resulted in increasing confidence in the council or its respect. I emphasize that we use a new day and a new year to come together and make the revised review of our organization and ways that we need to attack, so this shadow does not have to be over the good work being done here. On behalf of us generals, I would present the President of the Generals and his family with the best wishes for Merry Christmas and success in the coming year. I also want to use this opportunity to thank the staff of the Generals very much for our cooperation and invaluable assistance in the implementation of Congress and all the work being done here. I also want to give their families the best wishes for Merry Christmas and the coming years. I ask all councilmen to sign Christmas wishes and New Year's Eve to the President of the Generals, the staff, and their families by rising from their seats. - [[Senators rose from seats.]] Merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-62.u3	Thank you. 9th. Smoke. So, Helgi Hjörvar, for warm words and good wishes to me and my family and why. Councilmen for accepting that word by rising from their seats. I'm also saying thank you and wishes to do it again. All members of the Parliament and staff of the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-62.u4	Iceland's number tells: That, according to the approval of the Generals, I am authorized by the Prime Minister to postpone the General Assembly Summit 145th, from 19 December 2015 or later, if necessary, to 19 January 2016. Arrange at any sites, December 18, 2015. Ólafur Ragnar Grímsson. Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. The letter of Iceland's President to postpone the meeting of the Generals. By this authority and by references to the approval of the Generals, I declare that the Council is suspended. Thank you. All council members and members of the Parliament for the work that was well done in the previous part of winter, and wishes them, their families and the people of the country, all the merry Christmass and successes in the new year.
