ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u1	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a panel of bodies and a change to the Economic and Business Commission's proposal for a permanence tax legislation. For example, consider the name of the committee and the making of changes. 1609. I will now swerve the main points of the committee article and key changes, but I will refer to the Senate document in other ways. The bill suggests that legalisation will become a single-change stable tax in order to provide the basis for the emissions of capital wastes with economic stability and social benefits guided. The bill is part of a budget release programme and submitted along with a bill for changes in financial law (a short contract). Because the bill is aimed at paying for financial agreements made in the treatment of wear and allowing Iceland's Secret Bank to receive valuables in the form of stability from the hands of taxpayers. That provision is headed for the same objective, i.e. that there may be a possibility of decommissioning a capital capital without a threat to economic and financial stability. Comments on the motive and basis of the procedure, the need for it, and its effect are discussed in a detailed way. For one thing, the amount of money that comes into the state's budget for a stable tax will be taken only according to economic and financial stability goals. The committee received 27 reviews and talks, hosting 62 guests, and on behalf of the committee, I would like to thank the managers and visitors for their contribution to the case. In the opinion of the Committee, there are the measures taken by the bill for the necessary reasons why capital planning can be abolished. It is also assessed by the Committee that the tax rate is based on objective views and is not going beyond the need to ensure that decommissioning of capital resources does not threaten the stability of the economic system. In the opinion of the Commission, the key premise is that the objectives of the bill will be met by the financial and financial stability of the tax fund. The Commission has a right to the purpose of the tax is not to raise the government's funds to cover the government's expenses but to provide the basis for the emissions of capital ablation, with economic stability and the protection of the public. The Commission requested in this context a further review of information that appears in the financial cost of the office's office for the bill that a loose estimate could be 640 billion dollars. a decrease in the debt of state funds leads to 35 billion dollars. reduction in the interest rate of state funds. In response to government funds to the Committee, we learn that the only debt that could be settled at the moment of financial recovery is 145 billion dollars. the post posts of a bond published by the state's fund to finance Iceland's National Bank after the fall of the banking system in the fall of 2008, as such a provision will not affect driving amount of money, increase in in inflation, or create pressure on the gangs of the kroner. Otherwise, complex measures and financial initiatives over a longer period will be needed to prevent further use of funds to reduce the debt of the state's funds from having a negative impact on financial stability and money levels. The reviews show the importance of the money that comes into the state's budget because of the rules of the bill so that they do not make a choice. As shown in the comments to the bill, some of the funds the taxpayers will now be used to pay the tax inactive financial contributions. It is important that money is not set aside for the increase in Kingdom spending, since it would contribute to an increase in the amount of money in traffic and would have an effect on the economy. The committee agrees with these views. In 1st. The bill says that in a budget bill, the estimated treatment and provision of the funds are outlined. Ministers should consult Iceland's Secret Bank on the evaluation of this impact on economic and financial stability. The committee considers a planned consultation with the Sensitive Bank very important and emphasizes that its guidance will be followed. The Commission also believes that it is important that at the preparatory level of budgetary regulations, the Committee will introduce the Minister's plans for the handling and handling of the funds and will make the Committee's proposal for changes to Article 1. The bill. It is a joy to know that the above points and the language in general were a monotonous and cross - political stand on the committee. I will only address the stability conditions mentioned in the report with the bill. Iceland's border has published the standards that will be given in the light of the granting of this budget from the capital of which we're building fallen financial companies. In this regard, the Navy will take into account the potential solutions of the problem that have been made in the information exchange of the EEA's budgets and the representative of the demands and fragmentors, that measures that will be sufficient to reduce the negative effects of property spending in Iceland, that other domestic holdings in foreign currency will be converted to the extent needed and guaranteed, in the case appropriate, to lend money to the government in foreign currency that was paid in the following financial collapse. The committee points out that the fallen business banks and savings that meet the deadlines by 2015 will not be considered taxable to parties, as 1 mgr. Section 3. The bill. The Commission stresses that all taxpayers will be made available at a covering-up meeting on the stability conditions and how they can meet them. The committee obliges their understanding that we would evaluate the request for a paradox to be in accordance with Article 1. The bill considered economic stability and public interest targets, but this leads to a loss in currency reserves and in public life rates. The Commission also insists that, in accordance with the currency laws, the bank shall only be granted to agreeing with a minister and, after the release of a minister on their economic impact to the Economic and Business Committee. The committee suggests a change of 2 mg. 2.g. The bill regarding the payment of the taxpayers. According to the bill, the taxpayers who once served as business banks or savings are now under treatment, or they have completed, because the federal court has decreed that they should be taken for bankruptcy. It seems reasonable to the committee that all of the lawyers who were formerly employed as business banks or savings and who are involved in the financial problem that the bill is supposed to solve fall under the definition of taxpayers. Therefore, the committee suggests that those who have completed broken - off treatment by a contract but who have failed to pay according to it are also included in taxable parties and thus contributes to a change of material to 2k. and Article 1. The bill. In particular, because of forced contracts performed as business banks or savings funds, there is a responsibility for the financial movement between countries that adversely affect the stability of gangs and money. It is evident, therefore, that in such cases, the level of payment that the bill is intended to solve is, as soon as these members are unable to fulfill their commitments, and that it is reasonable to create a path to govern their affairs in the light of the objectives of the bill. The committee also suggests a change of 2nd sector 2 mg. Section 5. The bill. They presented a point of view in the outworking of the case, as stated in Article 15. h Penalties has been applied up to this point because of the neglect of the party on the delivery of information, and when people authorized for currency exchange have failed to meet the requirements for reform within a suitable delay. The principle now allows for a daily allowance to be taken from 10 of you. K. To 1 million. K. In the 3rd sector, pars. The bill is suggested that the Bank of Iceland be allowed to pay a date to those who fail to comply with the bank's demands on conduct that, in the opinion of the bank, they do not agree with the legal requirements of currency, or they do not comply with the demands that such behavior be improved or corrected. The committee suggests that in such cases the above - mentioned daily counts will not be valid. In view of the role models in other fields of legislation and the great interests of capitalists, the committee considers that instead of raising the roof, it is preferable to eliminate them. In view of the above, the Commission suggests that the decision of a dollar should be taken to take into account the nature of the pieces and the financial strengths of the individual. A respectable president. The Commission suggests that the bill will be adopted with the changes made in the Senate document. Hv. paritaprevir Lieutenant Birgitta Jónsdóttur supports the case. Under countless printed page. Councilmen Frosti Sigurjónsson, chairman and spokesman, Willum Þór Thor Thor Thor Þórsson, Líneik Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótttir Unnur Konráðsdóttir, Sigríður Á. Andersen, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, Árni Páll Árnason, Steigursson Sigfússon Sigfugursson and Steingrímsson Steingmursson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u2	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigurionsson for the cooperation of the Economic and Business Committee on these matters, in fact another one. I feel very lonely about these matters, and really, I don't feel compelled to say much about them but that I'm just really happy with these bills, and I think they've also improved in the context of the Committee. It was a bit much about creating the correct, legal wording in order to end all possible ends in this system of laws, which is actually not an example, but problems that are not precedents. I am very pleased with these bills, and I hope that the goals will be achieved, and I have strong faith in them, especially after the work of the Committee. However, there are questions that arise, as well as one of those who have awakened in the community among some, that there is too much difference between stability and the government funds through stable taxes and demands that there are overreaching contracts through stability contracts and emergency contracts. I don't think so. I think this criticism is a misunderstanding. It's not about earning money, it's not about earning money for a trust fund. It's actually spending a certain amount of money, and I'm glad that I'm alone on the Committee not considering this to be money that would be going into the economy and lead to expansion. But what does it say? paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson of recent criticisms?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u3	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question and also thank him for his cooperation during the winter, and especially in this case, which has been very complex and has been called in many conferences and high drift policies. But this is a good question, perhaps not completely obvious, and it is important to consider that people compare this tax with the possible income that could most fall from the tax, and then if all broken - up camps, they would pay it and then the stability donations discussed with the largest requirement for meeting the conditions. However, the stability progress is just one of the six that these broken - ups offer to be used to meet the requirements. The requirements are not thought - provoking. A senator mentioned, to raise the state fund of income, but to neutralize the market for payment on the payment of the nation's income, income, and currency reserve. So they do not have negative effects on the quality of life, nor do they have negative effects on the currency reserve, nor do they adversely affect the payment balance. It is the role of the project and it is possible for these habitats to use these six different ways, i.e. stability, which may include exchange agreements, conditional bonds, exorbitant fees, loans reimbursement, endowment increases, these are very many and complex catheters. But what I think is the most important thing about this, the main thing is that we're creating a basis for removing the oceans here. It is not a business of income, it is a premise that can be removed from the community and that is, before any accession will be granted to these authorities from the seas, it is very important and is reserved in the Committee's committee's section, and they will be presented and their economic impact before the Commission.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u4	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. In fact, it is an important addition to the Commission's arrival when the final results or fixed contracts are reviewed. I think it's very important to correct it at this point. This was done in 1st. and was left alone on the committee that it would be absolutely certain that the means of design that will lead to a great flow of money in the state's funds are not for income. The objective is to try to remove a currency head and do so so so that it does not affect the standard of living and does not increase the population's balance problem. That is the goal, and that is the condition that the contracts must meet. This may be because there is likely a misunderstanding in society, and people think it is money like any other money that could be used for the rest. It is not simple to use this money, as the committee discussed, to pay off public debts. That would be the wisest thing we could do, but it is not a simple operation because it could lead to money going out into the economy and leading to expansion. All of this needs to work very wisely, and to make that common understanding of the money, I would like to ask you why. A member of the council may ask, "Is it not absolutely certain that all groups of the Council will view the key subject of this whole process as preventing this money from completing the economy? "
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u5	A respectable president. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator has come to this very important point on which all the committees agree, and in it they represent all classes at the council, that it is a complete premise for the objective of the bill to be met by the funds that may be funded for taxation, or in this stability or other contributions, will be determined according to the economic and financial stability objectives. And as the answer from the government office has confirmed, the only debt that can be leveled as soon as financial resources are available is 145 billion bonds, the post postages of a bond, the Secret Bank, and that does not result in any discharge of money into the economy. But it is clear that if the state starts to reduce its debt very quickly and to pay off debt, tens of billions will begin to flow suddenly to the economy. When the government pays off debt in the economy, free money goes into traffic, which can lead to inflation, leading to a gang pressure, i.e. People want to use that cash to buy a currency or do something else or an act of property, where people use the money or invest money to invest money in existing assets. All of these are things discussed on the committee, and a single person was on the committee. I think this council will at least have the best of luck to be careful, and a man wishes that the future senators will do the same, for there may be a moral problem if those funds are in the bank. But it is very important to bear in mind that all of this funds will have to be introduced to the Federal Bank and must be sought out by the Federal Bank on this effect, whether it is safe to use this money, and when it comes as I now expect to be a few years, but not a decade, depending on the amount, the more money that comes in, the longer the problems need to be distributed. Therefore, no matter how much we get into it, whether it is small or large, the problem is growing, and the problem of temptation is growing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u6	Mr. President. I want to thank you too. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Siglejonsson for his history and his good work on the Committee. I can honestly say that I have some doubts about the way that seems to be the result. I may be able to live with it because I trust my Greek eyes. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Siglejonsson. I had the opportunity to spend a day with him on the committee, and I found that his work was very helpful. That's what I'd like to say. I described at the time a firm support for the stable tax was made when it came out. It was based on the ideologies that I had since been employed, that the crowning of my scraps would be demeaned, and understanding these ideologies is very easy. However, it was not until she was introduced to theHorp meetings, which revealed that there was another way the demands could also be carried out. In fact, as indicated by what he said. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigurionson, it seemed to be based on the ideas of the largest demanding crew, why. A senator literally said so. It turns out that they will escape to the point that financial stability is guaranteed by both routes, but on one side they may escape at 400 billion dollars. less. I don't think anything unclean or unnatural about Icelanders wondering if it would be desirable to go that way, especially because that way is very vague according to the so - called stability conditions. It's very difficult for me to get to the bottom of that way. I've tried, tried to explain it to myself, and in conversations with others, but I admit that there are very few members in this room who fully understand it. The question I have to ask. A senator: Does it really matter? Have you not just decided which way to go? They're not going to go on the stable tax. They're going to take a road to stability and input. Isn't the Council being set up in advance?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u7	A respectable president. I thank you for the excellent question of whether the council has been established in advance. In terms of the stability process or frame route, which is the option for the stable tax, the only thing is that key demands have been developed how to adapt to these conditions and solve them without causing the stress of the remuneration and living income in the country and without causing economic instability. Whether other demands agree with the ideas of these key requirements will be clearly identified in the first place. Whether they agree to this policy at meetings that will now be held, expected this year, hopefully soon. Whether the bat feels that their ideas harmonize with the demands they have been made will also come to light. The Agency has said it will work, but the Councilman has not yet given his final answer to whether he will recommend that these proposals or ideas be taken, i.e. that they meet conditions. It is important to note that this is not a negotiation. They must meet certain requirements. I think it's key. It remains to be seen whether the Minister agrees with the results of the Navy Bank and then whether the Economic and Business Committee agrees with both conclusions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u8	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for his honesty in answer to me. I would like to ask him, " Which way would he want to go? ' Which way is he safer? Hv. A senator naturally stresses that there were no negotiations, yet he says that this is based on the ideas of the largest crew. V.E.G. A financial minister said that they had had had a conversation, and they had been allowed to express their attitude, and this led to their hearing. To me, this is no more than a negotiation of any kind, and this is the result. The conclusion, then, is that the demands may escape 400 billion dollars. That's crazy because they got to make a deal. All right. Hv. A senator's concern is that if the banks were sold abroad, they might put pressure on their stability later on. These are the exact same concerns as the 1996 annual meeting of the 2013 Federal Bank Board of Overseers, Már Guðmundsson, U.S.A. I'm not worried. I'm very uncomfortable, but I don't quite understand all these stability conditions and how everything flows along. At least I think I see one thing out of this, i.e. that in the way the crews are going to go, and they have declared it, there is a built - in motivation to sell the banks out of the country, I read them out of this that they may sludge 60 to 80 billion dollars. better by selling the banks out of the country. I don't have to say what. A senator may lead to what result when foreign owners who may soon have their banks cleaned from within them. It's a real danger. Counts 'em out. A senator said that it is right to give the amount of space that is directly based on the pressure of demands to sell the banks out of the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u9	A respectable president. I want to be the one to worry about this. I'm very worried about that, I don't think it would be practical for the bank to be sold out of the country, and I don't want to believe that it's our requirement here at the council or to any other party.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u10	It is an incentive for the demands.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u11	There is, however, an idea, isn't there? I don't see the motivation there. I see it's their idea to set them up like this. But I don't think we should set up the stability conditions like this or call out that selling the banks from the country will be a greater motive than selling them in this country. I think it would be really bad, and I don't want to believe it. But I have no information about it. But it may well be that these are their ideas, or they offer, or they say it, I've heard it. I've described it before that I don't like it. But all of this has not exactly been passed on to me, of course.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u12	A respectable president. I recommend the Committee of Economic and Business Committees on this matter on bill to legalize a change in financial law, a form of a short-term bill. There's a figure of the nominee on the deck. 1610 and I'm going to refer to the main ingredient, along with the spell. 1612, the adjustment made by the committee. As noted in the preceding talk, the chairman of the Commission on stable taxes, the committee has received a number of visitors for this matter, and we appreciate all of them the best thanks for, both government officials and specialists in various ways. The meetings have been many, and all have been very useful to members of the committee. In the work of the Committee, a number of factors or almost all the rules of the bill have been taken for careful consideration and, in line with the views tore up in a committee party, and to some extent, I will tore in my speech, are presented for a certain change in the bill. The work of the Committee will take into account the high interests available, taking into account the views of ensuring that the poor economic stability process will be the most efficient, although not being handled on the rights of the less demands and the reasons for economic stability will not be replaced. Well, I'd like to start by taking a little off to 1.g. The bill, part a, but to the Committee it suggested that cross references in this article were wrong. It's being corrected in an adjustment form, and I'm not going to trace it any further. The committee then presented various views that involve irresponsibility. After a thorough review of the case, the Commission concluded that there would be no change from the bill itself. The committee also gave a view that in order to complete a short contract, financial companies may have to make financial contributions in order to pay high standards. According to the Committee, such measures may be considered reasonable in view of the specific nature of the switch. Thus, the Commission suggests that fragmenting governments are authorized to submit further financial obligations if this is in favour of demands and contracts. The committee has therefore proposed a change in C- team 1st par. The bill that reflects that view. However, it is proper to say that if financial companies are involved in breaking up therapy, they will have an active financial share of 29. a law on finance companies on such loans. It is true that borrowing is not up to the rules of currency law, No. 87/1992, and new legal requirements, do not include exceptions from currency laws. At the meeting the Committee discussed the reference rate c-joins 1.g. The bill for the interest of demands. As I mentioned earlier, it is suggested here that loans for further binding be permitted if this is in favour of the demands. It is the Commission's evaluation, and it is right to insist that such assessments, whether it is the interests of demandrs, are entirely in the hands of wearer control and, after the events of the requiring conferences. Thus, if approved at a press conference, which is announced according to the laws on financial companies, it may be considered as a provision for the property and rights of a financial company. Then I'm just going to step up to 2 g's. The bill, but to it, the committee contributes a number of changes. The bill recommends that, instead of being based on three months before the deadline - is indicated in the c- team 2.g. - will be the day before the deadline. This should be considered, however, that the rules of deferment for bankruptcy are aimed at preventing demands or partial failure to issue votes for a short contract at the expense of other demands, e.g. in order only to increase the number of ballot rules, so that a requirement that should have been followed only one pedestrian song follows the motion of two votes. The bill's proposal to move the early times until the day when a financial company is removed considered that it could be difficult to detect and localize a budget on a financial enterprise in the gaps three months before the deadline, as is a principle in making pacts. A financial and convincing evidence that the time goal would be extended was presented in the reviews of fragmentation. It is not least determined by the fact that the demand for farms has gone on to a far greater degree than previously understood by the breakup or the forced agreements of Icelandic companies, and in some cases it may be impossible to identify who has taken the terms of financial contributions until the time when the demands for broken work have been declared by the worker. In view of these views, the commission suggests the change in the bill to the position required at the end of a deadline. Um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um... um, um, um... um, um, um, um, um, um... um, um, um... um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um... The bill focused on two points, one on the relationship between the proportion of those who accept a financial contract with their votes and their posts, and the other on the other hand, the rights to the rights to the holding of deposit funds to vote for a financial company's emergency contract. The committee's meetings discussed a number of views related to these points, which are covered in detail in the committee's opinion. Taking into account the viewpoints presented, the Commission proposes a rule that 90% of demands per budget are always sufficient to agree with the bill to a price agreement, even if the proposed quits are higher. The reviews of money companies and those who care for demandholders also made it clear that certain cases related to the votes of the rights of the holding funds, which are common in various countries abroad, especially in the English - speaking world. For the Committee it was noted that in the leading of the financial collapse, Icelandic financial companies published bonds under the jurisdiction of New York, U.S.A. It was large stock editions with special editions where specialized deposit funds are entrusted with so - called total stocks, which will then deliver a portion of the rights of the bond to the rights of creditors. Such investors are not required by the publisher of the bond, but by the trust fund itself. For the Committee there was a view that because of the trial in the publishing of these entire bonds, it is unlikely that those persons who are involved in financial funds, which are so-called owners, will pay votes for financial support. It may be a shocking conclusion, and in view of this, it is reasonable to authorize rights which truly have the interests of a contract to vote on the rights of vote on the basis of an agency from the trust fund. So the committee suggests a change of content. Then I'm going to step back to F-1. 2. ., which, according to Iceland's National Bank assessment, shows the effect of a labour agreement on stability. The Committee concluded that the European Commission's assessment of the economic impact of a labour agreement and whether it affects stability in the welfare and financial stability of the economy is an important prerequisite for ensuring the possibility of breaking down fallen financial companies does not jeopardize this economic stability. The Commission takes into account their understanding that the evaluation of the exception of broken governments will be considered to be economic stability and public interest targets. As a result, there will be no march on the currency reserve and the standard of living in this country. The Commission also insists that, in accordance with the currency laws, the bank shall only be granted to agreeing with a minister and, in the exception of a minister's presentation of their economic impact on the situation. The Economic and Business Committee. It is proper to point out that the wording of 1. F- team 2. The bill cannot be understood otherwise than that it is the weight of the fragmented financial company, which is under fragments, whether Iceland's Secret Bank on Economic Effects is obtained before or after the demand for the bill's approval of a labour agreement. The Commission concluded that it would be necessary to adjust the terms of income taxation in accordance with the indications given to the committee and thus suggest two temporary adjustments in the legal requirements of income taxation with a new provision for temporary purposes. First of all, the provision does not include making pay on the decision of a income tax, and second, there is a change in terms of limitation of the tax base for the decision of a specific fiscal tax. These modifications are displayed on a document with other modifications and are listed with characters a and b. The change in a- team means that once a debt or other commitments are made in relation to a contract contract made by law and which is made against borrowing the fees made in itself that remuneration should not be considered taxable when paying public remuneration in 2016 for 2015. In particular, the provision is considered to be a post-imbursement and the reception of the money in the creditable partner, not to be paid by creditors or creditors. The position of the operator who receives the required debt is, in most cases, a substantial loss of the business and acquiesces the revenue. Thus, in such a situation, there is really no taxation due to income transfer on the posts of debt. It is assumed that the loss of the year and the overcoming loss due to the previous year will always be balanced first before the recovery of income due to postmortems will be out of debt in accordance with the proposal of the bill. However, the change in the b- team also includes the fact that the decision of a strain of stress on the basis of a specific fiscal tax product should not be taken into account, which is formed from the general post-treatment debt in relation to the end of broken treatment of taxes, according to Article 103.3 of the Treaty. a law on finance companies. It may be noted that the change in the a- team only includes not counting on the demands and debt income that may be generated by post-imbursement on the delivery of stocks to the committed partner. The Committee claims that these temporary changes are suggested in order to pay for the work done by the sufferers'contracts, which become taxable under the bill to legalize stable taxes. The committee received comments on the continuation of 118rd. legal insurgent exchange requires insistents to describe to this day their demand for swelling. Such comments made by the Commission presented the opinion that it is important to be sure as early as possible to determine whether the demands will be broken and before votes will be paid for the bill to be contracted. To take care of the above views on the protection of demandsants, it is agreed to meet the above views with a suggestion that suggests that the requirements set up for a particular period of time and that will be addressed to a break - up regime must be declared in a reliable way for broken control to meet the rules of bankruptcy laws. However, the right to make this adjustment does not involve a physical modification of 118 verses. Act of bankruptcy. The proposal is to make clear that the requirements adopted on September 1, 2014 must be described by the end-of-the-line management of 15 August 2015. The requirements of the requirements have been supported by the 1st or 5th figures of 118.g. Act of bankruptcy. If such a requirement occurs before August 15, 2015, then an assessment must be made that meets the other criteria of 118. Set. The meetings were covered in detail on Article 4. The bill, which is not as technical as the preceding articles, which I have partly accessed. But Section 4. The bill assumes a warrant for Iceland's National Focal Bank in order to receive every amount of financial value in connection with programmes for the release of capital waste, so called stability donations. It should be kept in mind that 2 mg. Thirty-four. a law on Iceland's Pentateuch assumes that the US Bank's profits will go to a state fund to meet certain conditions. If stability spending, as far as 4. The decision was made, first to visit the Federal Bank, and then a government fund would be placed on that basis and treatment would not be limited to the same restrictions as shown in 2 mg. 1st par. the bill to fix a stable tax, and it has been described earlier in a talk before me. So the committee saw the need to make a change in Article 4. The bill in view of the objective of this bill, as well as the bill for a stable tax. The objective of the bill on stable taxes has been well described in the speaker of that subject. In order to achieve the aims of these two bills, it is important that the amount of money funded on taxation be set aside according to economic and financial stability goals. The committee has a legal obligation to share the same viewpoints as that of Article 4. This bill is about. So, behind Iceland's Secret Bank to receive stability, there is no viewpoint on earning money, but its purpose is to ensure that decommission does not threaten the stability of the economy and the public interests of the country. Accordingly, according to the above - mentioned views, the committee suggests a change in Article 4. the bill means that the value of the Councilman in the form of stability will run into a government fund but will be maintained by the bank, and that the treatment and arrangements must be consistent with the stability goal and be behaved in accordance with 2 mg. 1st par. a law on stability taxes, to achieve that. It is also suggested that a minister be allowed to hide a special entity employed by the bank to care for the property and management of the assets, in view of the fact that their solution could already take place. Not necessarily. A respectable president. I've toured the main views of the changes made by the Economic and Business Committee in this matter. Other than that, I refer to the committee's view. Finally, I want to assume that there was a great deal of agreement on the committee's release of this case, cross-politic, if considered relevant, and is particularly determined by the goal of the bill to ensure long-term stability in the delinquency of the capital burglars. I want them to know that, under this opinion, the publication that appears here and there. Councilmen Frosti Sigurjónsson chairman, Steingrímsson Steingmursson, Líneik Sævarsdóttir Unnur Konráðsdóttir, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason and Willum Þór Þórsson. Hv. Councilmen J. Sigfússon and Árnason support the issues and opinions of the committees that appear in the committee's section of what I have now traced, but they have chosen to give up a special interest on the matter. Finally, I want to thank you to the Committee and other employees, especially for the ministry in this important matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u13	President. Thank you for the tour. It's complicated. I'd also like to thank the Committee for a very good cooperation. I'm a new members of the Committee, because of what I'm doing. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson is leaving the Council after a short time, and I believe it is necessary to have a comprehensive view of the matter, as this is, of course, the first key point. I'd like to ask you what. Senator a few questions. The first one comes in front of the demands. A report by the World Bank notes that he considers the government's economic forecast to be more optimistic than that governments do not fully take account of the risks facing Iceland in the coming years. The report also shows that AGS feels that even if there is a 39% tax, the disposal of a currency safe from Icelanders can be delayed. Based on the demander's suggestion, they are being granted additional access to currency, while the International Cash Fund assumes that an Icelandic home will remain. Isn't there any danger of that, huh? A senator, to be suspended by a domestic bankraptor, as the World Cash Fund is concerned, that the demands of an exit have been ensured? Do demands have first place? Then I would like to ask: Is it true that if the banks are sold next year, foreign demands will be able to remove tens of billions of dollars from the economy while the entire pension system can only invest in foreign funds for 10 billion dollars?? Counts 'em out. A senator here being fully equal between domestic parties and demands?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u14	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Of course, if she's interested in my position on this case, I don't think it will work here that there's a financial exchange between countries, whether in companies, individuals, or abroad, who choose to come here and invest here. Of course, the two issues discussed here are part of removing the oceans. In fact, the economic stability disorder that could occur if a person went into one trade, a foreign resident, with property from abroad in foreign currency is not to be overlooked. I certainly believe that the next step should be to cut off the oceans and not know better than it is in the car. This is part of the disposal of the sea. In terms of the pension fund, I think it is absolutely necessary to increase the resources of pensions to invest abroad. It has to do with the natural interests of the public in the country not putting all the eggs in the same basket. I don't know any better than they're doing it, i.e. to increase the resources of pensions to invest in foreign lands. Actually, I don't think it's enough to do and I would have liked to go further, and I don't think it's gonna be out of the question. All of this, though, is the course in the right direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u15	President. I appreciate the answers. On the basis of the motion of the demands, it seems that in the bank, citizens will have to offer up to twice as much price as a foreign buyer in order to be equally successful. Buying Iceland Bank makes it impossible for domestics to buy. Is it true that it is virtually impossible for a domestic person to buy an Iceland Bank based on a demander? I worry about it, but I think it's very serious that it's a professional thing to fail when banks were private. Then I'd like to ask, there's one thing that's got me really good at this job that I haven't seen any of these stability conditions. They have been discussed and picked up the stability databases, but neither the government nor the Federal Council have provided these conditions for the Council or for the economic analysis of them, although these same conditions have already been presented to demands. I think it's very important that we take these actions, I feel very uncomfortable how this goes through simply because I feel that we don't have all the information, but it's maybe just my aggressor that I feel uncomfortable making decisions blind. I'd like to ask you why. A senator feels that we don't have all the evidence that I feel is necessary to make such a huge decision, such as. In-use stability conditions. Although it is not fundamental, having perspective is a very important link.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u16	A respectable president. In fact, I think stability conditions are fundamental and relevant. A senator may agree on that. I'm not sure that it is correctly described, although the conditions of stability have been presented to demands. However, there is a possibility that some stretchers have taken the initiative themselves to make their suggestion to meet some stable conditions themselves. It's just that we're talking about the stability of the whole country. And one sandwich, you can't set conditions for maybe one coop if there's no way in which other stretchers are gonna play things out, so all these things have to be somehow in the way, you need to see some overall vision in it. I agree that of course it would be more fun and might be more comfortable for politicians to get this whole list up in an excel document, but the life may be better off than an excel-tail, and it may have to be handled as they come up. It is emphasized, and it is justified here, that every request of this entitlement should be submitted by an independent pair of broilers. A self - examination is needed, however, in view of what is happening elsewhere in society. I'd like to point out what's going on. The Economic and Business Committee will be presented with the accessories that the Federal Committee intends to provide before it is done. Then the Senate has at least some occasion to do so. For banks'sale, it is now the very subject that I would especially like to discuss in this council hall. As a politician today, I have no basis to consider who to sell this bank. I just expect someone to be interested in buying and paying.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u17	Mr. President. This is where we spoke two years ago. Women both on the Economic and Business Committee. One of them, huh? paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir, simply said that he did not understand some of these stability conditions and that he did not see them. I agree with those comments. Hv. A senator who spoke earlier, Sigríður Andersen, said that he knew almost nothing about the consequences of bank sales. It gives me a measure of fear. As I said in the past, I have tried what I can to understand fully these stability conditions. I understand the precise ideologies behind the stable tax, I understand why it is 39% and it's definitely safe. I like him, and I'm prepared to think that he will ensure the nation's financial stability. But I'm not nearly as sure with stability conditions as I am then. They were not introduced until they presented everything in the Wall. I just have to rely on my men of the Committee. I've already said that I trust each other. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson the son of Sigurdjón. Very well. It gives me a certain feeling of comfort, or it works against the feeling of discomfort. But who can say that the stability project is enough? Who values it? I can't. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir told, and then probably not. paritaprevir Sigríður Andersen. Hv. A senator turned aside checks about the banks. But it's not possible. The committee presented information indicating that selling banks to foreign investors is a financial force. That's 70 billion. I'll get it out of the data I've seen. But we do know what that means. That means the owners will try everything they can to get the most out of the banks. There will be an increase in the amount of money and pressure in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] That's why I'm asking. A member of Congress: Is she convinced that it's okay just to sign off the possibility that foreign investors will be allowed to buy the banks? Is it for our consumers and society?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u18	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Well, there is, of course, some of the Court's long - term stability criteria. Not to be overlooked is the fact that there is already a source of authority on currency, from the Federal Bank to provide a release from currency law. The late bank has already given an exception from currency law. It is already guided by certain viewpoints, with economic stability, equality, and so forth. Of course, it is not in some lack of purpose that it is suggested that the Society's accessor be presented at the same time. The Economic and Business Committee. Hv. The Economic and Business Committee will then be able to make comments if it serves as a result of the Agency's assessment of the effects of the stability initiatives that will be made or influenced by means of provisions for the wear and tear farms. So I don't think the council will be, and I can't go on without it, not at all. I think it's very important that the council take care of it and see what assessment will be offered on behalf of the Federal Bank for the granting of the releases that this bill includes, which I have just brought up the history of a committee opinion. [[The president calls.]] That's all I can try to hurt. All of the councilmen, their contribution in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u19	Mr. President. Thank Guð, yeah. paritaprevir Sigríður Andersen believes that these letters should be viewed at the council. It matters to me that a person from her political wing would say that. What's my role here? It's beating on the guys that come up here and say, "It's okay. It's the job of senators to be Critic about this. I'm not convinced that this road with the stability conditions is nearly as secure as the road with the stable tax. I can believe why. A senator for the fact that I see a reporter like Þórðarson at Station 2 talking about the joys of the crew. I feel a little chill when that fine reporter says that the mood's making him nervous. And he asks aloud in a fist the other day: Is it possible that the government has written by itself? When I read the news on Bloomberg, I feel chills as we read the anonymous demands that the result has intrigued them and is far better than they expected. It's a chill when I read it by the demands that they're happy to get away from paying $2.75 billion instead of $5.1 billion. I wondered, " Is this matter worth considering the challenges we are facing? ' For example, I'm not sure that in the long-term funding of the Icelandic bank through the domestic property of foreign depositors in currency, I am not sure. What happens if things get tough after seven years? Well, there's 150 billion in currency, maybe to 200, for example. I'm not happy that it's just set up for the committee as a good option that it's all right, so I took it, that foreign investors buy Icelandic banks, unless you're looking for a problem. [[The president calls.]] We need to know the benefits of doing so. I know the trouble. It's possible that there's more money in the form of a stronger currency position, but then we have to understand it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u20	A respectable president. I now consider a minor misunderstanding in these two ways, if we simplify it and talk about two ways when we refer to the stable tax or the stability process. These aren't two ways to compete, they're not. I'm stressing what's been said here that this isn't a business campaign for state funds. It's not a question of how much government funds can make, it's a question of how we'll let the owners of foreign currency out of the country with it in mass tape. That's what it's all about. Hv. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aphphénsson says he heard it somewhere when demanding men laugh now, they're making money because they escape the tax. Today, there is no reason for all broken - up families to be able to settle marital problems. [[I read it somewhere.]] Let us not minimize the misunderstandings of forced agreements and the many pursuits of the demands. It is by no means possible for all these factions to be able to negotiate difficult contracts. I mean, if they appreciate it so that it's more practical and the most successful, they'll do everything they can to do this right before the years are gone, I have no faith in anything but they try. It may be that demandsmen do not agree to a contract and prefer to pay taxes here, that may be, and remain here. Some have said that they have such a good thing, a country's demands, that they don't want to go, so it's not all by themselves. Finally, I want to remind you that, of course, it is not that all things can be predicted. [[The president calls.]] Politicians who feel that way, trying to control the country with that attitude, not knowing how well and how well it is practiced in countries far away from us, and we don't want to focus on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u21	Mr. President. I had, for example, thought that the points of the government would honor us with their presence at 2 Peter 3: 1. Um., the main talk on these big issues, especially. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. A prime minister who could have been happy to have a word here. But that's enough. I would like to recommend my share of the Economic and Business Committee. That's why we're here. paritaprevir PállÁrniÁrnason How can we be sure that we are in harmony with the members of the greater section and the viewpoints presented there? There is reason to stress that there is a majority and minor opinion in the second bill not because the economic and business committees split or that there were profound differences, on the contrary. It was very enjoyable to work on the committee on a solid basis of this matter, and in my opinion, it is the important transpolitian solidarity that lies behind the argument found in the commissions of all. The lesser part must draw attention to the late arrival of these bills, which appeared at the General Assembly in mid - June. As a result, the General has not given them a long time to lie down, but I still want to commend my work on a financial and business committee. The committee has worked hard and hard to investigate this case, and I give commendation to the Chairman of the Committee, why. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Siglejosson, who has directed that work well as a spokesman for the other bill, Sigríður Á. Andersen, who has completed his history here. I'd like to thank all my members of the Committee and our fine judicious editors or specialists, members of the Committee who have certainly spent the night working at that job. It was not to ease the memory of the part or to the person listed here that the so - called Refining Committee was, unfortunately, virtually inactive of the past loss and had none of these matters to report before the Passover and until the prime signs arrived. It simply called for more work for spokesmen of the classes in this case to settle into the relatively complex issues involved. It is also clear that, in one way or another, the two matters are fundamentally different. As mentioned here on the stabilisation bill, that action is complete and expressed. In both legal and tax matters, it is very simple. The taxandi is the total possession of the population, as it does for the next year. The tax ratio is 39%, and it is then specified but the specific extraction options, i.e. that there is a long-term investment in certain domestic product, which, in turn, finances a bank in this country to a maximum of 20% of tax deduction by means of which means that the deduction will never exceed 50 billion per capita. This leads to the conclusion that taxation is in no doubt at all if it was to the whole of Iceland's record. There is no doubt that at any time in one year, there would never have been one tax source that would have produced 682 billion in the Icelandic history if that happened. However, from the 2000 to 845 billion may most be attracted to 163, and the net production would be 682 billion in wealth. However, the subsidence process by paying the so - called stabilisation process is much less clear to evaluate the amount of money and financial outcomes. In the first place, the stability conditions are not public and the evaluation of the amount of money that will be changed, since most of the people to whom we have wrestled have had a wide range of challenges. Most of the above numbers have been named in 300◯450 billion times. who would be angry and go to the State well to represent these stability contributions. There is the possibility that the difference or discount from the tax, so to speak, could be made by the magnitude of 250 to 400 billion k. At least that is the gross assessment of what is being observed here, and it now reflects less. It's like all the government's merit tax for two or three and a half years, the state's gross extra taxes for three and a half years, which could be the difference between these two results financially. Regarding the background of the matter, it is necessary to review it a little because I'm going to make a partial explanation of both issues. I'm starting with what probably doesn't have to say that the sentence of the budgets in the autumn of 2008 was an inevitable operation, and here's a short reason in the committee's opinion. The country's currency supply was up. The land was totally isolated financially, in charge of foreign financial markets, and had spent two years. In 2006, we were dependent on foreign assistance in the form of the currency bar, and there was considerable uncertainty about the rest. In addition, when banks fell because of the huge growth trade in the previous years, people have often called the so - called snow - handed, there is no other choice. Whatever the case, we have been able to create the stability and economic benefits we have seen here. Then there is the fact that the seas followed the discontinuation of domestic capital movements, and people like pension funds stopped being able to invest abroad. When all of this is checked together, the demanion, or snowpanding, the currency balance of the building of fallen capital companies, and the fact that we put ourselves on a sea that has meant that, for example, we had a chance to make money. The pension fund for years has not now been able to invest abroad, it was clear that the solution to the problem, to the delinquency of the past, had to call for a complete, well - prepared approach. That was the conclusion, e.g. As early as 2012, the meeting committee proposed a letter to the presidents of all classes of the country. You see, it was a very effective consultation committee that needed work and that was a means of counseling the governments. Among other things, she suggested in one of her activities to the government, and she emphasized the following: It is obvious that we need a complete, complete solution. It's not a twit. These cases were then taken care of from the time the oceans were placed on. They were cleared in the fall of 2009. Then new investments were opened, and those who brought new investments into the economy would not be under the seas. They could, after some time sell them their investment again or naturally draw money from it. Of course, this was necessary, for living under the seas would have been unbearable if they had also taken to them a limited number of new investors into the economy that might have come, but probably not if it had been so. The first plan for delinquency was made clear, and it was adopted in the government in July 2009. It was based on the Council of Iceland's Bank and worked together with the International Cash Fund, so people were not wasting their time. Immediately, however, they turned to the task of living with the goats and to start preparing to see how to unwind them. Then, in March 2011, a new and much more detailed plan for decommissionation was adopted, and one completed plan may be called, in which it has been worked until this day. This is the first time that new and dramatic developments will take place. But long before the application of the 2011 elimination plan, people started working on the deportation problem. It was done in a variety of ways, and it should be mentioned first as the Avens transition, which, of course, were no more than a step in coping with the deportation device. There was an unprecedented situation where huge sums of money in Icelandic dollars had been staked in some sort of baggy of the blessed banks shortly before collapse, and as a result, the banks died in foreign hands. Above all, they were employed in cooperation with the Bethel bank in Luxembourg and the European Bank. It was successful to buy home, to buy money within the flocks, because the terms were now very good, huge sums, and this actually resulted in considerable profits as a trust fund, as well as the pensions. It will start right away to reduce the number of dollars in the hands of foreign people, with the situation disappearing, huge sums of money in the hands of foreign citizens. Then, an auction opened along the way with an investment plan so that they could buy a currency across from what others would bring and funded in the country. Then these events were met in the invitations. This trade, along with its individual business of the Federal Bank, is now more than halved. It was likely of the magnitude of 650,700 billion when it was the most right or during the collapse and was then more than 40% of the gross domestic product or, indeed, as it stood today, down to 300 billion today, about 15%. It's been achieved, and it's achieved through the last term with tremendous success. But the greatest change in law was March 12, 2012. Without a doubt, it was the most important single operation that had to do with the currency lords and not just them, in many ways all the economic restoration of Iceland from and by the sentence of the emergency law. It is just that, and it is yet to occur in history how important it was that the then - present government, as well as the Councilman, who deserves commendation when he deserves it, stayed awake, sensed the problem, and took these measures. Since then, everything has been built. Today, it is based on the fact that the currency balance in the bank can be handled in the current way. It has long been clear that there are a number of ways to mix up these materials. In fact, it's as if right from the beginning, and I'm not talking about since the 2011 development of the strategy is basically the possibilities of the situation that are now being transferred into law. It is an auction that has taken place and has solved much of the problem. It's some kind of taxation way, whether you call it an outlet or a stable tax, you just have to work this problem down by taxing it into a government fund. It is the way that demands are simply left behind in some sort of contracts or in the trades of their domestic estates, replacing them with green light and going out with an older one. And finally, it is the possibility that, in 2011, one part of this money could be placed into the economy for a long time and let time win it over many years. What's going on here and now? It's taxation pathway, stable tax. It is a forced agreement, a means of handing in sufficient value for them to remain neutral in the balance of payment. And that is a binding pathway built into both the stability pathway and the tax is that a part of the stability process is actually binding, e.g. in the foreign currency of the farms in the long term economy, seven to ten years, and part of the stable tax bill has already been able to take advantage of tax recovery in the form of long-term investing. Thus, the result is a mixture of exactly the same things that were included in the deduction program in 2011 with which the last government worked. Immediately after the change in law in the spring of 2012, the Ministry of Economics and the Government's Office began working on the problem and developing further suggestions on its solution. And from the beginning it was assumed that, for example, the Kingdom would receive a handsome share. in the value of national banks at the time of completion, that the Secret Bank of the Federal Republic of Nations would take over and work on the domestic property of the people. That's the way it would be taken. At the same time, the picture of how much the problem was related to living things was being explained. She did so gradually. Men may be tired of hearing about it, but I'm still going to say that once again, when I'm a minister of finance in late 2009 or early 2010, the leading experts asked: "What do people know about the currency when it's finished? the answers were not so strong. They said, "Well, not much." The feeling may be that it is not too uneven. Some of them may be just positive and others may be a little negative, but they could be equal. That's why it was a black hole. Hence, it is so naive, and it describes so much ignorance that speaking as men in 2009 or 2010 did not fully predict these sizes. How was this to be done when the requirements were not even set, when there were extreme uncertainty about the value of the libraries, and no proper mapping had been asked? It is not until 2012 that Iceland's spring bank, perhaps in part with the support and support of the International Cash Fund, will begin to receive this fairly complete picture. At any rate, I saw the first and best analysis of this, which actually drew the overall picture in the presentation of the Federal Bank in the autumn of 2012, when Sigríður, the daughter of Benediktsdóttir, a specialist in the bank's currency, brought in her presentation, which she updated and repeated repeatedly during her next losses. Since then, these sizes have been placed in the main order, the changes have been in the form of continuing to collect and increase property. That's the way it is. The stable tax, as I say, is simple, legal, and taxable in itself. There the argument is the big task and the tricky one, i.e. The justification for such an unusual tax, to place a gross tax, a clean possession tax of 39% on any value. Of course, I don't think there are very many cases of that in the tax account. However, in Iceland back then, several examples in their quest for reimbursement, such as the 6th and the 1960's and, of course, the fine wealth tax imposed by the former government. But this is a much deeper source of information. To make long cases short, it is our conclusion that the stable tax is a simple and clean operation to solve the problem of fallen financial companies. The tax and tax rates reflect an economic reality that exists in Iceland and on that basis it builds. While this is certainly a high tax burden, it is to be sure that there is no cost to the local population, the public, and the biographer of the country will solve this problem beyond what is available, the tax will go no further than that. Therein lies the key to the fact that taxes are in harmony with the problem, whether too or not. And if we believe that and trust that the tax I make is justified, it works out, of course, there's important evidence that the problem is and what it takes to solve it. When it comes to the contract route, it certainly has advantages that I'm not going to belittle, especially that the situation is resolved on the basis of an agreement and that legal uncertainty is destroyed as far as possible. It must always be taken into account if, as a result, the matter is resolved peacefully and there is no legal dispute thereafter. Then they know what they have, like a fine lawyer here in town, said in a black newspaper a few years ago: Wise men negotiate. Also, there is a lower risk of delays in the busy process, it is lost by the emergency contract process within a very difficult period of time. There is such a narrow limit that it has to be completed through its short contracts, to advance the stability spending within the appointed period, or to pay the tax. They can be reasoned on the stability process, the emergency process, that it strengthens the whole process, and that it does. The stable tax is better selected in view of the availability of the alternative. That's it. Together, this whole body is stronger than either, and it must, of course, be counted as the payable way. It also ensures financing and a measure of financial resources, which the tax stability pathway also works by the deduction forces. However, it must be said and repeated that the stability conditions have not been made public. It is a real challenge to figure out how it will go out forever and financially, although it is certainly possible to read about the proposals of the key agencies in the form of letters on the financial network. It's a fault, all right. While there may be evidence not to reveal the stability conditions publicly, there is a problem with the issue that there is no further information on these important factors and more transparent measures. There's no denying that. If we work together so quickly, as we can do, we must first mention the strange event that will occur in the Hare here at dawns when a tremendous fine and costly presentation is being made, but hardly a single word on the silent agreement and stability process that everything is about to become. It became clear this presentation date, as it was found that discussions with the key requirements had become mature that they raised their proposal for stability, in English, at the beginning, and more. The project management had come together, reviewed these proposals, and appreciated them adequately. And what does that mean in English? Of course, that means that it was very long ago. It may be true that these days were fast before some point, but this was the day that the decoration show was in the Wall where they were trying to sell the nation a picture of these matters as just a stable tax, and they talked about the figures and the sums in the state funds, and some went off and began to destroy them. But that is not the case. Of course, it was very strange. This and the fact that the demands of large farms clearly value the more favorable option of meeting conditions than of paying the tax, of course, to tell us a certain story, in which it contains a message. The strongest message in my opinion, in comparison with this, is that it makes the old banks the most important of all domestic property chooses to make stability money rather than pay the taxes. In the longest domestic holdings, therefore, it must go beyond the highest stability, but it would rather do so than pay the taxes. It may tell a story about how easy the stability process is on the other farms, so to speak, but both of these ways have their pros and cons. The wealth, or size, of what the State will end up with less money, as I have previously said, could be in the range of 2,250,400 billion, but it is far from the only thing that matters, and it is not at all to compare these paths together on just that basis because, of course, it does not matter so much less and perhaps even more so which is better to solve the problem and do it in the most reliable way. And there are other things that need to be evaluated and that can have national advantages, such as binding funds, insurance for the funding of the banks, unscrupulous financial resources, and so forth. However, if we try to draw this comparison together, we can say that the uncertainty of the financial outcome is all or almost all of them on the shortline. There is uncertainty, for the rest is relatively complete and even. The difference can take hundreds of billions of dollars. and the risks or benefits of the forced contract process are not only a question of financial importance but also: Are the stability proposals, as it seems to have developed, enough? Are we absolutely sure that they are able to resolve this problem completely and can be started so that their targets are met, the targets for the disposal of the seawaters, the development of the old ones, did not cause any further gang or economic instability in Iceland, and no further sacrifices to the country's standard of living are involved, but has been due to the fall of the banks, and is now known to be enough? Of course, much has been discussed about the provision of the funds, and I'd like to say that there was a very pleasant financial and business arrangement to take very responsible action there. Instead, in the opinion of the majority of the section and the Committee on the Stability Treaty, I refer to it. I welcome the adjustment proposal that the decision was finally making in addition to consultation with the National Bank and counselling from the Secret Bank, before any proposal for any of these funds should be made. I say, however, that I view the matter as an agreement to pay down the letter between the state and the Federal Bank, and in itself, the secretary of finance does not need to approach us with it because it is laid down here in the premise, and so all agree. But above all, I would classify the sum of money, where it should be appropriate. It's very important. This transnational conspiracy is important because Icelandic politicians are now going to be tested. Now will be tested if a person resists the temptation problem of making promises or making a pass on the funds that there may pile up on a closed account in the Federal Bank, since the nature and source of these funds must be borne in mind. This is what we're stuck with because of the huge wax - crumbling trade when they did nothing about it. There's hundreds of billions of dollars in the economy, and money was divided into dollars, and it's so locked up here. This is, in effect, the remnant of the ancient financial bills that financed mainly abroad but, of course, were domestic banking agencies, national legislation, and, as a result, have considerable property in this country, although high standards exist abroad. But how important it is that this arrangement succeeds, and hopefully it will help political charlatans not to get away with it, such as. In the end of the next election, they're going to be generous and generous and to draw from these funds on both sides. The economy can't stand it, and it's not like they're golden bars. These are crowns. This is a national legal system that is becoming a bit swollen because the relaxation is gone, thanks to the good economic benefits in Iceland from late 2010. It's a economy in which, during the course of the vaccination years, money was tripled and we still have the problem in the sense that there's too much of this money, too much money. Fortunately, much of it has not been in circulation, and it is about this matter, that capitals that have been shut down and not in traffic at the back of the accounts of old banks don't go from there and into the economy and set it on fire. The smaller part outcome is to recommend supporting this bill, but with far greater warnings, as it were, about the stable tax. I think I have made an explanation of them here on my case, and that includes, in particular, the fact that we do not have the official stability conditions and we do not know exactly what the government's contracts were, or the informal agreement, and the key requirements of the government. Of course, that will be the ríkisstjórn of the Davíð of Shimmer Sigmundur, the highest. Prime Minister, to have all the responsibility. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, it would be very helpful to have the points of the government in this room and be able to ask him about it: Is informal agreement with the demands on this stability policy? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u22	Mr. President. I have three questions. Senator. The first lie to the last word. When a senator asked if he had a contract with demanding workers, he asked. He himself put it so that an informal agreement with them was established, at least key requirements. Then I'll ask why. A member of Parliament: Is it true that we are in the face of the word? If I do a little rough and put it this way: Is the council being set up for something that has been taken care of? Second of all, what. A senator dealt well with the level of protection by spending the money that comes in through stability. He mentioned the letter that walked between the Federal Bank and the State. But above all, how can it be made for spending? I get it. A member of the Parliament so that his understanding of what is the common result of the Economic and Business Committee is that, above all, there is some way in which a financial and tax committee should be introduced? Then I want to say something about a speech. This was a wonderful speech, which was handled well and made very clear not only to the stable taxes but also to the conditions. I used to swing like a violin bow under that speech, first up: snoop. A senator went very far by destroying the doubts I have on the stability path. But then came a why. A senator with the full uncertainty of the way and the lack of even the stability of the budget or the strictness of the conditions. Then I'll ask why. A senator: But he expects me to follow him and the leader of my life, why. paritaprevir Is Páll the Árnason of Athenian, saying yes to this?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u23	Madam President. Yeah, I've chosen to say it so that you have reason to believe it. You cannot help but read in advance what happened on the days of the bill on Hawpu Day that, at the very end of that day, you would receive letters from all the large farms as well as tell that the project management had already taken over and reached them sufficiently but that the matter is much more mature than you would have wanted to attend even to this day. So I'll take a look at it or ask it, " Isn't this some sort of informal agreement? ' Not that there is going to be a return, thanks to the fact that it is the late bat who has the last word. First, he can determine if the stability agreements and post-finals are satisfactory, and then he is the one who has to be given the exception. Then there will also be the minister and the Economic and Business Committee. No binding agreements have been established so that no return will be made. But I assume that the key demands for communication are considered to be at least something that people would call a "gentlemen's agreement‡." There's a good chance they'll think there's a ◯goodwilla position in this regard and could get sour if it should be roughed up a lot. What range does the S.H.I.E. have to make further demands, etc. Of course, it is difficult to evaluate until tests are made. Second, the provision of the money? Yes, I believe that because men have not been able to point out just one other form of money that is not difficult but that paying up the bank account, I consider that all other arrangements needed to go on this channel in agreement with the Secret Bank and the Councilmen. Yes, I recommend that you do. A senator says yes, not because I don't also have my doubts about the stability process, as I wrote in my case. In spite of all of this, there are two parties and a part of a team, and that's just as much as for the reasons I think you have to take a stand on the whole package. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u24	It's like this, Madam President, that I've always had Tómas's manners in my life, and I've wanted to put my hand in the wound to believe. I don't take things like that that that I'm right, and I'm saying it just as it is, I don't feel comfortable that this case, which is possibly the biggest case that many members of Congress will ever face, will go through this council in two weeks. There are many things that are very vague about the case. With the senators sitting in the hall, there's no choice but to listen to the guidance of the few who sit on our behalf on a financial and business committee. Happily, the committee has come to a common conclusion, so you feel a little better about it. I can say it right here and now I understand the criteria for the stability tax, and I support it. I have much more doubts about the stability conditions. Why? Because I don't know who they are. I remember that we fought here in a rage for three years over another contract, which was fought by men for failing to perform the terms of the agreement, and they were submitted. Why is it not possible to do so in this matter? Why does this have to be wrapped in air or shadows? Why don't they just tell us about these things as they are? Of course it's a deal. This draws itself up to the fact that a contract has been completed, and we have not been reported as warning of the Council's approval, and the evidence indicates that it is not tested. Then, about the arrangements of the sheep, hombre. A senator explained that we had a common understanding. The money can be used to zero the letter, no more than that, without coming to the committee and thereby to the council. But then I ask why. A senator: If this money can be spent only for a very long time, why don't we take it together to put it in a special fund, similar to the Norwegian oil reserve, and keep it for the future, let it grow? Then future generations can benefit from that blessing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u25	Madam President. I've got a lot of respect for that, and I think it's a good idea. A senator learns Tómas's method, as he says, and wants to put his hand in the wound so that he can believe. In fact, it is good to have those here who ask critical questions and let them have other men to reason and give the answers. It is true that there are certain things that are unclear when it comes to the forced agreements and stability plans, and it is difficult to understand on the other hand the financial outcomes of the one side of the state, and so natural, also the other, that they are entirely sufficient to achieve the goal of the bill. In that regard, I hope that in this respect we have a detailed opinion of the committee. paritaprevir Páll's Árnason and mine are more helpful than the rest. We have applied ourselves to try to cover the matter thoroughly on several pages. And I have to say in terms of the stability conditions that, of course, you would have rejoiced that they had been published, and we asked why they weren't to be published. Our answers may not have been clear, but we sensed that something was sensitive to publishing them or that they were published in detail. Perhaps it is thought that when the steward receives the suggestions and on that basis, he will have a little room for it, and on that basis he will be better able to see that it is fully satisfactory and even ask for changes if necessary. In fact, it is not really what I rely on in the stability process of making progress that, despite all my efforts, the cow bank continues to give its consent. And it must be so, if he discovers a wave somewhere in the bids, he can mean something to it. However, the political scope may be limited by the fact that if a key requirement is considered to be an informal agreement or a gentleman's agreement, it may all go into trouble or lose control, and if the contracts are passed in the list of demands, then so on. But I believe that cooperation or the presence of the Council Bank is also very important in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u26	A respectable president. Thank you for your history of minor opinion. I cut it at the end of the day. A senator pondered these two ways that we can so call, i.e. The tax route and the stability process, comparing the sum immediately to the introduction of the committee's list of smaller items. The amount of money is set aside, with a measure of importance being placed in place. Hv. A senator asked: Is it enough to do with the stability process? I'd like to ask the senator if he can agree with me that it is not necessarily similar in his character to equalize the tax and this stability. The tax, for example, is supported by the swelling property of the broilers. As for the stability progress, because this has been repeatedly described that the conditions of stability are not in the tablework of some model, there is the speech of a number of sources - and I'm righting it, I see it at the Office of the Ministry's Home Office - the Control Committee on the Emissions Day after the discovery of a fancy in Harape, as it was said. For example, I see that it will be used to promote the sale of Anion's bank and that the Council, the Council of Copenhagen, is the means to reimburse government funds for Arion's foreign bank in foreign currency. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agreed that factors such as this may have the effect of not comparing these capital hills, as is done in my introduction to the committee opinion? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u27	Madam President. Yes, I agree, it's much more complicated than then comparing these paths to the extent that it is usually only fair or human beings want to do it, which is made clear in our committees. In much more detail, it is precisely that this comparison serves only limited values, first of all because if we believe the objective of these actions that they are not for the sake of a wealth of money, we should not be too preoccupied with it but rather the other, i.e. They'll solve it. Second, there is a significant difference because this net is pure tax with two long - term binding options and bank funding. The stability process, however, is much wider. It involves returning the direct value to the state, free money, its giving of the requirements collections and diffusions, its exchange of sales value to the banks, their difference by whether or not they are sold within the country or abroad, etc. Of course, they are far more complex and can be said to go beyond the stable tax, which only enters the state and then the two deductions. Of course, all of this needs to be kept in mind when comparing it. Of course, these too are fundamentally different types of actions. One is forced tax; the other is an optional way that the demands of the crew themselves have to agree and that they will be gone only if more of them want to. They thus have no claim to anyone, for they were the ones who went to the district court and asked him to accept the contract and asked the Secret Bank to confirm that it was adequate, etc. And we know what that means in human language. I want to be completely faithful to all of this when we discuss these two different paths, and I think I am and we are at our committee party. But it does not change the enormous difference between the financial outcomes of the living at the top of it, not just with the financial outcome as such, but in trying to understand it; why is it so great? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u28	A respectable president. It never happened, though, that I would not bring up this assembly at the end of the conference of Presidential Government, and now it is out of necessity. [[Taken out of: a filibuster.]] In my introduction earlier today to the Commission's review of the greater part of the Economic and Business Committee of the Management Board, I mentioned in connection with the adjustment proposal made by the Committee to C-Service 1. which are authorized, the committee proposes a loan for the broilers. I mentioned, however, that if financial companies are involved in breaking up therapy, they have an active financial share of 29. a law on finance companies on such loans. At the same time, I also insisted that the loans could conform to the rules of currency laws and new legal requirements do not include the exception of the legal legal requirements of currency. For some reason this is not stated in the Committee's own opinion, but I will request that this appeal be added to the committee opinion in the way that the Council allows the Committee to print the committee opinion. [[The president calls.]] I wanted to let this one be mentioned here under this team.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u29	A respectable president. First, I want to describe the satisfaction of the work that has been carried out on these issues of the Economic and Business Committee. It is a sin, however, that the government groups were not to take over our terms at the beginning of June of the month and complete their affairs, as if it had been so easy to do rather than put us in a position to be working on this project with little time for committee meetings at the same time as here was a meeting on nothing. It would have been better and better if the committee had completely been able to focus on this matter. I would like to comment on these matters and intend to discuss them together, although, of course, it is possible to do so in two ways. I'd like to start with the background. We're in our common minority party on the matter of forced agreement, okay? paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon and me, leading the case. I find it very important to keep it in place, because it must be said, just as it is, that the declarations of government leaders and their representatives in this case have not brought with them much generosity toward those who had previously dealt with this complex matter and even minimized the previously employed work in that area. That's the way it works. Instructed and quoted by the government's advisers, Sigurður Hannesson, that no part of the 2011 plot was found on the worn - out market. That's exactly right, for it had not yet been completed, and it would have been as smart as talking about them in the program as any other subject that did not come under the currency capital. It is also true. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's mask traced back to 2010, as late as the year 2010, was quite uncertain about the currency of these pairies, and the impact of their decommissionation on the prevention. It is then in late 2011, and at the beginning of 2012, as human vision begins to focus more on the factors, followed by the shift in March 2012 when the foreign property of the swellingers is dropped under the head of currency and the situation created today to cope with this, and of course, set requirements in order to protect the citizens from the use of the European public and the modern economy from severe pneumonia. Then began work at the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs to prepare the measures to cope with the swelling. One of the first things men looked at until then, and we do well in our joint committees, that was, in a detailed analysis of the pressures that the domestic property of the world would bring on payment and provide suggestions on possible solutions there, some of the scenarios that would be both then the highest level. The secretary of finance, Katrín Júlíusdóttir, made an announcement in interviews, and noted that at the 2013 Annual Meeting of the Federal Bank, in 2013, as well as at the U.S. bank manager, at the beginning of the 2013 hearings, it all appeared in public. In these scenarios the government was expected to become a secure share in the sales of banks, and it was expected that the Sentencing of national assets from the swelling farms would be taken in exactly the same way as is expected to be in the solution that is now known as a stabilisation of the labour agreements. The biggest difference was that the demands of the bank were expected to waive their property and the state to gain a more secure advantage from their potential increase in value as well as based on the eviction tax as the general forced action to push out the demands, which will become more developed and known and safe for use than for other means. It is therefore very strange to hear the highest voice. Secretary of finance reports that no plans were made when he took over the Ministry of finance. Of course it's not true. In the spring of 2013, experts who worked on this case in the past government found with the presidents of the government, informing them of all the work done, presenting to them all the diagnostics that had been carried out. It simply is not reasonable to promote such matters. I'm gonna mention it here because I think it's a little too boring for you to discuss. I would have wished for rich generosity on the part of government leaders at this crucial point in the past in view of the fact that the members of the administration have always had the perfect knowledge, or perfect knowledge, of the best course of action in this matter. May I recall our wrestling here in the fall of 2011 when they insisted on having as short a period of time on the currency lords as possible, and we fought them for weeks and months because it wasn't about coming that we could have a long time frame on the head of currency, which any counsellor said would be absolutely necessary to negotiate with the demands of any knowledge, the duration of which would have to be relatively temporary, but in any way would have a very long window, so that it would be more likely that men would go off with some discount. So we didn't make it, so we ended up shortening the planned payload time. I put in a bill that estimated that the time of the tides arrived at the end of 2015, and it's a little fun in view of where we are now, and we agreed on in the fall of 2011 to shorten that time to the end of 2013. It was then part of the work being done at the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs in the months of 2013 to provide a bill to eliminate these deadlines completely and to prevent future problems. They were living for the better, once and again, for the ability to push out men. Then it is worth remembering that the currently existing governmental groups did not support the change in law in 2012. Perhaps they did not realize the nature of the matter, but in any case, they were on the wrong side of that vote. I reiterate, because what I say here, I would have received a little more generosity on their part in this discussion. As for the stable tax itself and the forced agreement route, it has been observed in the treatment of the case for the Committee and on official discussion that, of course, this is a very high tax rate, and it is not simple to support a 39% ownership tax. It is nearly a product of property, and there is plenty of evidence to show for such an amount of tax. That is why you also understand very well that governments were right up to the beginning of this year, working with the idea of enfilm, which is exactly the idea that we had been working on since 2011 as a solution to this problem, and it is not until the end of the month now, it is not until February, March, that the government decides to experiment with this stable tax. What is the key to his claim is that these high tax rates can be reasoned, and especially that they are based on some material ground that can stand and thus prevent courts from believing that this is an unjust recording of property on the owners of the demands. I believe that valid evidence has been submitted to the work of the Committee for the decision. I'm at a committee party and I support the Commission on the stable tax bill, and I think it's very important. Thus, in these circumstances the level of payment needs to be estimated, and because this is the case, it's because there's been a debate about whether we were in front of an object or if the state had been signed by contracts with the demands, however, it's all clear; they've already reached the upper limit of the tax world, more than 39% will not be done, at least the foundation that has been set. During the presentation in Hörpe, I found that much joy to go, especially in view of the information that has later been presented, because there were huge numbers of 800 billion and 1,200 billion. But the fact of the matter is, when you look at the numbers behind it, that if the tax was placed on all sides and deductions, it would return 640 billion. Then, when it was announced that the concept of forced contracts, to encourage demands on the authorities to negotiate with the tax, was to be opened and that if it were to be used, it would lead to a reduction in everyone, but the contributions would likely be different and would depend on the composition of each one and on how much they would need to contribute. So, considering what we have seen, it is clear that the direct contribution of the citizens to the state through the stability process is very similar to that taken up in the films designed in the last government of 2012 and 2013. We are talking about in gross financial terms, as we have seen in the official discussion, that direct donations, money money contributions, either in the form of cash or securities, would be anywhere from 300 billion, but not necessarily more than 400, and in the course of the 300 to400 would be the most likely result. That's what's in the stability process. There is less money in the stocks than then, but there are other factors, which, of course, have the material significance that they can help to cover these farms, but they do not include any financial contributions that can justify happy declarations of some 800 billion or 1,200 billion, as presented in the Great Expo. Thus, it can be concluded that among the things considered to be a financial contribution on the part of the population, if everything remains in contracts, it is considered to be a stability of their population extensions, an extension of foreign loans to national banks of hundreds of billions. It is not in any way money that goes into a government fund and can be used to justify the grueling statements of 800 or 1,200 billion in a common fund. It's simply an extension to a loan that the demands give the domestic banks. Similarly, a reimbursement of new banks is said to be due on evasive loans paid in foreign currency in order to ensure the stability of their currency. It is true that if the government could use money in the currency supply, but against that money, it is already a debt and the state of that money, has lent them, and as a result, if we give up that amount of 100 billion in this way into the currency supply, it is not a contribution from the bank to the currency supply or from the claimors into the currency supply, it is simply paying off a debt that has already been made. That's why it seems to me when it's the highest. The prime minister comes here and speaks as if he did in answer to a question from me the other day when he said that a stable supply could work with much more than 800 billion - it is with such accounting effects that can be calculated into it. Among other things, I have seen some calculations in which even the bank tax is counted inside. Well, then, people have to give themselves the conviction that the bank tax will be illegal, and the state would have to repay him in dollars, and they would later look outside. It is by such tricks that they are trying to talk themselves into some 800 billion, and making such a mess is of no benefit to anyone. It is simply a matter of fact, it is a much smaller amount of money, the money paid by the crew to discuss to the State if the road to stability becomes stable. And the big question that we face is, Are they enough? It's a challenge when we face up to the fact that we have a reasonable need to add taxes to 39%, which results in 680 billion, and then we see stable conditions that should produce comparable results but that include money transfers, directing money transfers from farms to the range of 300 to 1,400 billion, not more. Of course, this distinction needs to be explained, and I'm trying to make it out of this speech chair. It comes by using the tools we always said should be used in 2011, 2012, and 2013, extending commitment, moving uncertain property to the State, etc. It is not exactly that it involves a financial donation, and in some cases it is, as mentioned earlier, the speedy payment of the debt that the banks owe to the Sentencing Bank. A respectable president. What then matters most about this matter, to this whole reason, is the budget for the money that thus flows into the budget. Let us assume that the path of the stability proposals has gone and that we are talking about a government contribution of up to 400 billion, there is probably nothing much more we're talking about. That, however, is a huge amount of money, and as was done well earlier. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon is, in fact, the State's debt to the Sentencing Bank that could be paid up without any impact on the economy in other respects. It would, however, save up to 10 billion interest dollars per year right away. Then there are other methods, e.g. if there are any local requirements, they can be transferred to the Pentateuch of the State's Pentateuch and in other ways perhaps some property may be planted. However, hundreds of billions will remain, and it is vital that we do not return to traffic in this country in a direct way. In the joint financial and business committee's assessment of the stability of the tax, it is considered that all of us believe that this is a key premise to achieve the objective of the bill, that the funds that flow into the state's budget will be set up in line with economic and financial stability goals and that it should also be used by the changing manufacturer for a responsortation agent. The purpose is, not to raise the trust fund to cover the financial expenses, but to provide the basis for the disposal of capital resources. We emphasize that the money fund is now inert in domestic financial contributions, and it is important that money is not set aside in the increase of government fees because such a provision would contribute to the increase in the amount of money in traffic and that it will have an added impact on the economy. We're making a change to 1st par. the bill and I'm not going to go to a den with the idea that I'd wanted to make more changes. We assume that in a bill for financial gain, the estimated treatment and provision of these funds are already said in the bill and Minister to consult the Sentencing Bank on an evaluation of its impact on economic and financial stability. We believe that this agreement with the Federal Bank is important, stressing that its guidance will be followed, but we add that in the preparation of the budget, the Committee will introduce the Minister's plans for the handling and handling of the funds, and it will go into the law. In this way, we are making plans for a simple budget to be used. A financial committee cannot, in order to close some gap between 2 and 3rd. For example, money goes into the budget without getting in this way. We are trying to subsidize the money, so that the funds do not have direct access to it and thus reduce the problem of temptation. I agree with the committee's opinion that this was a monotonous and cross - political position on the committee, but I would have wanted to go further. I would have wanted to put in the law some further form, even more formalities to make this easier, and I would have wanted, as I have requested to the heads of the administrations, that there would be a formal agreement between all classes at the General Assembly on the handling of this budget. I don't find it particularly encouraging to know that the directors of the board, which neither of them honor us with their presence here in the treatment of this case, would not have approved that idea. I would naturally feel that we were united in binding our political parties in the same way as there are examples in neighboring countries that we would not approach this money and make a commitment to keep it out of the general administration of the State, unless specific measures are taken. The track frightens, a respectable president, and it was reported from all sources, analysts, business interests, that there is a high risk of getting involved in this money. The results of the operation will be zero if they do. If tempted to do so, social damage can be devastating. I repeat to fear for that, as some researchers noted, this is a nation that has always been tempted. We are talking about a people who have always been tempted. When something like this developed, the Icelandic political powers have always been tempted to make short - lived decisions. So it would have been necessary to try to bind it further, and I'm very worried that it didn't succeed. For the Committee it was reasoned that it was important for the Navy to do this, he would give the opinion. Well, there's now a way to get him. I just remind you that this summer, when advertised the post from the bank manager, he received it only by writing that he would leave if the government would change the law on the Council Bank. The World Cash Fund has made a special comment to the government's plans, repeated in its assessments here during the last winter worrying about reevaluation of law on the management of the Federal Bank and stressed the importance of the professional management of the Federal Bank. And in what position is the bank manager who has had to sign this to get the job to go as soon as the government changes its administration of the National Bank to resist pressure? What if the government had changed the government, as the government has repeatedly declared willingness to do and enter three of its póttisms? What advice, then, comes from the Federal Bank? I'd like to say this here because the steps are frightening, and it's so easy to change the government of the United States, as clearly defined and the sincere will of these government groups is in order to reduce its independence and to increase its political power. As a result, there is a particular concern. But what we're going to achieve by making the new arrangement here is that we will ensure a measure of delay. So, as I traced earlier, it is not possible for a simple payment of budget within the council to reach out for that money. They must be made aware of their provision in the budget itself, it stands in the law, and before that, the minister must take a materialistic view of whether and how he intends to make arrangements for the money. He's got to get the opinion of the World Bank, and he needs to present it to the Economic and Business Committee. So I picture it as at least a five-month process before being presented with a budget bill. That is how I would say, for example, that if a minister of finance planned to use this for the 2016 budget, he would have fallen on time to do it, in a gross way, where a financial bill will be submitted on September 10. Of course, he still has the opportunity to do so for the 2017 budget, but then, as I say, this is the few months process that needs to go through, and we all have the opportunity to delay that process. I would have chosen a formal agreement, and I am convinced that it would have been better for Iceland's credit rating, for belief in the Icelandic economy, because, for example, it would have been better. The foundation around the World Bank last year and this crisis by the government in his professional management has not led to an increase in trust in the economy. Of course, it's no fun, and it's been very uncomfortable in a general discussion that the International Cash Fund repeated in its last winter has encouraged Iceland's government to be careful of professional work practices in reviewing laws on the management of the National Bank. Iceland is not supposed to be in a position to be regularly accessing faultfinders from the International Cash Fund in that subject. A respectable president. I'm not gonna have this any further. I reiterate our determination to support what is good in this matter. However, the equipment is responsible for the government, and we have had very little time to study the matter. It is hard to believe that, as with the demands and other factors, humans do not have a new board of consultations with a currency school to inform us about the details of these cases and especially to keep deliberate secrets of various factors. Of course, there's a rush with a permit of this sort, so I'm in English. A president, a local negotiation, has been spoken to demanding workers, has not been spoken directly to, but the representatives of the State have spoken to them and have told them what the state is ready to close the matter. There's a basis for a deal. Let us hope that all of this was well - known. We want to trust the government on that basis, but I rest assured that I am deeply concerned that the equipment for what happens to this money is not enough and that we are not ensuring sufficient financial and economic stability as we might be doing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u30	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Páll the Árnason of Athenian before his speech At the same time, I'd like to start before asking a question. prominent men and senators, first of all. paritaprevir And the president of the Economic and Business Committee, Sigurjónsson Sigurionson, for his history and history. paritaprevir Sigríður Á. Andersen, who gave a commission on a bill on financial companies that are forced to negotiate and also aggressively. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon for his history, but all of them take their place. The Economic and Business Committee. I'd like to thank them all for the cooperation of the Committee and for the solidarity of the committee, as presented here. Senators. Hv. paritaprevir Páll's Árnason years were very careful about the history of the matter, but he was and why. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, which is called a lesser portion, is, of course, jointly with the Commission on the whole. He covered both the timeline and the history of the past. A senator is a member of the government during the last term, and he knows the evolution of this case. Hv. A senator made good progress over the objective that economic stability will not be threatened, and it is also well explained by this inconspicuous decrease in the share provided. I want to ask you why. A senator with regard to the legal application he made, whether he is not sufficient to ensure that these goals are met.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u31	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. I don't think the hang-up is as rich as he could have been, I'm gonna be completely honest with it. I mentioned it on the committee, as well as on the directors of the board of directors and representatives of the members of the Commission, that I had chosen an additional political agreement. I would also have chosen more detailed laws. However, I interpret the legal requirements presented here in a way that is as if I previously explained that this financial contribution cannot be ratified by a simple financial budget at the council, so that a financial committee can, for example, be found on the basis of a financial committee. I didn't go to get this money just between discussions. I also interpret it so that a minister is bound to a few months before the budget is submitted, and if the Sentencing Committee gives the opinion and it happens to a financial and business committee, it will be recognized if the Navy bank is completely gone and men have managed to eliminate it from professional management; it will happen to the committee in such a way that it can present a viewpoint and hopefully not all men will be gone without it. Of course, it is difficult in itself to put the whole structure of a law code into the future. And the theory has been followed here at the General Assembly, which I basically disagree that no limit of the Constitutional rights of members of Congress to submit bills, including May they make adjustments that conflict with laws. It's a theory that has, unfortunately, been applied here, last in this winter, with unprecedented changes in frame design. As a result, I acknowledge that in view of the current attitude here at the council, it is not easy to set a legal law that inhibits the right of members of Congress to allow money in this way or the right of the government to legalize it in another way in the future, since general law cannot, of course, drum up other general laws. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u32	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir PállÁrnasonÁrni What questions will be considered in the next article? It's important that there's a political agreement on this, that I share that opinion, and that it's a monopoly on how to handle it. It is safe to assume that this is in the Law on Strategies Treaty at 1 Peter 3: 1. ..of the funds that may fall in on taxation. According to this bill, they will enter a government fund, and the provision should be in line with the basic objectives that economic stability will not be threatened and economic well-being and public goods will be guided. This is the key and the question. The speaker made good use of the changes and arrangements made by the committee for the harmony of the committee, between these two primeors we will discuss. Hv. A senator introduced this moral problem and that it would be difficult to guarantee this by law. I'd like to ask them what. A senator's speculation about how we can best guarantee political solidarity to meet the obligations and goals we so discussed on the committee. The Economic and Business Committee, which consists of these primary sites from this process, appoint members to proceed with a form of contract, they need to assess it, the Minister's Council and consultation with them. The Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u33	A respectable president. Of course, a good step toward that course is like that one. A senator moved here, a member of the House of forwarders, one of the members of the board, and he speaks for his part in no uncertain terms. I would have thought that another donation could have been the agreement of all classes on a joint declaration. Another way would have been if it had been the highest. Ministers, secretary of finance, and prime minister would now have honored us with their presence, addressed this discussion, and made a statement on behalf of their groups. And I don't have the faint hope that this can happen, and I want to direct it to the point. A senator may not be able to influence his chairman so that we may have it in that way at 3rd. The point is that the prefects will come and make the declaration of this material. That could be a very good thing to do. The temptation problem is real. V.E.G. On a Monday morning, the Secretary of finance insisted on how important it was that these funds not go into the economy. He held a meeting on Friday afternoon at Valhalla for the tax reductions that lay ahead. It took just five days for him to break up spiritually. It just sums up how dangerous it is. It's so easy later to convince yourself that the situation is just everything, quite different from what we anticipated at the beginning of July 2015 when we were accepting it. And I can totally imagine hearing about the budget after a year, in election winters, deciding that people didn't realize that it couldn't be done, yes, of course it's all now, all of course, all the other circumstances, completely changed, and it's all right. And they'll have been shoveled out of the Secret Bank, filling it all with some political music, and they'll say, "Yes, yes, it's all right. It is this danger that is awake, it is really there, and we must protect ourselves from it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u34	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for the talks being conducted here. It's been a good, balanced discussion. I'd also like to welcome the work that has clearly been good on the Economic and Business Committee, and welcome the obvious solidarity that seems to exist on this subject. It is of utmost importance that this state of affairs, which spreads solidarity, is one of the biggest issues, not just this council, but this terms. It is very important how to cope with the disposal of currency plants and how to achieve a final resolution related to the fallen financial system and that it can result in the spread of solidarity in the council hall. It clearly strengthens Iceland's position and government funds in all the ahead. I'd also like to say that I think that this case was well held up in this government's time and that it worked well on an economic and business committee. But I can't refuse to mention just a few things that were often held here during the last term but are now less than done. It was often claimed that unless we walk in the European Union, there could be no step-by-section of a currency charge unless we were taking up Euro. I think it's shown up now and it's gonna show up that it can be done. And in the strength of the independence and sovereignty of the nation and having an independent currency here, we are taking that step. We need only look to the news today that comes to us from the Greek problem, where they are placed under the European cash bank and see the news coming from there. We only need to watch Ireland in this context and we'll see what Iceland's getting up. We see how the land is developing, and we can also see in our conversations today that people are primarily concerned about how it affects the wealth of state and the problem of temptation. paritaprevir The Árni Páll's Árnason years came on, and more people came in here, saying that the funds in the Kingdom Fund will be used in some way. That's because the country itself, Iceland, is rising and we're always seeing it better and better. I'd also like to, as a result of the discussion here, agree that the aim of these bills is primarily to ensure economic stability. The matter has been handled well. When it comes to talking about the possibility of the swelling being successful, instead of the taxation route, it has to be kept in mind, and I think that it has been repeated by all those who have spoken here, from both the greater parts and the smaller parts, that this must go through the Bank of Iceland, then to the Minister, and then the committee has added and strengthened the Senate's office and added to the Economic and Business Committee. A committee study says, with the permission of a respectable president: ▪ The Court has a right to the understanding that we shall evaluate the request of the paralegal regime to be in accordance with Article 1. The bill considered economic stability and public interest targets, but this leads to a loss in currency reserves and in public life rates. The Commission also insists that, in accordance with the currency laws, the bank shall only be granted to agreeing with a minister and, in the exception of a minister's presentation of their economic impact on the economic and business committees. This is a time to ensure the assembly's arrival on this matter. It is also to ensure that public interests will be cared for, and it has been observed by all speakers today. It is important to reiterate it, especially the case itself. Then I want to come into what has also been said and to focus on how people are going to use it. It's mainly a stable tax, as I said, and it's been traced here on human case. This is not thought of as a tea - picker. This is primarily a stable tax that ensures stability in Icelandic society. Of course, it is important that the funds that make up the vast amount of money not be used to disrupt stability. I agree with those who have expressed themselves about it, and I believe that with the changes the committee has proposed in this aspect, they are strengthening it further. Of course, this should be a cause for rejoicing. There is nothing more important in Icelandic society than to ensure steady and constant growth in the economy, which is built up by a real increase in the value and the like. That's why I believe the committee did very well in terms of these changes. I'd like to say at the end and again that I'm sure that if we weren't an independent nation in our own country with our economic policies that we can manage ourselves, with our independent bank and our own currency, we wouldn't be in the situation we are now, preparing to get rid of here a currency head, to prepare Iceland to be a country that will soon rise from an economic collapse. I still reiterate that all we have to do is look to Greece and its post, to look to the requirement for nationalization of debt, etc. This is much easier for us, and it is, in the strength of our independence that we are rising up today. So, of course, as soon as I welcome the cross political union that seems to exist on this matter because it is important for the matter itself and for Iceland and is also important for what lies ahead, we must, of course, put the popular bitch aside.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u35	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the talk and the good words he had for supporting the main objective that these funds would not be used for the general cost of the State and that they would unite to resist the temptation to join them in an election. Hv. On the other hand, a senator made up my opinion and those of others who have said that it is not possible to eliminate the full amount of Icelandic dollars, that I have said many times. Yet, there is no administrative body who claims that this operation is being abolished. Secretary of the budget is talking about the release of Hash. That is certainly true, this is the release of certain problems. We always had plans for this exact operation, as I thoroughly explained in my case earlier. In fact, we had an operation that we were ready to perform in January to February 2013, and it was introduced to the world's highest level. Secretary of finance for the presidents of the politicians. V.E.G. The current agricultural minister Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson said it was a treason. Therefore, it was not attacked before elections, for it could not be at peace for that action. Of course, we were ready to attack her. The procedure was very similar to what is now being done, sort of, and we were ready to do it even if we weren't recording euro, because it's not about that. Etru does not have to be recording to achieve this result. It is merely working on a position that we created by slaughtering the foreign property of the swellingers, and this development is absolutely possible. However, the course of money remains to be determined when this problem and other problems remain unsolved. So, what do we put up with? The U.S.S. Bank has placed the possibility that there will be no total freedom from currency. As a result, there will be rapid declines and, as a result, certain social barriers will continue. [[The president calls.]] Men will try to call them something else, but the seas will not be completely taken away by the top of the Icelandic crown. That's Iceland's Secret Bank policy today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u36	A respectable president. For stabilisation measures. I said it's important that we do everything we can to maintain stability in Icelandic society. This is true of this discussion, financial debate, tax talk, and all the discussion that has to do with this, because the balance is the most important thing. I know that at some point in life, if people intend to take advantage of this money, or whatever it becomes, they will always be looked to stability because it is the most important thing. This is highlighted in these matters, and the committee has strengthened them further. In terms of the currency capital, the European Union and the euro, it was repeated during the last term primarily by the United States and its members and the current council that no currency head could be excluded without a euro. If the nation wanted to eliminate currency, we would have to march into the European Union and adopt the euro. It is widely available in articles, interviews, conferences, etc. But now another land, Greece, which is with Euro, has come to the head of currency. But because we are a nation of our own and because we have a greater law code, a stronger part than Greece's countries, and we have taxation power, and we have an independent bank that Greece does not have, we can go forward. And if they have the courage and courage to do so, and the nation cooperates to use the vital factors we have as a nation, we can succeed. That's what we're getting out here today. So I was celebrating, and especially because all classes of members agree that we can achieve them in the power of an independent currency, an independent bank, and an impaired legal authority. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u37	A respectable president. Hv. A senator must be handled properly. Not once in a single instance, members of the United States or its Ministers in their last term said that there could be no solution to the payment problem caused by the fallen banks other than to join the European Union, just never at any time. What we have said is the fact that even if this problem is solved and all other problems, a certain kind of ocean will continue to grow. There is a solidarity today between the Federal Bank and the Secretary of finance, and both sides are talking about the promise of high - speed barriers and national response rules and something like that, but these are, of course, obstacles to free capital flows. That's what the United States Parliament and its Ministers said during their last term, and that's true even today. The late bank has not changed policy on that subject, nor has the government of any kind. Senator. Hv. So a senator is not supposed to try to create some half-truth from our words here during the last term, and there is no need for him to be ruining the atmosphere at this fine meeting in a discussion of this fine affair with such gypsy. However, with regard to the state of Greece and the situation in Europe, 2008 financial failure and its release has been a major challenge in many parts of Europe. But this is certainly not so that the euro was a source of desensitization, on the contrary, has been the key to restoration in many countries that have reached even faster demands than we, though, have done well. Over the years, we have been able to reverse the situation with less power of money in many parts of the world than there was. And it is not as if it is still quite peaceful to be seen here and not satisfied with the rise in the prices of the loans, nor is it a loss of pay that led to the fall of the Icelandic crown. We will see it as a whole when the dust sits down. [[The president calls.]] The fact is, we can certainly take action in the power of an independent currency, but we are also left behind other problems because of a small currency. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u38	A respectable president. It was not my intention to destroy the fine peace that prevails in the chamber on this important matter. [[But you already have.]] What I stressed was that it was important for the Senate to stand together in this matter, and I welcomed it. [[Prominent Prime Minister?]] I just said my opinion. I think, and I think that many people would agree with me, and I thought it was by then. A senator without my intention to claim that, in the power of the independence that we have on the legal authority, about the tax reformal authority that we suggest will be used in this matter and regarding the independence of our bank, we can go further in protecting Iceland's interests in such matters as this than to form a country like Greece. We get a lot of news from these days, from an emergency meeting of Greek people with European bank managers, etc., because they don't have the independence they have from Iceland. [[Up front.]] I was simply describing my view. It was not meant to disrupt peace or anything else. But this is my opinion, and I believe that many people agree with me and that after we have seen the problems the Greeks are going through, they do not fully have the three points I mentioned earlier, i.e. legal options, taxation options and non-profit bank options.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u39	Madam President. It goes anyway. Ásmundur Einar the Daðason Ladyson is very pleased to come here to an artificial banquet and surely I think it is necessary to give up this good party on the progressive tax of the Future Party. However, it is quite wrong. A senator said that members of the United States said that currency capitals could not be removed without joining the European Union. It doesn't make any sense. A senator in general what needs to be done so that a nation can walk in the European Union. For example, one of the things to be done is the guarantee of a free access to capital flow. Therefore, one of the reasons why we could walk in the European Union is that the problems that arose from the capitalists, had been solved, and taken care of. That's what I thought. A senator knew because this is fundamental. Without it, we could not have gone to ERM II and therefore could not have picked up the euro. This needs to be totally clear. On the other hand, I'm surprised at the tone of a speech. A senator likes to go the way we're going here, because it's against what the forward party has said. The advance team has always said that Iceland's interests would be kept to the limit. It has now been made very clear in this discussion that the stable tax is clear and has no risk to take it, but it has been demonstrated and accepted, including When co-administered, the risk was increased. paritaprevir Frosti the Sigurjónsson son, that there is a certain uncertainty about going through the stability program. Why is it so important that the advance party do it? Why is it that the advance team, which was going to help the demands, gives them a discount of 400 billion? In fact, it can be shown that under certain circumstances it is nearly 500 billion. How is it that the advance party and the highest? Prime Minister, Sigmundur Davíð, the son of Gunnlaugsson, has taken the lead in making atonement for the demands? [[Up front.]] It's the biggest tax claim in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] How is this compatible with the word of the forward party and what? A senator? [[Take it up to 50 percent.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u40	A respectable president. I have to start with the first part of the question question date. A senator with a view to the position in Europe. I reiterate what I said before, and I think that I agree, that, in the power that we have the legal authority, taxation authority and the independent bank, and we have the courage to apply it, we are in a very different position than we are to form the ideal land of Greece that now faces much trouble. We're in a very different position. How sad it is to observe what is happening there to the public, to see how the European Talent and other members put pressure on having Greece cut down to the welfare of their means, to make Greece privatize international airports, ports, transportation plants, and other things. I got it. I got it. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson to learn more about these matters and to observe them, because I think more people would agree with me on this. About the second part of the query question. A senator involved in the stability tax and the stability process. In Icelandic society, what is being guaranteed is primarily stability. There's a certain stability being guaranteed, and that's the big thing. No one has said in this discussion or in the bill that the aim is primarily income - source because the aim is basically stability. To take one part out there like a cot. A senator reveals a misunderstanding on the big picture, there are six factors that should be fundamental to this matter, but why. A senator takes out only one of them. I want to say it again and to reiterate that it's about achieving a certain stability. We've always said that it was the goal to achieve such things, so something else stated here is a misunderstanding or, like, a misunderstanding. A senator spoke here with tremendous determination to destroy the fine solid solidarity and the fine spirit that prevails in this beautiful hall. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u41	Madam President. I think of myself as a critic in this group, here, none of them criticize, even why. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson is wearing this, I think he's losing his X-ray glasses. Hv. A senator is to resist the temptation to use a Greek mourning that resembled riding on my shoulder blades. All of us agree with them. However, later the Greeks had a capital capitalist. Not long ago, another European state landed in a crisis and put a capital head, but it has been removed. But, Madam President, what? In the longest law, a senator tried to spend his time on something other than to answer the question: Why did the forwarding party not go forth at all right now? It's a matter of time before this discussion that the stable tax is going to be a nostalgic to Iceland's interests. But there is uncertainty about the other way. It could have been taken. That's the best way. When a prime minister arrived, he used him to bust his chest at the forward party council's party and pray in the splendor of his life, saying that he was now going to use the bat. Hv. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson once called it a shotgun. What's the situation now? Amazing surrender to demands. It has been observed during the discussion that they bring the ideas, and even those who have promoted the Icelandic government in discussions that it leaves the possibility of 400 billion. It's the team that was going to handle demands. Depending on this discussion, the discount is still the case. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason hails today to demands is five times greater than the amount used to reduce the debt's head. It's totally clear what's first. The advance team has apparently put more emphasis on the interests of demands than on the average Icelanders who owe for their housing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u42	A respectable president. This would now be said by someone to sign up to make a systematic effort to mislead a good discussion because - Here goes a bad one. A senator who at his time stated in terms of economic issues that he was like a fish in a dry country in the Generals' study report, Iceland, here is the most effective method of trying to mislead a successful discussion. [[I'm not that kind of man.]] [[Trolls, creaking on a baloney.]] I have to say, and I'm not going to add anything to it other than what I said in my speech earlier, the forward squad has used the most effective means of defending Iceland's interests in this matter. He's done it, and it's performing here in these primes, but these exits are coming from the wind. A senator who in his last term always made constant efforts to lower his knees to demands, including those of the others. In the Icesave case. A respectable president, I think. A senator and my party partner, Vigdís Hauksdóttir, would say it was like throwing glass out of a stone house.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u43	V.E.G. President. I have listened carefully to the discussion that has been conducted here on this very important twofold, one on the stabilisation tax so called and then on as a so - called stable conditions or negotiations, which are now to be mentioned but that is natural, based on agreements. I say that I listened carefully to the discussion, including the comments that fell here today about the transparency and the lack of it. When noted that the matter was not beneficial, it was said that it was now wishing that life was simple, so simple that it could be placed in an excel document that everyone would understand but that it would not be so and therefore would not be done with this complex matter. I have to say, I don't think it's worth a lot of people who criticized the Icesave treaties in their time for secrecy and the lack of transparency in this bill and the ways that deal with huge sums, hundreds of billions of dollars, and we're not getting to see the evidence on it and, in part, it's so impenetrable that few seem to understand it all. It's just the fact of the matter. Nevertheless, this should be accomplished in ten days. In ten days, this great, expensive interests that concern society and our economy are to be overcome. First, I'd like to criticize these tactics. By means of this prime project and the way it is ordered, Iceland's National Bank is, in effect, committed to taxation, simply because of a desolate breakdown of business banks and savings to open up payment by the end of 2015, they will not be considered to be taxable to the tax-employing parties according to Article 3. This bill. Who should supervise it and meet conditions published in the bill and in the opinion of the Committee? It's Iceland's Secret Bank. This should be monitored and maintained according to the general rules set. There's a huge amount of money playing. We are told that the Council of Economic and Business Committee will account for the situation or the progress it develops, explain its decisions to the Economic and Business Committee. Then the legislatator may intervene in a change of law, but power has gone out of the chamber until there is a new legalization. I have to say for my part that I feel that there are a lot of these things that are very vague, very hostile, and I criticize that not all the data are on the table. But I'm ready to support the stable tax. He's understandable to me, and he's a clear approach. I suspect that the reason why they don't want to stick to that one course is a fear of the demands, that they will set the State before the courts, trying to move forward there. I don't have that kind of fear. I have much more faith in the fact that a sovereign state such as ours can impose a common tax law and that these bodies should be held in agreement with them as to all of us, under the law established by the Council. If we were to pay income taxes and return and real estate fees to negotiate with states and ruralities on ways to avoid paying our fees, wouldn't there be some who would choose that route and accept it as a happy hand? But to these people, there are other rules. And who are these parties? It's not the original demands, everybody knows that. More than 90% of claimors are in existence after a crash, and some of them bought their items at a very low price, down to 4% to their names. In these last few weeks, people have been buying a slightly higher price. It is said that Soros bought some of the names of some 44 billion per twenty-two thousand percent of their names. These are the sums and these are the people who come in here to mate the hook. And I'm not one of those who feel too taxed, I think it's low tax, and I agree with Invenge, and I agree with critical economists like Lilja Mósesdóttir, og Össur's son, Skarphéðinn's, is called here from the Senate Hall - would like to go to a higher tax rate? [["And to the hand of English, the son of Skarphéðinn."]] I haven't heard many people speak for it, but I would agree with it. Even on high - paying people, people have become terribly shy about talking about their taxes. I was reminded at a conference I attended a few days ago west of Canada that by the middle of the last century, a wealth tax in the United States would have been over 90%, it would have been during the Republican days and the former general of Dwights Eisenhowers. That's over 90% tax. There was an economist and former minister in the Obama and Reich administrations that reminded us of this, 90%, so 39% of the taxes are low on the basis of these circumstances. And I understand nothing else but: How on earth does it seem that it is absolutely forbidden to speak of this as a raise for state funds, a trust fund that has been made of enormous financial resources, and for a time could not afford to renew minimum equipment in the Land Hospital and other local hospitals? Of course, it is morally right to take money to repair this damage, and I agree with the viewpoint of those who have spoken for it. Another thing I have to say is that I find it extremely difficult to understand what a disaster it is to face if a substantial amount of money flows into a fortune fund. Then there's a terrible temptation, people say, they may be able to buy an X - ray at the Land Hospital, renew their instruments there, and perhaps create a stability fund for the future that would be some kind of backsaid and support fund for the pension system. The concern here is that we don't have money to keep up with the future debt of the pension system and that people are looking to the social security and pension funds in general as well. There's a fund we need because in the future we have to change the pension arrangement in our country. The Pensions have become too big for our small economy, and I believe that we need to revise the mix we've had and we lived and were put together a few years ago or in 1996 when social security was intended to play a bigger role than we're going to. Now, people want a completely self-sustaining pension system that will then be stocked on the market, but the experience is that the pension fund has become too big and the perfusion thinking is more suitable for communities because the pensions, not just here but throughout the world, have become one of the main sources of self - interest. They require privatization of welfare services, hospitalisation, etc. That's where they want to take their money for bait. So I welcome every cent that enters the state's budget but, of course, agree with those who want to do it wisely and do as Norwegians have done with their oil reserves, trying to think of the future, a stability fund that would be partly financed by a good - looking taxation on the vulture money. That would be a good way for me. [[The point is, they can't be called...]] It can be called a vulture, it's only a vulture, it's a hedge fund, it's an ◯vulture capital, so it's been spoken of in foreign lands, and it's just to call the right names and these nasty fears and respect and reverence for these people that need to be negotiated. It can't be taxed like me and you, and it can be established by general rules, no, no, it's supposed to be sanctimonious with this team at meetings and negotiations and to come to a conclusion that will be acceptable to it. This is not done with the public taxpayers in the country. No, there's supposed to be something else about these people. I think we should stick to the taxing route, accept it. I'd agree to raise the percentage, but if there's a general will to stick to 39%, I'd pretend to know that the percentage will be slow and I'll agree with it, but I'm totally against the other, this classified, and this topless secret. Not all data is on board, and we're hiding Iceland's Secret Bank in terms of taxation, that's what's happening. This may be a good game, and I don't doubt that men have worked very hard, and those on the Economic and Business Committee have taken a good look at these matters, and I want to thank them for their work, but still they are trying to cover a complex matter that is completely inaccessible over the course of ten days, and then I want to hide the Secret Bank in the value of tax reform authority where it can consume even hundreds of billions, depending on the decisions taken there. What should the Bath - sheba primarily think about? He's supposed to be thinking about stability. True, he's supposed to think of - these are very general rules that are put there - public interest, that will not be allowed to go to the currency, very good, nor the public's standard of living. But I can't see how he should try to maximise the money flow to the state fund. There's nothing to say about that. That's a fucking off-limits, isn't it? I don't know if there's anything to do with that possible trial, I don't know that it's against the law to talk about paying off the state funds and earning money. Why can't we say that? Why not? Can only raise money from the public taxpayers, but not from this team? Can a sovereign nation, a sovereign state such as ours not establish general taxation rules without divulging about the fear of going into court with the matter and losing it? I could see an Icelandic court judge against the lawgiver in the country for setting such a general tax policy, I could see it happen. But I advertised those who criticized here during the last terms of transparency in negotiations, in the Icesave treats, where not all was on the table. I advertise their attendance at a council hall, and their right to settle this case while it is as open as it is, and by hiding Iceland's Secret Bank in the value of taxation authority to be found in this hall and nowhere else at home.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u44	Mr. President. I don't know exactly what you think. A senator is about how far the Icelanders can go by demanding money from demands. But I believe that it has been a long time that we can go as far as we need to maintain financial stability. There are various ways in which we can do this, and there are clearly two options in our discussion right now. The first is a stable tax. We were informed of this in our time. This was done in a talk of the highest order. The prime minister of the High Priest's Assembly described how he was going to use the equipment he had created and, in fact, a device created by the previous government, he did not rely on his support in his time to go as far as possible with the demands. Following that talk, men standing near the management team spoke of the tax being 1,000-1,200 billion dollars. But it was only later revealed, and not until after the presentation in Happe of the stable tax bill, that, behind it, it was negotiated another way, this way is the selective stability process and the fulfillment of so - called stability criteria. I think it may be said that after this discussion, it is quite clear that there is uncertainty on the rest of the way. It's not known how much stability will be done. We don't know the stability conditions. But I would like to ask. A senator because he is a poor political psychologist: What does he consider to be the cause that those who once wanted to go the longest, such as the Supreme Court? Prime Minister Davíð Gunnlaugsson is now in position of those who give discounts, 400 billion discounts, five times the discount of the mortgage. What causes this to happen? A senator who now knows within the camp at the forwarding party, in their psychiatry, better than most of whom I know?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u45	V.E.G. President. I'm not the expert on the soul life of the Future Party as it is. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson is going, I'm not. What causes men to go that way and to get away from what was originally started, I do not insist. I insist that there have been discussions within the government on these matters and not necessarily given that everyone was there on one matter. But I don't have any explanation for this, just looking at what's on the table here. I agree with what. A senator that when the case was presented at her time, this was presented primarily as a stable tax, and thus came out of Harpa. It was referred to another way, and it was meant to be of value. Now there may be various ways to calculate it, but it was supposed to be. The day will later come when we will not be able to do so because this development has not occurred and there is much to be said about it. This is a very general rule or general frame for the Federal Bank to process, but there is nothing but a general frame. And then we have nothing more in the council than a promise that a financial and business committee will be informed about this development at the fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u46	Mr. President. I'm a little surprised by the knowledge I had. A member of the advance team has no idea how little he could reveal to me what is a subject of investigation: What caused this conversion of the forwarding party? I think it's a subject of research after the Agency's success has been the longest in accusing others of taking up the challenges of the demands. We listened to it as a matter of course. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason said earlier and then, once the idea of the stable tax has been developed, when the prime minister has given a big talk about it at the High Council and has been introduced to him at a special meeting in Hörp, it is quite another way. In the company of the advance party, the crews have a chance of losing a lot of money, allowing them to get out of the case by 400 billion less. Let me tell you what. A senator who has been busy for the last few days said that in one of the newspapers a report was published by one of the reporters whose greatest insight into the demands'world, he said: "It has brought about a state of mind called euphoricness. The reporter asked: "What is the cause of the euphemism of the demands? He said that he was disturbed, and he asked this revolutionary question: Is it possible for the Icelandic government to produce its own products? I'm not gonna answer that, but these are the injections. I read this morning a news story from Bloomberg, where a happy name-maker was thrilled that all they had to do was pay $2.75 billion instead of 5.1. Is it really possible for a person to ask: " How is it that the forward movement group gave up the policy of achieving its greatest goals toward demands?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u47	V.E.G. President. There are a number of things that are naturally unambiguous in this case, and I look, for example. to an inner law in this case that the banks are to be sold out of the country. It is in these conditions that this is likely to happen. And I agree with what. In his speech or reply earlier today, a senator thought in horror so that shouting foreign people could get their Icelandic banks alone to clean out their insides, and this would hardly be a national situation. I remember that reason. The head of the Economic and Business Committee has also agreed, he fears this trend. But about the rage, I don't know her well but what. There the senator referred to the press. The thing that stabs me in this case is the transparency, that men are ready to accept here the bill, and that's not where I'm talking about the stable tax, which is as impervious as these ways. There's a lot of things to be kept secret, and we're just not supposed to accept it. That's why I can't support the bypass this convention is called.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u48	The president would like to state that he sees it as a matter of duration beyond the council to complete the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u49	A respectable president. Here is an excellent discussion, but it gives evidence that we have had little time to discuss this subject. Some people are unsure about certain aspects of the matter, especially the part that has to do with the stability conditions and is understandable. There are things that we don't know about, that we don't know how to develop, that we don't have information about, and that we naturally worry and call for as much information as possible, to ask for our agreement. This is also because when this case was all presented in Harpa, large numbers were set up with examples of war, 1,200 billion of the operation, 850 billion stable tax was placed on a fragment, a second cornea. It was discussed as if it were all very clear, from which there would be 850 billion, this taxation route would be being carried out, and it would be clear and set, as the prime minister had announced in a public assembly. But, of course, when it comes in here, it's not like that, and we see it now. The work of the Committee has shown that the amount of money will be nearly half of what was mentioned in the Harp if the conditional route is gone or if what should be called the Convention of the Governments of Sigmundur, Davíð of Gunnlaugsson Gunnuga, to the demands have been realized. If the deal is made by the Governments of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunollson to the demanding workers, the sum will be completely different. It bothers me with this, for people to be using a lot of national interest to make themselves questionable, to create expectations that have caused the media to explore how they want to use this money, whether they want to build hospitals, or something like that. Such presentations, irresponsible approach to the matter as we saw in Harpa, call for such a reaction. It will be good when this matter is concluded and there is no longer a chance of applying what they have done for a very questionable political purpose, as the prime minister has done for a considerable long time. In large national interests, people are expected to humbly report but not give up billions who do not exist and will never receive. I heard some discussions about the uncertainty. It is natural, as I entered at the beginning of my talk, and I understand those who are concerned about it. That doesn't change, though, and now I'm just gonna get this case out of the way that we set up legislation 2013 regulations that a financial and economic minister would have to agree with all the major officers from the seas and that we need to consult with the Allied Economic and Business Committee. There are certain safety provisions for the big capital movement and access, and if I understand the case correctly, they are now being reinforced by what is taking place at this point in what is being done in that prime event. Of course, we need to hope that it will do that, and it will at least ensure that there will be consultation and information to the council, that was the goal when we made this adjustment in our time. One reason we've been able to go through this in as short a time as it really is, or in about ten days, is that we're a lot in here, and the government's going to have nothing cold on the case. We were in the government during the last term, and we had to work with the oceans and with swellings and snow - handeds and whales. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's Steingrímur went well over the way it was done and how the approach was done. However, since the setting of the oceans here on autumn days 2008, many things have taken place and have been well considered in the national program of 2011 and have been in effect since then. Since then, we have also considered how it grew and expanded when internalized by the seas in March 2012 at the General Assembly of all the foreign property of the weeds. This was of utmost importance, and there is a complete turning point in the case, because since then we have had a position to control what happens in the development of the swelling workers to ensure Icelandic interests and to ensure stability in our economy and so that the restitution of the swelling farms does not cause decapitation. So if we are able to get along with this now, we are positive in a certain way because we certainly did not agree with them. At that time, we had a position of government that could not be represented under any circumstances in a single matter, not even with such large national matters, and an independent party actually voted against the proposal to take up the foreign property of the weeds, which is the prerequisite for what is being done here today and all these measures are based on. Happily, we have decided not to be so hardened in our opposition to our present government that we are not ready to accept important issues like these. That is what we have done, and history has greatly helped to see that men have been able to handle it so rapidly through the council as they do. As the size of the swelling farms was extended on autumn days of 2012, it was immediately following a stage film attack, i.e. working with the way this could be done so that the economy could not move on, and we could begin to clear the seas. Part of that work was that in March 2013, or a year after this important legislation was passed, when the swellings were taken under the sea, a very important decision was made at the Council, which also showed the demands that we were fully serious by going as far as our national commitments and laws allowed us to do so. It was when we made our decision in this hall in March 2013 to make the seas untimely, we took out the ocean's sun rules, so that they were premature, and thus the first steps were actually taken toward what is being done here today, we showed the demands that we meant it when we said we were going as far as national commitments allowed us to defend Icelandic interests. This took place around March 2013. I was sitting in the position of financial and economic ministers when we were working with the projections and making these changes, taking out the rules of the sun and making changes in the affairs of the council so that major decisions would be consulted with the Economic and Business Committee. In connection with all of this and before that, I had a meeting with the chairman of the Independence Party, the head of the parishion Party, and the people who were then involved in the movement, Þór Saar. On those occasions, we considered what was happening to us and were thoroughly familiar with it. That's why it went well through the council, the changes we made, because they knew that this was the preparation for us to put up with the demands, so that we might be able to protect Icelandic interests and that we could begin to lose our heads of Icelandic households and Icelandic business. As a result, we hired a special counselor to work with us on these stages. That counselor was, and it was revealed in the media back then, Steinar Þór Gudgeir's son, the Guðgeirsson Court attorney. He worked very well with us, worked out the scene, and did it well. It's a little fun to look at the stage shots now and what they've been doing here, but it's the same thing as the ones that's being done here. This makes it easier for us to understand what is going on and to put ourselves in it, and it has been possible to walk as fast here as it really is. That's why it's, like, broke. paritaprevir The Árni Páll Árnason mentioned earlier, surprised me that somehow people are trying to climb onto other people's backs and make themselves big in politics. There are so many others who can do so. It is a huge interest in the nation, and it is important that it is solidarity; it is important that people make the right numbers; they do not give expectations beyond what is possible. This government has failed all those tests because they have seen an opportunity to strike political cones. But they don't put political cones on these kind of things. It's just wrong to do it. It's not big people that it does when there's so much under there. I hope that we will not see more of such developments in the future and that humans will learn from this. A respectable president. According to that, I'm going to mention at the end that, as we have already seen, there is little uncertainty in this. Of course, the 850 billion that the stable tax could create or reach will be much fewer if the route or the policy route is gone and if the contracts of the reigns of Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson Gunoug, to the demands become reality, we are talking about a much lower amount. It's like whisk. That Assur Skarphéðinsson has been so careful today. That is why it is completely incomprehensible to me why this figure is presented in the public introductions, 850 billion. It would be far better to be honest in this regard and immediately recognize that the amount of money will actually be lower and that it will also help people to realize that these are not the funds that are available to take over the others and those activities. It is not so and best to tell about it right away so that our expectations won't be too high. There will be other developments when all of this takes place, and much of the money and property will change hands. It matters to us here, and to us as Icelanders, it does not care at all about the natural nature of certain discussions. That is why it is so important that humans try to do so in a way that they can keep this as open and open as possible. We will keep an eye on this process from here by the Council and will give it a very firm and powerful measure when it takes its place, when banks' possession begins to change, etc. Finally, I'd like to mention that this has not been started. The case is not over when we accept this law or change from here. The first task has begun, and it has not been removed. You have heard of the officials of the government that execution is not included. Rather, it can be called a capital flotation because we will have to live with some kind of head while living in the Icelandic crown in the form it is. What I miss most and want to call for is that the Chairman of the Committee will report at the end of the discussion whether the Committee asked the following question: And then what? People are going to lose weight, but how will they drive the money system? What's going to happen? Then we'll just go back on autopilot into the same environment where we have a relatively larger growth rate and walk and we'll see the influx of funds for high interest and then what? How will this be followed? I don't feel that we can go to the full disposal of capital strides that are different from the fact that answers to those questions are not available. The only thing that is available on the part of this government is that they are ready to cut off the only way that has been discussed. I can totally understand that, not everyone needs to agree with me and us in the Union that there could be the best way to pick up Euro in this process. Not everyone needs to agree with us in this regard. At least you pray about it when you close the way for them to set the table for what they will do instead. That's not in the way. All we know right now is that we're gonna get rid of capital heads and then we're gonna hit self-control into the same environment that we got ourselves into this problem at first. There is no other on the table, and that is irresponsible. We'll call very stiff, as for this government's sake, that she knows where she's going to take us into the long future, that men have some idea of it so that it won't drive us over the head as far as it goes if nothing has to be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u50	A respectable president. The issues discussed here are as a result of the events that took place some seven to eight years ago, in the spring of 2007, and in 2008. At that time, there was a lot of trouble in the banking system, which led to the collapse of Icelandic banks and fell at the beginning of October 2008 and were the property of these banks on loans about 10 of yours. Billions, about eight times national product. These assets were divided into 5,500 billion in domestic property and 4,500 billion in foreign property. At one time, property and debt were due to stand up, but at the beginning of 2008, it was found that relatively few were opposed to the foreign debt of banks, which were 6,600 billion, if I recall correctly, by the beginning of 2008. did not fully cover those foreign debts. The problem we are dealing with today is a major imbalance between foreign debt, foreign property, and domestic property that have the characteristics that they cannot be converted into a foreign currency without the pressure on the crew of the kroner, the demand for foreign currency, and the fall of the Icelandic crown that will lead to disaster in not a long time and any balance that will lead to a new spiral. In this case, we are trying to deal with this problem. Tanks and those who have written on our behalf have come to realize that these domestic assets are not worth the money, they cannot be turned into foreign currency. The problem is under way. This is, in fact, a unique problem. I haven't found such a problem. What's more, I've been playing the art how to spend it in accounting. It's one joint that's even. So here we are trying to spend valuables that are not money. You can never talk about this as money. There are two ways in which there are few people, and the third one actually stands wide open. These two are taxation, 39% property tax. We cannot compare 39% of property taxes with 39% income taxes or 40%, depending on events. On the other hand, there is a stability policy based on an agreement that will be resolved if an agreement is reached. The third way that is open now is the failure of these institutions, i.e. collapse therapy based on bankruptcy. In fact, it would have been a afterlife and would have resulted in auctions from some of the demanding employees, who have this legal requirement in a country that has the obligation to establish with free flow of capital and currency. The money - failure route would have led to years of hard work in the currency market, which is being attempted to cut off. The ways here are being carried out are very simply leading to the fact that treaties can be reached without repercussion and the property of the swollen and cannot be changed to become neutral within the Icelandic jurisdiction of the Sensitian Bank. It has been called on in the Economic and Business Committee that there may be a moral problem, a desire to use this amount of money, which is also not money, for some quality. I'm not gonna call health care a pet project. I'm not gonna call the construction of a national hospital pet project. It is simply a matter of fact that each amount of expenses of this donations has exactly the same effect in the hands of a government fund as they have in the hands of the demands. It is the terror that is trying to escape. If those parties to whom these measures are to be met enter these contracts, then there's a big problem, which is unique, as I said earlier. I have not found such a problem that the private sector holds much accounting value that cannot be converted into a foreign currency. I'll let me say, the respectable President, the irreversible currency, that's the problem we're facing. These values will be objective in the economy, which now has various possibilities to thrive successfully, i.e. By means of what nature produces, it flourishes. Then we should be able to cope with reasonable conditions, and there certainly is room for the economy so that the projects we consider necessary will become simpler in the coming years. Everyone has a affection for a new national hospital, a university hospital. The amount of money there is really not the big way, I'll tell you, in comparison. I don't believe that 8,990 billion national hospitals are much bigger than the Landsaholic in 1930. I'm pretty optimistic for us Americans if this is going to work out, i.e. stability tax according to incidents. Even if everything gets to the lowest position, the problem is solved. No one triumphs in war. There is a conclusion that comes to be accepted in this war, the battle here, on the issue of solution to the bank population. I hope the result is settled. Everybody's got a strong trick in their mouth, but this is the standard. I hope that men do not boast in great triumphs or that better results could have been achieved. Of course, you can always do better if you are dealing with a old woman. You can do better than that. This is simply a conclusion of agreement, and I believe, under the circumstances, we can be relatively content with the agreements that may be reached on the basis of the legal rights that will soon be resolved by tomorrow. A respectable president. I'm not going to have my case further in the meantime. I appreciate your audition.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u51	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir To this day, J. Sigfusson's Sigfússon gave a beautiful talk, which was the speech I wanted to give. He snooped over this matter, described the need for currency, and how there could have been no other way to deal with the problems they faced with national preparations. It's a generous thing for a man. A senator then in a position of government, but throughout that period, he supported these necessary measures. Hv. A senator also reviewed the procedures started by the government of Geir H. Haarde and was then continued by two governments at that point. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's mask was one of two presidents, first minority government and then the majority of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir. That's all they'll say. Like our colleague, a senator was big. paritaprevir Dozens of Níelsson's son in his excellent speech last night when he concluded his praises to the work of all these governments. That's why I'm taking it. I think all these governments worked hard and did their best, so I'm going back to my fine speech. paritaprevir Brubbur the Brynjar of Níelsson yesterday. To some extent, the hands were divided. To some extent, everyone made mistakes. Yet, I feel that all of them are to be commended for their actions. I was in the field, and I was a member of a group of four ministers who in a certain way directed a reaction in the 2008 crash and was in the field when the law of rescue was taken to set. I feel that now when men look back on the importance of recalling that there are not two men there who were in our order at the time. They are Prime Minister Geir H. Haarde and Prime Minister Björgvin G. Sigurðsson. Together, they had the greatest honor from the group involved in setting the law of rescue. Since then, research has shown that by many options that could be taken, the law of rescue proved to be the best option, and when you look back, that is, in fact, unauthorized, compared with the fast - paced conditions that existed in a few days. I think it's important to come out here. That was the first point of the restoration. During that time, men were forced to post their currency. At the table, our community was stopped, our currency was grown up, we no longer had money for drugs, for oil, for foreign food. I remember that I had to call as a representative of the Icelandic government at a foreign airport to ensure that an Icelandian plane could fly to Iceland. Here's the deal. This is what led to the use of currency. It worked. It's a miracle that society didn't stop, so to speak, when you look back. In one night, people, such as the current president of the Bank of Iceland, Tryggvi, the son of Pálsson, were able to make sure that the system of payment was not stopped, that it was taken over from the Federal Bank, and also the good people who worked there night and day very much to ensure that the money supply in the country was not emptied. All of this matters when you look back. That, in turn, was the work of the government, and especially so. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, then the minister of finance, to take up unstealed matters in an effort to plan the initial reactions in an effort to create circumstances for future relief and, preferably, the release of currency capitals. The first plan on this came in 2009. The strategy, such as the one that came, in 2011, addressed the problem that was then the most urgent of book letters, which were the deportations. They had been piled up by a growth trade that resulted from an extremely unfortunate development of the UNBLA Rural Growth, resulting in a mountain of kroners in Iceland's Sensian Bank of over 650 to700 billion dollars. Some of them were extremely quick and had a great deal of escape, and they were attacked to win them down with slow - moving auctions. In time, however, some of those who wanted to be in the asylum quickly and reached their home were able to rub out. Today, the present government has continued to do this and has descended to 300 billion dollars. Hv. paritaprevir So J. Sigfússon's mask made the shoes in his fine speech today that, of course, it would be necessary and would be the next, after the verse we are staging here today, to neutralize the rest of our speech, I'm quite sure that they'll be so willing to go. I'm not sure of it, either, as it seems to be in the country and abroad, I refer only to the Swedish bank's decision to lower the management rate to -0.35%, that there will be as much flight of Icelandic crowns as ever, including... in the supply bank, and many like to be left alone. But there were two factors that also mattered greatly at that time. First, try to draw up the outline of the swollen population. At that time, they were shaped like amaba, and no one knew their outline. It simply took a long time to map the stretchers. I'll remember that when it's the highest. The current government of a good government imposed tax or other tax returns on a certain taxation of a financial enterprise in parley treatment. It failed because it was not completely seen how the tax resistance was. This was why the ideas that were tore up for the last election, including of those who say here, to attack on such taxation, were not very good. It was also quite clear when the last terms were passed that the farms within the reef were huge and would lead a growing pressure on the crown's gang and could not be let out. Already, men set out to draw up measures to overcome it. I recall that in a report prepared by the International Cash Fund, some were drawn up ways that were in the first phase to overcome the Offenses in the way I have described. There were also toiled ways of working on the marauder's farms, and it became absolutely clear, and, in fact, significantly changed in the performance of many of the World Bank bonds, to think that they were going the South Asian way and to put on the espionage tax, which the Navy never wanted to call taxes, but to pay or stress. The World Bank Fund was initially a bit reluctant, but when the year 2012 fell, the International Cash Fund tore up ideas of a very rigid espionage tax. What mattered at that time, however, was to ensure that it was to take control of the demands that would require no foxes and that it was necessary to lock down the vast amount of currency they had to control in Icelandic economic history. It was probably the most important operation that has been taken until the day dato to capture the weapons of the Icelanders. And maybe it would be to show the devil a good time like a dog. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason a little tickled his beard earlier to recall that it was not very understood here in the council halls. At that time, there was a group of political leaders who opposed it and another political party at that time. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason belongs, dropped in to support it, he sat by. When I'm at the highest. The prime minister gave a brief talk on the stable tax probably a week ago and reviewed what each government had done in preparation for its release, then it was now not larger in format, blessed, but it forgot completely what happened here on March 12, 2012, when, on one night, we were locked away in a deposit reserve, which was inactive in the economy, i.e. He was of no importance to the economy. He could have gone out without any special impact, but taking advantage of our right to make laws about this was he taken hostage. It's the bat, it's the shotgun, it's a whip, like a whale. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir, who later became minister of finance and economics, expressed it in an interview with the Morning Press, the whip, and the yellow root. If you dance with us, you may get yellow root, and otherwise you'll get hit with whips. But to be reasonable, as it were. paritaprevir When he gave his speech earlier, Ásmundur Einar Daðason could not feel his feelings, and most of all, I want that senator, but often he has a backdrop. A senator gave better speeches than then, it was certainly so when we brought it a bill here at the council after. 5 After the financial market closed on March 12, 2012, none of them knew, our council did not know about it, only a few ministers and the case was complicated. Out of my goodness, I'd like to allow me to explain the position of the Independence Party and the forward party from that time, if they have not understood the matter. But that's very generous of me, and I want to be generous at what I want to do. paritaprevir Ásundur Einar Daðason, of course, because of that. A senator once again spoke of the permissiveness of the former government and a service to the demands, recalling that the forward party has made a strange journey on this matter. True, it is true that the band here made a hard fight against demands at the time and intended to destroy them with clubs and shotguns, as famously did. How, though, did the forwarding party begin? Does anyone remember that? Remember, for example, the one who's been the longest in the field here, huh? paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, by the way he started? Yes, in the period of the minority government that we formed at the time, the forward category, at present, went to the highest level. Prime Minister, and w. paritaprevir Þórhallsson, on a famous trip to Norway. I have a pile of 30 news just about it. And what were they doing? Yes, they made a petition to the Norwegians by the Persian Pers Lundteigens, their Central Party partner, to ask the Norwegians to lend a loan line to the Icelanders of 2,200 billion. What does the October 17, 2009, issue of this magazine say on page 16? 2? There is a picture of these young, magnificent men, the head of Þórhallsson's son, and Sigmundur, Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson, who was then the new chairman of the great advance. The newspaper notes that much is involved in such payment, such as the release of Iceland from the state of the British and Dutch countries, and the rate of growth is much lower. In other words, have the members of this hall forgotten that theizers of the House wanted to go the longest? They wanted to score money abroad to pay Icesave their time. How important it is that we do so when we speak of self - indulgence and slavery to demands! Is it not true, then, to recall now that it is as if the advance party turned a whole circle? Today, the Icelandic government, under the lead of Gunnlaugsson Gunollson's Sigurmundon, has provided a bill on stable taxes, and it shows that the bill presents a report showing that it is black and white that this may be Iceland in international law, we may do this, and that this would bring up half of the demands to 860 billion. Then it turns out that when the Prime Minister, the leader of the life of this young senator and the head of the advance team who now sits in the hall and should watch me but not his phone, has introduced this, once the Grand Prix of Iceland's highest goals have been set out, the same day that there is some other way that the people were not told about at the forward party party party, which Sigurður „ Hannesson and Benedikt Gíslason did not tell us about it when they presented it in Haurpu. So it turned out to be a discountal route that makes demanding workers escape with 400 billion less than in the bill as the Supreme Government. Prime Minister made an offer. In other words, after contracts as the highest. The prime minister is afraid of having taken place but at the highest level. Economic and economic ministers are sufficiently honest to report in this hall that Bloomberg has reported, some form of deduction that makes it possible for the crew to receive 400 billion discounts from the stable tax. It's completely out of the question. Who would have confided in the last election that it would be Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, who would have taken the initiative to introduce a direct stability tax, to make a back door - how was it spoken - key members of the demands? V.E.G. Prime Minister or at least his hired ambassadors, possibly Sigurður Hannesson, secretly convened with London's demands, and it will not be exposed until the highest level. Secretary of finance knows that no one is to be masked by the council, informing them of their own initiative in the transmission address to this matter. I think it's important to be out of it as a matter of course. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason said. I'm not going to let this party be ruined by a talk like that. But there was a reason. A senator who gave me a reason for that fact because I do not share it on account of anything like that the government I was serving in has gone through the greatest demands of my life. And if they're going to leave that way, it's like a party sister. A senator, Vigdís Hauksdóttir, prepared last week to talk about the government of the claimors, what can be called a government that makes demands that is almost seven times greater than the alleged cost of Icesave 2? What government, then, can be called a claimer's government? The temptation is great, but I resist that temptation. I'm not going to call this government a demanding government, and I'm even going to argue that it has produced bills that are technically well prepared, and it is quite clear that the red strand held by the Navy has been holding in hand since the first days of the collapse is very well prepared. The defendant is to be commended for this matter, just as the government does. And the government deserves special commendation for the stability tax. Mr. President. I'm not in a lot of trouble. I immediately said in the beginning, when the highest. The prime minister introduced his forward ideas on stable taxes at a platoon meeting, that I liked them. They are based on the same ideologies as those films produced by Steinar Gudgeir's Guðgeirsson court lawyer in the time of the last government that were used to introduce three delegates at two meetings; Þór Saari, the current Supreme Court. Prime Minister and current financial and economic minister, so they now recognize them for their products. It was just a cool idea, and it's definitely safe, and I even understand it. I understand why the taxes are 39%, but not 38% or 40%. Then comes this strange bypass, which was never introduced and took many days to realize that there was a person. It was only when the demanding crew began to shout out joyfully, and when what one media called "jealousy " broke out in the group of those who began to study it. It's very difficult for me to take a stand on this line. I don't know the stability conditions. No one's ever been able to figure out the stability proposals for me. I'm in a situation where I don't fully understand it, even though I've tried as hard as I can, and I would have liked to have three, four weeks, and therefore a month to try to understand it. This is the most complex but probably the most important thing I will ever face during this terms. I have to take a stand from men I trust, like a rough one. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigurionson, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason and Steingrímur J. Sigfússon. These men I trust in have examined these matters as members of the Committee and come to the conclusion that the bypass is okay for Iceland. I believe the others are more loyal, I believe that uncertainty is all connected to the bypass. What, then, should a senator like me, who wants to do his job and be French, when he does not fully understand the matter? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u52	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson again before his speech. I'm not going to have a long word exchange with what. A senator, though, I'm going to remind you of one thing. A senator I remember very much because there was a witness here to Icesave and other factors. I remember a lot about what I did. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Ossphédinsson, who fought for the approval of the Icesave treaties in his day, was the first man to make the press I saw to celebrate the president's reference to national pay. Hv. Thus, a senator in these matters has quickly changed his mind and looked for a political way that has fallen into popularity. I'd like to quote what happened to Ólafur the son of Elíasson, one of the Indefence men today, by permission of a respectable president: The Össur team and others on the subject are encouraged not to fall into the trap of doing one of the most important issues the nation has ever had to deal with political mud. The headline on this blogist that is written today is the Misapprehension of Avengers. Finally, I want to rejoice that this matter is a broad arrangement here at the Hall of Congress because it is important for the matter itself. I believe that the conclusion we have here is very good, and I'm glad we're doing it. A senator shares that opinion with him. Congress officials in general do so, and I believe it is important that a body of Congress be united when we issue this bill tomorrow in order to maintain stability in Icelandic society on contracts with the demands. I believe that it is important that there be wide agreements, and let us keep the discussion in that place.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u53	Mr. President. My talks repeatedly show that I am Bible - based, an old mediocre. I think when men like what they're doing. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason will come and strike me with his hand, and he must assume that I will defend myself. I didn't mean to come up here to talk about the past, I do very little of it for a while, I'm a man of the future, and I'm an optimistic spirit. Senator. But the past was a cause for speech. A senator here earlier today. And he must learn it, if not ill enough, that he doesn't come up here and talk about me participating in something that can be called treason, without his getting them pedophilic badly back. And if there's something I've learned from experience, it's that if you don't behave, you're supposed to tutor them. On the other hand, I understand very well what is happening. A senator is ashamed of the way the advance party has completely disappeared from what he was always talking about, in fact, only six weeks since the prime minister spoke of conditions to be addressed. Oh, yes, they've been dealt with. V.E.G. Prime Minister, I guess with help. paritaprevir The Ásmundur of Einar's Daðason, have attracted the softest silk gloves in the wrestling with the demanding men, the man who was going to use the bat, the shotgun, and what was now all of this, in effect, will release them from the prison, allowing them to escape 400 billion. Is there no hope that Bloomberg will be news of men who will not be pleased? It spreads into the Icelandic media. The fact is, paritaprevir Ásmundur Daðason Dadadson could have settled this case, and his band could have arranged that Iceland's position with the currency lords and their deduction be completely secure, and the Icelandic state funds would have received 400 billion more. [[The president calls.]] True, he cannot use them now, but he could use them at some future time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u54	A respectable president. I'm just gonna say again what I said earlier, I think we're here to make a very good decision, and I'm glad that the conference is in agreement with the government today. We're defending stability in the Icelandic community with this one. And I'd like to say it's important that we hold that position and I'd also like to say that we should avoid what Ólafur Elíasson, one representative of the Invenge group, called today the misdirection of the discussion. Let's try not to mislead the discussion, and I look forward to handling these matters tomorrow because, as I said in my earlier speech, which I know to do. A senator listened to this, but this isn't one of the most important matters just for this council, it's the most important case of the season.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-145.u55	Well, then I guess. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason to go to Ólafur Elíasson's son and get a proper lesson from his manners. Hv. A senator can't assume that he can come here on dirty shoes and lay on me or anyone else in a public chair without someone defending him. That was a good time. A senator who made accusations against me and the government I was in. That's when I feel that there's good reason for it. A senator takes out a mirror and faces himself and asks: " Is this the man who faces two options? [[Up front.]] Both benefits protect Iceland's financial stability; one returns at the state budget of 860 billion; the other returns 400 billion less. Why, then, would those who have always talked about not making deals with the demands but beating them with clubs, that should be done in a complete way against them, why are the demands leading up to them? I can't answer that, but I do know that men who are so agreeable to the demands should not be talking about others being overly soft on them.
