ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u1	V.E.G. President. We're on the 3rd. These issues are a few things I would like to come up with for further explanation. I'm going to do just enough for what's been said before about the trial and other changes we're considering, but the things I specifically wanted to mention are three, we can say, given the reason for the inquiry and discussion that have taken place after the matter has come into this direction. First, there has been some reason to believe that outdoors and travel are concerned that public rights are being forced through the legal adjustments that are going through here. On this point, I would like to say that, basically, the same legal situation is expected to be valid in terms of the public court. In this respect, a number of tourists have been greatly improved in recent years. It makes it possible that when you are looking for balance, so to speak, between landowners, outcasts, and other tourists, you and I are doing so in a changing environment. The results of this discussion were that this was a special subject that would require special attention, and therefore we come to the conclusion that the situation should basically remain unchanged. However, we clearly direct it to the Environment Minister and Minister of travel to offer proposals for the Council at the latest fall of 2017, where the legal environment in this respect will be revised to make this clear. This is made clear in committee records and adjustments, but I thought that in view of the discussion to correct this matter. Another thing I wanted to be able to do in particular is the changes we will make to the contents of the bill on the precautionary principle. The decision was made on the basis of the Committee that we could clearly tell or in other ways the value of the precautionary principle, but it was also intended to be clearly set in a clear way, since we thought it was the most important, on the other hand, in the range of the natural protection laws itself and then we add to the modification of the requirement of human activities and planning. It is clear on the part of us on the Committee that we plan to make a decision on the basis of human activities and planning laws will be a precaution, as stated in Article 9. Nature protection laws, current. It is important that this is clear, as it is clear, that there is a period of permission in the human working and planning field, which are of significant importance and, in our opinion, natural and essential that the precautionary measures be taken when making such decisions, but of course, decisions of this sort are also welcome to the Environmental and Resource Advisory Committees and can receive their own treatment there. Finally, the highest. Mr. President, I would like to mention that with regard to the precaution, we certainly suggest a new approach to legislation through the changes we are here, and of course, it is reasonable to observe both on the part of the council and to consult how this induction works. At the same time, what has been discussed in our committee work should be considered that there is a need to review and add precautions to other legislation where appropriate. This is a work we're beginning with the treatment here and it's important to be followed up.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u2	A respectable president. I wanted to make a brief explanation of the changes in the memory given in this case so that it would be clear what is going on here. We who were participants in the legal process of law No. 60 out of 2013, remember that there was a lot of murmuring in society because of the proposed legislation, which was based in many ways on misunderstandings and misinformation of what was actually going on in the bill. In an effort to meet the wrong understanding, an environmental committee was established during the last term and tried to find some compromise. The intermediate has since continued to follow this issue and is part of the bill to be approved later today. However, in some other articles on the bill, it can be said that we have succeeded in clarifying and adapting the regulations that may have been on the final meters of 2013. The outside road law is one of those who would need more overcrowded and better repairs than we have been able to do on the committee. Nevertheless, in a smaller part of the environment and transport committee, we contribute to changing the provision of road transport, which, in our opinion, is much clearer than what is found in the bill. Then I'd especially like to go to 2 mg. The law says that in spite of the regulations against road transport, it is forbidden to operate in agriculture if there is a need to drive outside a country that is especially new to farm if there is not a result of the destruction of the natural world. In the first law, this was expected to apply to areas outside the central area, but in the bill as it appears today, those words have fallen out and have many commentators pointed out that this must be a mistake and it would be reasonable to add those words. In our suggestion, we just assume that these two words, the middle of the country, are added to the paragraph. More of the part for a defense, so now you're putting yourself in positions for him, that's how the next sentence is put, by President's permission: ▪ In pursuit, farmers are allowed to get sheep into the central highlands of light - powered motor vehicles, such as four bikes, for they will not be caught at any other time and will not be considered at risk of natural damage. The counterargument of these sentences leads to the argument that in the first sentence, driving within the central highlands is forbidden, so that argument is maintained. Of course, it is common to the Committee that this is the case, but we thought it was safer to speak more strongly in the text and therefore make adjustments. Of course, as was done yesterday's discussion that in this second sentence I read, the phrase "pells " will not be reached by any other way, which is, of course, a measure of protection, since for 1100 years, only light vehicles have been reached on the central highlands. So it's necessary. In addition, one of the work appendages of the last round of this law section of the council is a large list of agents that are exceptionally restricted by road transport, which include, for example, road transport. list roads, line lines, all kinds of food, sand, and land healing, and so on. We suggest that the Agency grants these organisations special permission, temporary or temporary, as these jobs cannot be performed in any other way. We naturally felt that there was a special license in those cases, rather than that of the law. This is that I keep an article that everybody really agrees on in each version, but I think the adjustment proposal we're moving here is much clearer. It has more to do with itself than the others that it is not made up of some long process of negotiation, where a number of people have come to differing viewpoints, but it is written in one piece and therefore normal. I wanted in this short verse to explain why we're moving this adjustment proposal. I think if we'd done a little bit of this earlier this fall, we'd have put it together. I'm afraid it didn't work, but that's the way it is sometimes, we'll just have to face it, and we'll have to make that decision at a vote here in the audience.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u3	A respectable president. I want to come up here and do a little business on the road. I can say that as soon as he was on the committee, in my final meters, I was myself, and all the members of the committee wanted to examine and engage in a new process. Then it was also found that the text we have in front of us is a conclusion from the last term, under certain circumstances. It is a very specific compromise that was presented, and thus it was found to recuperate. It is being transferred into the law text from a Regulation, and then we'll stop it, as well, from the Regulation, we'll add to it, if not, by nature. The damage to the natural world is defined in this Regulation. We came on to this in the Committee. We are trying to base the most on all of this. It's just some way in the lyrics, how it's going to be followed. This is a law code that has been interpreted very narrowly. When we began working on the change of license regulations and other forms, we were immediately advised that the exceptions we're talking about here have been with the people for a long time, and there are more than a thousand people who need to enter some sort of licence procedure. At that time, we did not think that we would find the right move so that we would not be gaining the government or entering something that has already gone up. However, I would like to point out that it is important that those with any authority here use them properly. If they start to abuse that authority in any way, they know that we can change the law again if necessary. I believe we shouldn't need legal guidance to handle all matters. It's about culture. I'd like to take an example like my colleague from the police, that's normal, even though they have a lot of authority to drive outside the area, there's police education about how it's done to protect nature. That is not just the source but how we can guarantee the natural world, even if we have to drive outside and use this source. This is how I urge all people, whether farmers, rescuers, or others, to consider this before taking advantage of their sources, that they may be at peace. I think it's very important. I'd like to say, since we started discussing this so late, it's a certain compromise. We are moving wording from law into law, and in the opinion of the Committee as to what nature damage is, what special agricultural practices are, they are not generally practiced in the middle of the country. We're trying to deal with all factors. We're adding a penalty for road transport. It's being swirled. The rule of caution has entered the Law itself, and it is also discussed in this article that it does not represent regulations in terms of peace and such. But speaking of it, 2nd C.E. came up. discussion of the definition of uninhabited worlds. Again, I would like to point out that it is a definition of the uninhabited and uninhabited worlds until it has passed through certain processes and forms of peace with different parties and such. There's no such thing as "no flight"! There are specific flight guidelines and they will continue to apply in these areas. That's it. Regarding road transport, this article is interpreted narrowly. The current trial state is being maintained and being placed in just a firmer and more assured foundation. Other than that, I thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u4	A respectable president. Since we have finally spoken, I thought it proper to mention a few points. Most of them have already been mentioned in this brief 3rd issue. about this big case. First of all, because of what. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson mentioned the role of the precaution and how we put it in the legislation, it is important to keep it in place that it is a procedure that does not have a direct pattern in which we do exactly what is done elsewhere, as we often do in legislation, but we have left a considerable question and a considerable question to conclude with our legal counseling that this is a means of success, i.e. to specifically specify the precautions under the protection laws of nature but also to be especially able to do so in both planning and operating laws. It is important to keep that understanding in place, i.e. Count 9. The protection laws of nature should be considered or built on or on the basis of a license based on man - made or organizational laws. I'd also like to agree with what happened by the dog. Ármannsson Regarding the common understanding of the Committee, the river son of man stated that it is important to add the precaution to other legislation where appropriate and to make sure that it is actually supported by all other legislation in which action and nature are involved. This is what we have to do. You could say it's the next step. It is no less important, as the committee's opinion shows, to take particular care in the cooperation of the Generals, the Senate and the Ministry to monitor and monitor how these laws go on and how they continue, especially in the implementation of the precautionary principle, so that we can assess just as strongly how this distribution is available and whether there is reason to react in any way and to correct either the law letter or to strengthen the procedure. This is very important to do, for it is our common understanding of the committee that success is needed. Only with regard to what has been discussed here, and it's about the transition as well. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall recommended, and we are partners in the smaller part of the committee and are at the roadside. Hv. A senator made a good impression on the change in agriculture jobs outside the central highlands, which are words we miss in the text. Senators go. The understanding of the Law text and the use of agricultural work outside the middleland is made clear by a majority of the cases have made this claim clear in the Committee. At the second time, i.e. And the team, we try to get a better grip on the fact in the law that we don't want to drive outside unless we do so. if we take the agriculture out of parentheses. Then we are trying to reach out and put it in such a way that the laws are transparent and accessible to those who have to follow them. I'm pointing out what. Councilmen suggest that it may even be a social game at some point if the bottom was falling from a good feast to read the law as it is now, and as the committee suggests, it will be finished because it is a terrible long dog, and it is difficult to keep threads. On a third line or so, the thread is packed, and you have to start reading again. That is not how we want legislation. That was what we were trying to do with this change. Hv. paritaprevir I agree with Vilhjálmur Árnason that if we had had more time to review this particular article, we would have found a mutual conclusion about it. On the other hand, I want to correct only what was presented in his case when he felt that the product that we had here was the 2013 end of the bill, since it is not. We have, in fact, one version of the 1999 law by the Regulation, so we have a 2013 prime minister and then we have the results of the Commission under time pressure with all kinds of changes that include the irreparable sentences that farmers and farmers may drive on the outside, i.e. not necessarily in the interest of agriculture, they can only do so in general. That was the conclusion of the panel and of the 2013 Parliament. Then the Ministry, along with others, receives special consideration for this section, under guidance. Environment and Transport Committee, as referred to in 2014. What we're working with now is the product of it. It is not as if the result we have here is the 2013 work product but, in the process of reaching a good conclusion with this chapter, we are still, or I want to look at it. One thing I would like to state that has not yet been discussed with us regarding this particular change, and then we are in a bit technical, but in a material sense it is very important that the precaution is in here. The caution principle is referred to in the outdoor drive section, i.e. The precautions should be used there. We can use it only when we have to go out there and make decisions about not having an appointment. That's just where she's talking. When this is written into the text and does not have to be specifically accepted, it does not apply. So due to land transplants, lamination, road block, linework, and fixation of other services, rescue work, police work, medical transportation, research, land readings and agriculture, as there is no other way to do the work - for all of these cases, they fall outside of the precautionary principle of this implementation. With the approach we make, all these elements fall within the premeditation precautions outside the rescue work, police work, fire departments, and emergency transports that depend on a form of emergency transportation. I know it's not for them to get a lot of tension in the conference room, but the caution is given when such an important aspect is given. Many conservationists have said that driving outside may be the most threatening factor in nature. It is actually the most dangerous place to travel, and the most important thing is to pull the knots carefully and screw the screws tightly. That's the other point of our proposal. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall spoke here. Other than that, I think I've explained the case here for my share of the 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u5	A respectable president. Just a moment. This is the process we've been applying for laws on road transport, and I think that the descriptions that have been made by both major and smaller members of the council are correct. It is also true. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir said earlier that when we are not under law, we have the law to consult the EEA on environ ment, this is not a rule of caution. I just want to say one thing. Even if it's a fact, we're talking about an extra law. I believe that when we have a clear set of exceptions, it should be interpreted narrowly. It must also be considered in the context that we are in the committee's opinion of what nature is and what is not. We have also set up laws against all who misuse their rights. I think that even though this rule of caution does not apply to these strict precautions. I think and have always felt that when we're talking about an exception to something we'd like to forbid, they'd be better placed in the law than by the EEA's decision. - That's all.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u6	Mr. President. We're going to vote on 3rd. the bill for a law on nature protection, which has had a long reaction, as has been attributed to these discussions. During the last term, and we can say at the beginning of this terms, there was a bitter conflict over this matter, and there were many views. There were conflicting opinions over the many laws of the law that were approved here in the spring of 2013 and strongly debated. I believe that the conclusion that we have found in the trial at the council is very good. I think it's a step forward, and it's very important that we've reached the major issues we've had in these areas. We have found solutions that may not have been as each member of the Committee would have liked to have it, but together we have found solutions that humans are willing to live with. This is very good, and although this is not the end of a very important milestone, the discussions and even disagreements on individual issues involving nature's protection and efficiency. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u7	A respectable president. We're going to vote on 3rd. The bill to legalize nature protection. We look at an enormously important conclusion. We're talking about better and stronger nature protection laws but, according to current rights, much more legal for Icelandic nature. Time has worked with nature and has worked with natural protection in this regard, as has so many others. So I would like to use this special opportunity here to impress us all on our next challenge to the development of nature protection in Iceland, which is establishing a national park in the middle of the country, but last March more than 60% of Iceland supported that idea. It is growing in support, more than 5% in 2011. There's a lot of support here at the council. It is now proposed by an Environment and Transport Committee, and I believe that this is the next step we are to resolve to build a handsome national park in the middle of the country that will be taken around the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u8	A respectable president. I would like to briefly reiterate that I know that the position of all members of the Commission on the Environment Committee is, with the wording of a law on road transport, is not being given to those working on agriculture to drive off the road in the middle of the country, so that it is absolutely clear. That is the understanding of all members of the committee, and we may first discern the need to speak in that regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u9	A respectable president. This is an important vote on which we are in, which will clear and clear up environmental protection legislation from today. That's a big step around here. We are finally suing a legal code that was agreed on until the spring of 2013. As many have said, time has worked with this, as well as for the fundamental changes we see here in the country with the number of visitors that we see. That is a positive problem, but it does make it necessary for us to handle matters differently. As to this matter, I'm going to say that although we're following this and following the peace that we've achieved, there's always something we would've wanted to see differently. This does not change the fact that we now have a strong basis for coping with nature protection, hopefully into the long future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u10	A respectable president. It is a milestone, a turning point. We are now accepting laws on nature protection that will hopefully last many years. This conclusion came primarily through cooperation, and when people think back, I hope that their main concern is that with cooperation, they can reach a good conclusion. In the greater part, we will not be able to support the adjustment proposal that comes from the lesser part. It may be primarily that I believe that it is clearer and better to have clear rules in the Law text itself rather than evaluate tasks to the EEA. I have felt that lyrics should be explained. I feel that this law is marked by a clear text that has been passed through it. Other than that, I say once again, congratulations to the Senate and congratulations to all Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u11	A respectable president. I am delighted and delighted that new nature protection laws are becoming reality. These are laws that explain the rules of play, and this is a big step in protecting Iceland's nature. These are laws that place increased demands on the ministry and its agencies, but we are ready for that work. Good speech sometimes takes some long time to reach maturity, and this is one of them. I believe that we have needed this time to be better prepared for it, also because of the fact that in two years our reality has changed considerably, especially with vast numbers of tourists. That is why we have needed these years to resolve matters. I congratulate all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u12	A respectable president. I recommend a proposal for a interpretation of a mental health policy and action programme until four years. The presentation of this case is in accordance with Congress resolution No. 8/143, where a health minister was assigned to work on a mental health and mental health policy programme in cooperation with social and housing minister and to submit to the General Assembly. One of the main objectives and three subtargets is defined in the Parliament's resolution proposal. A protocol is also set out to achieve target targets for each action as well as the timing of their implementation. The definition of this arrangement itself is divided into three chapters entitled ▪ Compatibility and continuous service to people with psychiatric disorders and their families, the development, the prevention, and the third, the discrimination and discrimination. The first chapter provides a goal for mental - health activities to be integrated and consistent. It is not a coincidence that this is the first chapter because lack of coordination of services and service levels is something that is generally complained about chronic diseases in general, and this point was focused on the preparation of this synonym. The chapter suggests, among other things, that rural communities and countries work together on the implementation of integrated services to persons suffering from psychiatric disorders in relevant territories. It is also suggested to improve the availability of psychology services in the medical facility by increasingly recruiting psychologists at clinics. It is suggested that cross-cutting mental health and social services will be started so that mental - health professionals who suffer from psychiatric disorders can be treated in an environment where there is also a suggestion to promote the knowledge of mental and mental health in such areas as mild mental illness. They suggest that the Children's Youth Department, BUGL, be strengthened in the coming years to eliminate any incompetent long waiting lists there. It is expected that specific health care projects will be implemented to increase the support of parents'children with psychiatric disorders. It also suggests building knowledge in nursing homes so that they are better equipped to serve people with mental illness. The second chapter, for mental - health and prevention, provides the goal that children's upbringing will contribute to their well - being, their mental well - being, and their social well - being. Therefore, the most direct approach is to children, where prevention measures to reduce the risk of children developing mental problems will result in the greatest results and the greatest increase in quality of life in the long term. True, prevention is also important for adults, but it took priority, and we put children in first place in making this policy. The proposed actions include setting up a multi-annual team in the area of education, training, counseling and parental support, and searching for effective mental - health practices in schools. It is suggested that childhood anxiety and depression be screened among high school children, followed by appropriate treatment and that a team be established to find effective ways to reduce suicide among young people, as well as to estimate the cost of induction and implementation. The third chapter considers prejudice and discrimination. Sadly, people with mental illness are still known to be prejudiced by society. The goal of this chapter is that people will not be discriminated against on the basis of mental health. For example, the actions taken to this purpose include the founding of critical methods for reducing prejudice toward mental - health professionals and providing guidance for the media on how to deal with mental health problems without the development of prejudices. One action aims to hire people with mental disorders and to see if they are at work affects the attitude of colleagues toward people with psychiatric disorders. It is also suggested that a part of the general health assessment of the inmates of coming to the country must evaluate their mental health. The cost of the procedure has been tested to the best degree. A few measures are considered within public projects, but the total cost of the proposal in the four years is about 562 million. There, the cost of mental - health care, the cost of psychiatric recruitment at clinics, and the cost of promoting the services of child-adolescents at Lands Hospital is one of the most important costs. During the preparation and work of this council arrangement, two main factors were guided. One was to have the most extensive consultation as the close of time and time allowed; however, the project was to work to establish a policy that would be clear, effective, and effective in four years. At the beginning of the project, an open-label presentation meeting was held and the project was planned to be done. At that meeting, a group of micro work rooms were held where meeting men had the opportunity to offer tips and suggestions for a representative of the assigned task group. As a result, five subsets were employed, each group discussed a specific component of mental health and provided suggestions for the management group. This work included a number of suggestions, all of which were relevant in the suggestions presented here. However, in order to make a suggestion that is possible over the next four years, as mentioned earlier, the selection and setting of priorities had to be made. This has been done and is the conclusion of the priorities presented here in the synopsis discussed here. It is noted that the Synod arrangement was applied to the Ministry of Health for review. All who had participated in the activities of the groups or attended the press conference were sent to indicate that the proposal had come to the Ministry's Web, with a total of 28 reviews. On this occasion, I want to thank all those who have been involved in this work, the two steering teams, as well as all other fine people. I'd also like to mention it here, at the end of my case, that there is reason to celebrate the awareness that has taken place in this class, in my mental health matters, and to mention here that I had yesterday the opportunity to meet with the brain, which is the juvenile Council of UNICEF, which is interested in this work and has, in fact, set out a clear and specific requirement for action management. A respectable president. In this case, I have explained the basics of the proposal presented here. It is my hope that it can strengthen the position of people who have mental illness and who can also help support families in their role of parenting and reduce the risk of spirituality among children and young people. Finally, I would like to suggest that the proposal be followed by the discussion that follows, referred to why. The welfare committee and subsequent discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u13	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Health Minister for the best practice. It was about a year in the processing of this program, and since then it has been in postoperatively until it reaches us now. I'd especially like to welcome you to the suggestion that there is a budget, which in four years is about 562 billion. K. It will become evident in the support of the committee what might be needed and what might be done better, but I am truly happy about this work and want to thank the highest degree. Minister for her. There's two things I'd like to ask the highest. Minister in. On the one hand, it is Part A.6, where services at the BUGL walk department will be promoted. It accounts for 29 million. K. This year, starting in 2017. Of course, there is a serious situation. I'd like to ask you why it hasn't been right now next year when the money was in there. Then it is Part A.9, to meet the growing needs of mental - health people for housing and service. There's only financing in 2016 to 33.1 billion. K. It seems to me that this is inexplicable, and I was going to get a better explanation for the Minister's funding.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u14	A respectable president. Thank you for the answer, and a pleasant and good reaction. Thank you very much. The honor of this work goes to people who were directing and who worked very well at a set of hours, only to a limited amount of time. It is true that policies and measures are timed, responsible, and costly goals. In 2016, I remember the cost of about 111 million. K. ... buta total of 562 billion. K. In time, we will work out how to finance 2017, 2018, and 2019. Hv. On the one hand, a senator asks about the proposal of A.6, about the ministry of BUGL. She came in after a remark, and when we had set up a frame and suggested into the budget, we did not find a place for her. So we took in a comment that we received during the review process and entered the proposal to the council. I agree with that. In view of the discussion and the situation, a senator is not helping. I'll be the first to rejoice if we're going to the council to speed up the emphasis there must be. About a question why. In particular, I would like to mention that this proposal has been taken only in this regard, especially in Reykjavík. For a while, we had a lot of space in Klepps Hospital busy with people who couldn't get out because they needed farm planning. Happily, it has been improved, especially in the city of Reykjavík, so that it should be welcomed and thanked. Yet, we still thought that there was reason to keep this point very rigid because it has been a barrier, not just now, but through the years, to the possibility that people with mental illness might have a suitable place for living. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u15	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the answers. That was a good explanation for A.6, and it would be a pleasure if we were to achieve a change now at 2nd. The money and the money we could get for Pediatrics. But for A.9, I'd like to ask you a little bit more. What do these 33.1 billion have? K. to go, how does that make a contribution? This is a single-change process, is this some kind of foundation development to help the communities, or what is involved in this money? What's she thinking?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u16	A respectable president. Regarding the proposal for living in A.9, it is intended as a uniting operation in rural areas to separate the hospital in particular from saving people in the hospital, who actually have no purpose in living there. There is a much better life and a better opportunity with a free home in the community. That's what this suggestion is all about.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u17	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A minister for this strategy and agrees with what has been presented, that it is time and time. There are exciting challenges that we will face in forwarding our schedule. I've been thinking about farm plans. I think it's a short time if we're thinking about the whole country in that relationship, not just the capital area. It says, by permission of the President: ▪ What an amazing goal: The current group of mental - health graduates has moved to the appropriate facilities by the end of 2016. Does this apply only to Reykjavík, or is it also in Akureyri or elsewhere where people are in public institutions that should not be the basis for their condition? Then I'd like to ask about B. 3, which speaks of screening for anxiety, depression, and the effects of trauma among children in high school. It mentions Breiðholt, which has been screened for these factors in the cooperation of the Breinholt Service Centre and the Breiðholt core schools since 2009. It is referred to as the project Thinking and Health, which is said to be a practical approach based on some of the factors. for aggressive behavioural treatment. Then, direct screening for symptoms of serious depression occurs at 9th grade school. Is the project Brave and Greeting All over the country? Or is it just in Breinholt? That's what I wanted to ask you at the first hour.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u18	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. About a question why. The candidate for the screening procedure mentioned in Proposition B.3, the two models to be considered and looked into, the whole country will be placed if and when we go to the screening, that is simply the case. Then, about the hierarchical resources. A senator asked about them there is nothing like that to distribute except a Klppus hospital where we really have people tied in that is no longer for direct medical treatment in a hospital. A kupplat is the only amount of service available in mental - health matters where people are locked up in a hospital because they cannot get out again. We have no similar problems in other parts of the country. I agree with what. A senator in that there are many exciting projects and will find it interesting to see the fruitage they bear and happy to have the opportunity to submit this arrangement. I mean that the suggestion is very well done in that it tries to channel a number of attitudes that have been involved in mental health for a long time but that are substantially scattered in the system and among the people. I have hoped that all of them in the same policy plan will bring us far more and better results than we have so far reached this health - care profession.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u19	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I assume they're going to be in all 9th grade. But has this been attempted only in Breiðholti? That's what I was looking for, whether it was done somewhere else until now. Then I'd like to ask about Breinholt's mental health center. She was on the news during the summer on this experiment project that has had good results, as it turns out. Hospitalisations were reported to have decreased by 25% and days by 198 a year. It said that money was missing in order to continue because it was a test project. Has that been guaranteed? I understand the government is going to make its proposal to the second. The budget of November 20th. So may we expect something about this document in particular?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u20	A respectable president. For asking why. A senator to see if there's anything else she can expect from the government for 2nd. Money is a pleasure to hear what hopes are bound to the government and the budget. We had planned on our work on the budget and the sharing of the budget problem that we have to adapt to the Department of Health for the implementation of this policy, even though we had not already submitted it for the council. But it may be that the factor here was the anti-adolescents issue that it would be perfectly normal for us to examine it in the cooperation of the Ministry and the Congress because of the budget to speed it up rather than drive it into 2017. For meditation and health and screening, the project has been run in many countries, including the U.S.A. In Akureyri, which is, as we know, me and what. A senator, a unit in our excellent Northeast district.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u21	A respectable president. I'm glad this council mishap has come out. So when I was an innocent citizen, before I went to the council, I simply thought that the government was always working on a policy in all important matters, especially in such matters. So I was surprised when I sat down at a council to see how many lawsuits are small and to be making random decisions out and south. So I feel that this is a complete step in the right direction. In effect, I understand that although I had certainly wanted to see more in there, I would want to make suggestions, but I understand the point. What worries me when I look at the cost of my lunch is that while it's good to get this overview and try to get an estimate of the cost, I think a lot of factors are in the frame of the budget, and I'm afraid that we're always adding to the pressure and added jobs without assuming it takes people to work them. I think it's too many joints, and I think it's well out of hand with 562 million. I would have thought this kind of effort might cost maybe 2 billion, if that was right. I think this amount here, 500 million, is hardly the cost of the debt crisis, just to put it in perspective with something else. I'd like to ask if it's the highest. Ministers consider this to be realistic, whether he would not want to see more money, for as shown in the report, the cost will be saved longer if successful. We are the nation that uses the most of antidepressants, the number of them in analysis, and a lot of drugs in the form of hyperactivity, attention deficits, and so forth. You would have thought that if this were done with full force and properly, money would be saved for a considerable period of time. I think that's a small amount, I have to say it, and maybe not quite realistic.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u22	A respectable president. Thank you. The answer to that question, and it can once again tell us that the very least of our resources is to be donated to the health - care sector. I'm going to give you a heads-up. A senator on the cost analysis of this is simply that this is a work done by the Office of the Ministry and is done according to the highest knowledge there. In itself, this is certainly not a large sum of 560 million in four years, in the larger context. But we may also be well aware of how much we can accomplish by means of relatively small financial resources in this category. My assessment is that this is a well-designed document and the cost analysis is the best available in this analysis. There are factors in which there may be room within the framework of these institutions or that there are groups being established, and the general rule in the state is that it is not paid for seating or working in groups of work. I agree with that with what. A senator said it was a rather aimless group. We're getting into it. We are now making this mental - health policy, which is the first one we would be involved in. We're working on a gerontism policy, and I hope we can introduce it at the beginning of the next year. We are also working on a cancer policy. Then we're making plans to have a long - term health program that actually surrounds the whole system. She'll be here at the end.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u23	A respectable president. I think we all agree that this is a good step in the right direction. I agree with the highest. A minister that there is often little work to be done for, especially in this category, and can make good use of the available knowledge and energy. But I think it's too much because there's going to be room within the framework of the budget. We're just gonna see, and we're gonna make the most of it. Minister on the subject. I'd like to ask about C.4 on page 5. 6 That they will be evaluated in a routine of health evaluations by those who seek refuge. I think it's a very good thing. I have asked questions about lawsuits that are inmates with mental health problems - we have had one of the greatest examples. A minister will surely know well - whether he will be available somewhere in this program. Thus, those who face this challenge may be more involved in crime and need special assistance and service. Is it somehow written in the plan?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u24	A respectable president. Yeah, I appreciate that, if anything. Councilmen intend to maintain this policy. I will, of course, readily accept it and try to practice it myself as well with those who are expected to enforce what comes as the product of the Allegorium out of the work that lies ahead. I think we all share that thought together in trying to improve the service of the State of this class. I think all of us agree that there's no need to be. That's what I'm talking about. As far as I know, a senator asks about prisoners in particular is to start a group of people with mental health issues. In the work discussed here, it is assumed that a multidisciplinary team, a mental - health team, will be established that will cooperate with a prison facility and with the medical facility to cooperate with the affairs of mental - health professionals. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u25	V.E.G. President. How glad I am that the proposal for a judicial resolution on health policy and procedures has now been submitted to four years of age! I am very proud today to have made the proposal that was the basis for this action plan. In the autumn of 2013, I made a pact proposal for such an action plan to be prepared. At my suggestion, there was a reason. The members of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, Björt Ólafsdóttir, Birgitta Jónsdóttir, Guðbjartur Hannesson, Mól Hjörvar, Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Oddný G. Harðardóttir Magnússon. I'd like to make a few words about this proposal. She's coming into the welfare committee now, and we'll send her out for review. Even if this is not the first time the proposal will be issued for comment, we will have some comments. It was a well - worked task, taking into account some, as noted in the countereminent minister earlier. I know that some people are concerned that there's not enough work to be covered on ADHD. Similarly, there is concern about mental health in regard to the birth of a child, saying that it is better to protect the relationship between parents and infants in this program. I realize, of course, that this is not the perfect plan, but I think it's working well. It is based on a set frame, and it is a very positive, good first step. Thank you for the team that won this. He was led by Guðrún's Sigurjónsdóttir, who did a very good job. I observed only the work of the group, and everything was exemplary. In addition to the number of people mentioned in the Package Leaflet III, there were some naturalists in the group meeting at a meeting or a presentation meeting. Since this proposal was submitted, there has been an even greater awakening in the discussion of mental health, the importance of having good mental health, and the effectiveness and availability of services to those who are ill, whether people are severely ill or whose quality of life have been reduced because of minor psychiatric disorders. It is important to meet people as soon as possible to prevent serious illness. Let us bear in mind that this plan, if successful, is important for those who enjoy the ministry, is equally important when we consider that the main cause of disability is mental illness. The main objective of mental health policy is, by permission of a president: ▪ Aside from the quality of life and better mental health of the people of the country, more and more are involved in the social activities of people with less or longer - term psychiatric disorders regardless of their habitat. Those are beautiful goals. There is also a subsidiary that services to mental - health individuals are integrated and consistent, that children's parenting conditions contribute to their well - being, and that there are no differences between individuals on the basis of mental health. There are some actions I'd like to talk about here. I had cross-checked that the proposal follows a budget. Of course, all of us would have liked to see more money go in there, but we do see that in the next four years, 562 new ones come into mental health. Then we need to see if there is any reason why we at the council are pressing on for further financial support. It is a goal for people to experience a more integrated ministry, to work on integrating it, and that in 2020 70% of the service is considered to be integrated and consistent. That's not in the suggestion, not so I've seen what the situation is now. It would be important to know, so we know whether these are ambitious goals. Then we're here to talk about the kids. That is especially to prevent mental health problems from moving from generation to generation. In my speech while we were agreeing to this proposal at the council, I covered this point quite thoroughly. It is very important to consider that children and families of those who have mental problems. One of the most impressive proposals here is that of psychologists at the clinic, that it will be promoted. As early as the next year, we see evidence in the budget that there is a growing number of psychologists in the medical profession. The increase should continue in the coming years so that at 90% of clinic clinics there will be access to the most widely used psychiatric treatments, such as depression, anxiety disorder, and post-traumatic stress. The goal is 50% by the end of 2017, so there is a real need for action there, and it goes up to 90% by the end of 2019. What a joy it is that we are already involved in the budget! There'll be a lot of money in the service and a lift for the health care department. Regarding the services of the BUGL walk department, it is very important that it be strengthened. I think we're going to see if we're not now trying to find a budget for 2016 to get it started right away. The need for housing and service should then be met with a cumulative need for mental - health professionals. I think the committee will take a good look at it and if there's enough funding for it. Here are ambitions and good goals for mental activity and prevention. This includes a multidisciplinary team in close - to - earth education, training, counseling, and support of parents and families. It is important that we consider helping people when they are starting their role as parents and that people are being helped as quickly as possible to prevent the problem from growing over the years. It's time to step in. It is also suggested that anxiety, depression, and trauma be screened among high school children and provided appropriate support for treatment if considered at risk. This project will be started immediately next year. I think everybody agrees that it'll be a great deal of improvement. Here's a chapter on prejudice and discrimination. In particular, I would like to talk about parts of C.3 that state and rural society employ people who have come out of work markets for chronic mental activity in their institutions. It is a model project and is to be done with a picture - scaler. Of course, it is important that people are not excluded from society because of illness. Rather, they give the opportunity for full participation, if well done, to recover, or to feel better. As I told them, since the year 2013 of the proposal, there has been a great increase in mental - health discussion since January 2014. Patient groups have become more relevant during the increasing discussion. It's a pleasure to have medical funds already made up of psychological services and development centres for the ADHD analysis. It may be the biggest weakness of the proposal that ADHD problem is not properly tore up, but in the context of the Committee we will see if it does not have to get it in here only, as there is an undiagnosed ADHD problem for people in the community who are not able to use their skills because of these neurological disorders or what you should say and should receive adequate treatment and medication as needed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u26	A respectable president. I would like to express my joy in this resolution and thank all those involved. It is always a pleasure to see that the Council's decision to bring forth the fruit as it is here. I also like this piece of paper to get an overview of the service available to us in the country, and it shows how many different and different nationalities it really is. In fact, in the Senate proposal, it says that there may not be everything mentioned, but I just want to call attention to one treatment at the University of Akureyri; maybe the Ministry is sharing whether it's school or therapy, but as I know Hostage School, he is actually a very important treatment that has landed between ships and docks in some way. This may show how varied the treatment can be and in different locations. I would also like to point out that on page 19. 17 is the point of A.7, which refers to the establishment of an Internet telecommunication group that knows if telecommunications service could be used to treat people for mental disorders. Then I want less than I can. The Minister of Health says that the Council's resolution proposal for the future was adopted in us for distant health care. Somehow it must work together. [[Up front.]] Yeah, it's about to start, and it's here, so it's all working, so it's not being recycling things - but I know that the top. Minister has it all figured out. It's working well. Maybe I'll say something like what. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingadóttir, who belonged to the council concluded that I might have liked to see more emphasis on children and teenagers, but I suppose there's a complicated process. So I'm not gonna be negative here. If this plan succeeds for the next four years, we've taken a huge step already. All I'm worried about is the budget's too close. It turns them, like the highest. A minister may point out that we are here at the council, trying to deal with it. But maybe I would have liked to have a little more ambition in this regard, even though I'm not going to go out and argue with some employees in the Ministry of finance who probably do this to the best of my ability. I only walked in on the prisoners in my counter, which I love not to forget, and the highest. Minister said an Outfit is in the business of prisoners. I don't think I'm extending this. I'm excited to see the reviews coming in and whether this proposal will change in the case of the Committee. I would like to see that we tried to speed up the task that is not expected immediately next year if we could. I feel that there are very many urgent and needed tasks that we should have started 20 years ago, some of which will not begin until 2017 or 2018, even 2019. That we're gonna push this over as soon as we can, I'd like to see some cash in starting earlier and being more on the way of 2019. I thank you for the good stuff, and I'll keep an eye on it, even if I don't sit on a welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u27	V.E.G. President. As mentioned, we here discuss a proposal for a resolution of policy and a mental health plan for four years. This is a very important suggestion that has the primary objective of improving well - being and improving the mental well - being of the people of the country and of participating in community activities of short or long - term psychiatric conditions regardless of their habitat. Mostly, I wanted to go to a few things about the proposal. I am so delighted that this council arrangement has been established and that the objectives and measures it contains are set out. The basic objective of the proposal is, as mentioned in the Sermon on the Mount. Healthcare Minister, that services to mental - health individuals are integrated and consistent, that child rearing conditions contribute to their well - being and that people will not be divided on the basis of mental health. For example, if we examine only sub-targets 1, that services to mental - health individuals are integrated and consistent, it is stated that states and rural communities will cooperate with agreements for the implementation of integrated services to mental - health individuals. This is set forward with the aim of increasing cooperation between government and rural services. This includes members such as the social, health, educational, and team members, surgeons, health institutions, educational and cultural services, and rural areas, and the services of the disabled. Another plan, under the help of A.3, includes the availability of psychiatrists'services at clinics and clinics that operate according to the assembly and size of services. This is suggested by means of the ability to receive treatment and the support of psychiatrists at medical clinics because of the most common mental disorders, such as depression and anxiety disorders. I am delighted that there are steps to take in this material in a budget for 2015, which includes increasing the number of psychologists in medical institutions and clinics by eight during 2016. It works according to a British model that aims to have one psychologist on every 9,000 inhabitants and works according to that plan until 2020 to achieve that goal, but it is extremely important to increase the number of psychologists in order to improve public access to it. In addition, it is necessary to cover the expenses that individuals have to pay for today's psychological services, but the cost is that I think, at about $13,000 a single time. Another plan, under Team A.6, is that services in the BUGL walk department will be extended with the intention of shortening a waiting list so that children do not have to wait for service. Sadly, today's fact is that children and young people have to wait too long for the department's service. I am glad that in time, it will show that 2019 C.E., the list of schedulers in the BUGL department should have been eliminated. I must admit, though, that for individuals with problems and their families, time is a little long, but it is worth rejoicing that steps are taken in order to cut down and eliminate the list. It is likely that a person who receives assistance when needed, when possible to cope with problems as soon as possible and as well as at best, gain a better feeling, study, that the family can do their daily activities, and that all these individuals can put their things into the community in the form of education or employment, etc. But what really matters is that these individuals feel better. I'm going to move on to a few things that fall under the underlying goal of 2, which is that child - rearing conditions contribute to their well - being, their good mental well - being, and their social well - being. It is planned that a cross-cutting team will be established in the vicinity of their education, training, counseling, and support of parents and families. The objective is to support parents in their role of parenting and care, and it is planned that a cross-cutting team of professional workers be established in the cooperation of the state and rural society that provide services in close cooperation with health care, social and school. I'd like to celebrate this law in particular. I know from my own experience how important this factor is. I've had a diagnostic procedure with a child who's had disability analysis. The factors I knew involved a cross-cutting team that received instruction, training, counseling, and support after the analysis was completed. There were parents, caregivers, the staff who worked with the individual and others who arrived there. The experience I know about this work has given me a good experience, including a meeting of candidates and all the people around it, to see how the person has dealt with and what goals are involved and how to continue to contribute to the best of his or her well - being. That's a big celebration for me. This will undoubtedly strengthen individuals and those who live in such a situation. The next schedule, which will have sub-target 2, joint B.3, is to be screened for anxiety, depression, and trauma among children in top school and given appropriate support or treatment if considered at risk. The goal is to interrupt and give early attention to children who suffer from anxiety and the consequences of trauma in order to reduce the risk of getting worse. As shown in a paper with the Parliament's resolution proposal, these issues have been developed in the Breiðholt since 2009. It has been screened for depression, including one of those things, and anxiety among youths. These are the cooperation projects of the Breiðholt Service Centre and the Breiðholt core schools. Following the omission of a screening list, all parents of children who are measured above the risk criteria have been called, interviewed, and studied, pointing out ways. This has given us a lot of experience. If certain serious signs appear, parents will be called on that day, informed about the position, and called for an interview. The course offered regarding these factors is based on mental behavioral treatments that have been very effective. I'd like to mention a goal that's based on a concierge proposal at which point. paritaprevir The son of Garðarsson, who was appointed by him at the council last session. His case was decommissioned here at the Assembly Hall, and he next went to the hospital. The welfare committee, where this was taken for release and referred to the Ministry for the work that was going to shape the mental health action program that we are discussing here and now. Another factor, which falls under the sub-target of section 2, section B.4, is the development of a plan for the implementation of more advanced ways to reduce the suicide of young people. Here it is important that the matter goes on rapidly and carefully and that people who need help receive it when they need it. Therefore, the budget for 2016 is a growing number of psychologists, as noted earlier in order to increase their availability. If we look at sub-targets 3, there we will discuss prejudice and discrimination and work at being nonconformable on the basis of mental health. Unfortunately, it has been decided in this country, if you allow, by the permission of a president, to say so. Sadly, too many have not trusted in telling others what is wrong with spiritual illness. Too often it has been hidden under other things, as if people couldn't make it because they had a stomach attack or a headache, I think we all know some examples of it. I believe that the principle stated in sub-target 3 is very important, to work on prejudice and discrimination that I believe has so diminished in recent years. So I welcome a campaign or a wake - up in regard to this group of subjects called ◯I am not a tabulator, where people are about to step up and report their illness. A respectable president. I'm very proud of the wake of awareness I've become. I believe it helps many, and it can reduce prejudice. In addition to what we are getting ahead of these measures, including public agencies, various community institutions, and members of the community, I believe that prejudice will decrease and the services will be increased. But we need funding in this way so that we can follow the schedule outlined in this operation plan. Hv. The well - being committee will take this important connotation proposal for material discussion and payment. I look forward to that job. It is vital that the matter be handled well, for it has to do with the interests of many people.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u28	Mr. President. I'm going to address a conquistador proposal for a four-year mental health health programme. It is good to make such plans, and words are immediately available. It is good to try to focus on the immediate futures in this class as well as on so many others. Of course, these are very important issues, of which I think we do not argue. V.E.G. Health Ministers have stressed the availability of psychiatrists at health clinics and clinics throughout the country so that people can search for that service early in the process. I'm most concerned that there may be trouble, but I really hope that it will not be, and that we can serve the people of this country anywhere, at least in all the largest human settlements, so people don't have to go through very long distances to get such a service. Here, the matter is divided into several chapters A, B, and C, and sub-targets and such. The plan is four years old, and I think there's some optimism there. I agree with what was said to a minister earlier, but I'm worried that the money isn't enough. Of course, it will be at the end of the check-in plan in connection with the preparation of budgets each year and the costs it may meet. I don't consider these numbers to be final, but things can change in the next few years. I find a number of interesting things presented here, such as the group of people who are going to be assigned to see if they can perform some form of telecommunications that could be used to treat people with psychiatric disorders. I find it interesting because, of course, there are changing times and although you would like to sit with the other person in front of the real world in such delicate matters, this may be a solution, for example, for someone who has difficulty going out of the house because of his mental illness or who simply cannot reach a caregiver. Therefore, it would be good if such a matter could be solved by telecommunications. I think it's interesting. In fact, this group should not produce until January 2018. I don't know exactly why he should take so long. That may be in line with another arrangement in this synonym. I haven't read it through, i.e. I've been reading fast, but don't go right into it. Several groups of work should be set up, including suggestions for mental - health activities in school. Somehow I thought it had been done, but it may no longer be possible to build on it. This may be the most necessary time for the work to move as everyone first because the problems are often the most, i.e. when it comes to children and young people with some form of disorders who need a lot of help. It may be important for their future to be taken into consideration at an early age. There should be no recommendation for the work group until the end of 2017, i.e. After two years. I feel that it is too late, and I would like to see a health committee think a little bit more about if that job could be accelerated. There's something else here that you can think about. Among other things, there have been projects that have been going on in many parts of the country and that have succeeded, including those in the South. These include the ART, which requires continued support from the government and would be interesting to see if it comes in there. It is not stated specifically when listed in the HCPs what has been done and what alternatives have been made. At least it's not specific. But I hope that since this project has given us a tremendous trial, as it has been so many times, as has been seen, new ones, save large sums of money for a long time, and lead to less out - of - control in society, people who would otherwise not have been able to participate in society because they did not receive much help or resources in the past. We've talked about mental health status in Northern America, one of the reasons why the only active pediatric psychiatrist has formally retired from work, at least in Akureyri, but he used to do a very large area. As of now, the minister of a professional team has been set up in connection with the child-adolescents at the Akureyri Hospital. It solves certain problems, but not all of them. You don't necessarily have to do teamwork. It may be necessary to get to a general childhood and adolescent psychiatrist. Of course, there is also concern that there are still very few who are learning that feature at the university. True, we need to try to encourage others to accept it, for there is a great need. It says right here that 120 children are waiting for the services of Pediatrics, but that's just a fraction of the waiting children. It was observed during the day that some 1,000 families in various parts of the community are waiting for some kind of assistance because of their mental illness. This also discusses what I asked the highest. Minister to earlier, i.e. the screening proposed to take place in 9th grade all over the country. Among other things, the experience in Breiðholti has been quoted, that has been tried to improve a serious situation and has gone very well. Actually, it's the city that deals mostly with the mental team I've been talking about earlier, and I think when we see a reduction in the rate of 200 people every year, or 25 to 628%, it must have an effect and something we want to emphasize. Such resources cost my community and reduces the pain of those involved. A respectable president. As we often do when we are discussing a big matter, so time is quick to pass. There's a lot under here. A mental - health attitude is being referred to. It suggests that both the media and the employers and others think outside the box and set aside prejudices that have often existed. When discussing violent cases in the media, we are often talking about some disorder or mental disorder that is placed in the same box, which, of course, is not right. Regarding C.5 teams, which are encouraged to hire people who have become out of work because of chronic mental illness, I really hope that professional drivers will accept it and I encourage them to give them a chance. We need to open it up through the whole system to become desperate, people who have become insane because of mental problems have the opportunity to get into part - time work with support from the State or the local community of the common professional and to have the opportunity to reconnect in society so that people feel as if they are doing any good. So I encourage not only countries and rural groups but also general companies to work with people who have had this problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u29	A respectable president. I agree with others here who have talked about this document and this policy is a great deal of joy. I mean, I mean, seriously because I often come up here and maybe start out to celebrate something just because they all celebrate something, but it really makes me happy, because there were few things I could find more interesting in my work as the vice president of the city of Reykjavík in the last half than there was a need for policy in the affairs of mental health professionals and people with various kinds of mental disorders. There was a great lack of comprehensive policy in that case, and this has caused him much difficulty over a long period of time. Many of the problems that arose were often caused by some sort of bite between the State and the local community about who was to do what and how to do it. Fortunately, many of these factors are being handled here. There's one thing I wanted to lift up and talk about here and I think it's very important to figure in this direction in some way, but there's issues of two or those with psychiatric disorders and addictions. It is the most difficult group to identify because addiction takes over a few other things, and it is difficult to identify people with underlying psychiatric disorders. As a result, these individuals do not receive proper service. This is exactly the most prominent group in the homeless. Reykjavíkur has tried to take good care of him in my opinion, although, of course, it may always be better, but she has been on her own for a long time, even though the outposts do not just come from the gang or from Grafarvogur, they come from all over the country. I would want to see this more clearly because mental illness and mental illness often lead to addiction or addiction. So it is closely related, and this group often needs much service. I'd like to mention in terms of special emphasis on youths and children, that there is a group of psychiatricly injured, usually young men, for some reason that I don't know how to explain, who in no circumstances are able to perform an adequate service today. This is often accompanied by a great degree of mental illness and psychiatric disorders. I encourage this to be taken into the work of the Committee in a clearer way. Other than that, I wanted to lift up something that I think is good here, and that is the focus on children and families. Mental - health disorders are essentially a debilitating influence on the entire family. Especially are children and relatives of those who suffer from mental illness who also need much help. That is exactly where I wanted to point to Breiðholt's mental health center, mentioned in this piece of paper that is a very important and valuable project. It was a neighborhood in Reykjavík, where most psychiatric emergency treatment took place, but as mentioned here, it has decreased by 28% after this project began in Breiðholti. If we just look at the cost, there will be enormous expense, not to mention increasing the quality of life of those involved, since it is helping people to be self - helprs and families to cope with the consequences of the disease and the challenges of daily living that result from living with a mental illness for longer or shorter time. Another important thing to me is that I find this clear statement that the list of lists should be destroyed. I just hope that it will follow the budget needed, and that's where I want to say it. paritaprevir Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir's responsibility for the financial expenses involved. Are we asking the staff to run faster? If so, I don't like it because it's where I think staff are under a lot of pressure and a lot of burnout, normal. This is often a very difficult time in which the whole family needs to be brought into because it has to be with children. In this context, I also wanted to raise up the affairs of children with serious psychiatric disorders and developmental disorders. I asked the highest. Social and housing minister for the service of severely developmentally impaired children and adolescents. The answer states that this group of litigators was not financed by the transfer of groups of disabled people to rural society and that there is an improvement in the coming budget. I don't think it's in the fund to make up for it, because it's been revealed from the transfer that this service was completely irresponsible. It needs to be added. Also, I would like to mention the screening after depression and anxiety in the 9th grade, which has been carried out in Breiðholti and has led to great success and loss of analysis. I heard from somewhere /or there talk that it was about 50%, which, of course, is not just the result of this screening but also other factors. However, it states that human things that are done in our system, such as service to people whose lives are so important at one time. Although they may be able to spend much at first, they reduce the cost elsewhere. This collective thought in helping people to self - help wherever they are at each time is extremely important. Therefore, I think it is very important that we do not forget the addiction side of mental illness, whether it is caused by addiction or vice versa. Another thing I wanted to say is disability and mental illness. I don't know exactly what it's like to fix our disability system so that people don't stick on disability, i.e. if they have mental illness for a certain time. I have very rarely heard from people who have these diseases that it is a tendency to move on to disability and not to dare out of that system again because it loses its benefits and hence their livelihood. It is a bad system because it does not encourage self - help and does not encourage them to stand on their own feet. These diseases are often such that they come in waves of some kind and go, then they come back. Our system has to adapt, not the people, to the system we've installed. Otherwise I reiterate that I expect to be made even better on this team at the welfare committee's work, but thank you so much and thank you very much. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingvegura Ingadóttir in particular for putting the matter into motion at the time, and I'm so happy that this policy is seeing the day.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u30	Mr. President. I'd like to like others here who have spoken about today's proposal for a concierge of mental health and policies until four years of age. I find it especially positive that with the suggestion that the main objective of the mental - health policy is an increased well - being and better mental health of the country, and more active social activities of long - term or short - term or longer - term psychiatric patients, regardless of their habitats, are accompanied by a cost - and - cost estimate. It simply says in the suggestion, by permission of the president: The Council concluded that the following measures and measures will be carried out on mental health issues of four years and that it will be expected to be carried out on budgets. I think it's an enormously positive and enormous advantage that this is going to cost money, but it's time to find out if this is the amount of money we're putting into it. At least I think it's a good, positive start that the project is on its way to over 563 billion. K. There are some things I would like to draw out and make the subject of what I think is quite positive. It should be mentioned first by the post - A.3 office that deals with the availability of psychiatrists at medical clinics and clinics that care for health care. That's what I think is extremely important and a lot of equations, therefore the cost of going to an independent psychologist is very high and is probably beyond the reach of many people who truly need psychological services. I think moving the Psychological Service into the closer environment at the first stop will also benefit everyone, as is stated in a report. Another thing that I especially like is the objective set in A.6 that discusses the development of a new services in the BUGL walk department. The goal is to shorten a waiting list so that children do not have to wait long for service. As discussed above, the waiting period is now way too long, the average waiting period is nine months, but it can be up to 18 months. How vital that children and young people be cared for so that they can find out as soon as possible! I would also like to mention that in A.8, knowledge of nursing homes will be built to render services to elderly people if they are facing mental difficulties. I think this is a case that the nation is becoming aware of, that older people can also have mental problems. In a society where people are increasing in average age and older people are growing, it is simply extremely important that they be taken into consideration, and this is part of the mental - health movement. Then I'd like to spend most of my time discussing operations in part C of the plan, which is the review of fate and discrimination. The sub-target target, a sub-target 3, is that people will not be discriminated against on the basis of mental health. A report entitled Fat People and Despair as members of a rural community published in 2013 examined the public's view of disabled persons. It shows that respondents who are so common in the world do not agree that those with developmental impairment or mental illness sit in their districts, in their care, in their children's businesses, or in their social dealings. While people in general may not agree that people with mental illness are mentally impaired, they are more positive about motorists, deaf people, or blind people. In addition, it was found that respondents were more displeased with the fact that a man with a mental illness was caring for children than a woman with a mental illness. I feel that this point is of utmost importance to me when we speak of prejudice and discrimination, and I think, unfortunately, it is a great work to do to eliminate prejudice so that people are not discriminated against on the basis of mental health. Because this point has to do with work, I'd like to hop next to C.3, where it is considered that states and rural societies are employed by people who have been found out from a workforce to work in their institutions. It says that the goal is to minimize prejudice and discrimination. It's done, by permission of the President: ▪ A research project will be set up at certain public employment sites where part - time jobs will be increased to make it more accessible to people who have been working without a job because of mental illness. I would like to refer to a report entitled Prejudice and Social Exhibiting, beginning in 2014, that summarises the status of disabled people, as published in Icelandic studies from the year 20003/42013. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ People are afraid of not getting a job in a general labour market and of getting stuck in separate responsibilities or monotonous jobs. It also says: ▪ People who work in a general labour market rather than in separate resources, such as protected work areas. I find this very important because it is so important to pay much attention to employment because participation in a workforce is an important part of the lives of adults and a large part of being an active member of the community. Of course, this is true of people who have mental distress and of all others. There are some things that need to be kept in mind. As soon as it is directed to state and rural society to hire disabled people, and in the case that we especially discuss here, people with chronic mental illness, these factors must be remembered and kept in mind. I also feel very positive, as expressed in C.2, about providing guidance for the media on how to deal with the subject of mental health without developing prejudice. We have a natural example of this from the media, where the material would have been different if there had been any counsel or media personnel who had better information and were better informed as to how best to deal with the issues of mental illness without instigating prejudice. Now that I'm running out of time, I'd like to mention Unit C.4, that there are regular health checks to be carried out on the inmates. It is vital that such an examination be made in order to help people rather than to turn them away, which are used for negative purposes. It's not what you can read from this, but I think it's important to say that you can't work with it that way. [[The president calls.]] My time is up. So I'm rather positive about this matter, and I look forward to seeing it when it comes back to us in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u31	V.E.G. President. Like others who have discussed this discussion, I think it's a good suggestion, and I think I can agree with all of them. The speakers who spoke before me. A mental - health program is being conducted for families, mental - health professionals, prevention, and special attention to young people. This can be tried to solve or improve by various means, by mental - health teams, the services of psychologists, the services of the BUGL walking department, etc. But I'm not going to talk much about this bill because it makes me feel like there's a huge part I need. I was going to be disappointed in that, but I don't think it's possible after reading the documents with the bill, where you see that an enormous number of reporters and participants, agencies and others involved in this case have come to that. Likely, it is not common to know what a diet can do for a healthy person, especially for children. I don't think it's general knowledge, but now, in the last five to seven years, research has been made in both Britain and America, showing that much of the diseases and problems we face can be reduced, I may not say completely free, but in some cases a good diet can be reduced. I have personally read a book by the British author called Natasha Natasha-Campell-McBride. In 2008, this book was translated into English, called the Gastrointestinal Road and Mentalness. It deals with natural treatment of autism, depression, hyperactivity, schizophrenia, dyslexia, disturbance in attention, and pain. This book is also designed to help children and adults avoid ear infections, asthma, allergies and eczema. All of this links a writer to a better diet and cites a number of tests for his support. It's a very thorough book and theoretical, a little torlesin, but very useful. The reason for this book is that the author himself has some child and achieves tremendous success through natural diet, but the book is also based on research in the management of its clients. I read in my preparation that this interpretation proposal for ADHD, an overactive attention span, can reduce or almost cure 63% of people diagnosed with ADHD by dieting. I believe it can be claimed to be an enormously high proportion. I have found that there are a lot of problems with drugs, especially in this group of subjects. I have in mind criticism, and not taking anything out of my mind until now, to educate the community and the medical community does not have enough knowledge of nutrition and the effect of nourishment on the body. In support of this, I would like to say that the one who translated the above book in Icelandic and wrote a final diet on children with ADHD, says, on permission of the president's permission: ▪ I hope that gradually there will be a higher awakening within the medical system on what right diets have a lot to tell people with autism, overactivity, attention deficits, depression, and schizophrenia. Then I'd also like to discuss harmful substances in food, but for 1997, E products or dyes were prohibited in food. Now I don't know if there can be a link between increasing mental disorders and the reimbursement of these materials. I want to discuss two things from the book in the rest of my speech. One involves two types of a protein called glutene andcasein. They break down in two phases in the digestive tract, and the author emphasizes that digestion is possible, while glutten and characterin are found in grain products, wheat and milk, and are included in the writer's account. examples of why people may be intolerant to milk. If the gastrointestinal tract has become very unstable, these two proteins can have the same effects on brain function as opioids. I know they're big words, but this is what she's learned from her research. Then I want to get to something else that turns on our diet in Iceland, but it's new that you have to let go of fat and fat is bad for dieting. Campell-Campell-McBride gives many reasons why cholesterol is the worst, and says 70% of all blood cholesterol is produced in the liver by simple carbohydrates. I read out that it's being supported that eggs aren't safe, as previously thought. The egg cholesterol does not directly affect blood cholesterol, however simple carbohydrates, which are e.g. Unfortunately, in sodas, seats, and sugar in general, which have become too much of our food, blood cholesterol, and therefore cause much more diseases than we are discussing here and related to mental health, but this is related to everything. I just wanted to come into this important show and hope that it would. A health committee, where there's trouble. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingadóttir Iggadóttir is president, accepts and deals with them, and examines how to add a diet to this conclusion. Other than that, I want to celebrate.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u32	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss the proposal for an interpretation of the mental health and mental health policy strategy until four years, in which the General concluded to work on the policy presented in this proposal and that its implementation will be expected in making budgets. First, I would like to say that it is always enjoyable when policy-making plans, and carefulness, such as the one we discuss, are put forth and built on a professional basis, include goals separated to the primary objective, sub-targets, long-term goals, short-term goals, and timeliness, and responsible plans. Standards are set and are expected to be followed and reported in a way that will be done. I think it's important to draw it out, but it is, of course, just as much as the content of the proposal and the content of the important strategy. Before coming to the material and content of the suggestion, I have every reason to commend the people for their work, their presentation, and all who have come to work to support them. Councilmen here have spoken to. It has been observed that the proposal is based on a resolution adopted at the spring Summit of 2014. They were already assigned to a management group with the Minister's letter of business. I also allow myself to assert that all of this group and others involved in this work and that the proposal has not been able to do very well, since time is not too high. This is a relatively short time in relation to the quality of the suggestion. This is often the case when large quantities can be carried down and, at the same time, can be added to things and criticized. But as a whole, it looks really good. I have no doubt that this is going to be very useful to us in the coming losses. I'm going to discuss the key points of the proposal...... fromtheprogram. When a policy plan is established, the order of the proposal is in such a way that it is convenient to discuss from the introduction. And because it's a policy plan, I'm gonna come in on my goals. It is already suggested at the beginning that the main objective of the post-operative mental health policy is as follows, by permission of the president: ▪ Aside from the quality of life and better mental health of the people of the country, more and more are involved in the social activities of people with less or longer - term psychiatric disorders regardless of their habitat. This primary objective follows three sub-targets. The first is that mental - health activities are integrated and consistent. It is one of the major tasks and, in fact, the red strand of a well - chosen proposal because these diseases, depending on the way they are defined, overlap with a number of sides and institutions and are important to cooperate with and integrate in them. Another subroutine of the proposal is that of raising children and promoting their well - being. The third goal is that people will not be discriminated against on the basis of mental health. These are all worthwhile goals, and they are well set up. I'm going to examine these goals a little bit, mainly sub-targets 2 that focus on the parenting conditions of children and adolescents and to contribute to their well - being. It is important to maintain the prevention of this matter, as do many others in the field of health, and there are a number of positive factors and projects in this prevention factor. But I miss a little more emphasis on the movement and participation of children and teenagers in organized sports and leisure activities. Actually, it's on B.2. It says that a team will be set up to make proposals for mental - health activities in high - school schools. It contains examples of partners. Among other things, the sports movement is there. I want to share it in this talk and point it to what. welfare committees to review the occurrence of different parties, such as partners, to all factors that are behind the goal of mental development and prevention. It is important, however, to point out that there are so many members of this category that the suggestion is often made that it is an organization or an organization. I think with regard to category 2 sub-targets it is very important to consider moving and organizing sports, social and leisure activities. Certain developments have taken place recently, we will see it in the years ahead, and it will be presented in an excellent article on the proposal. She is becoming increasingly less shy, and she is well - versed. So the problem will be more visible. In this way, the number of tasks and activities in this field will increase, and they will become even more complex. This will further test the role that is actually one of the main objectives of the proposal and of the plan, which is to integrate the actions of the different parties, experts, professionals, institutions, schools, and schools, of course, are a very important factor in our children's upbringing - and our team members, our partnerships, employment markets, sports partners, and partners of all involved in organized social and leisure activities. We can mention all these stakeholders in this process, which is to help improve their well - being, general well - being, and participation in games and activities, as the main objective of the proposal is to do. It is good to note that this highlights the integration of services for both individuals and families, with the emphasis on mental and mental prophylaxis, and especially on children and adolescents. I'm going to let me repeat a compliment and thank you to the highest degree. A minister who handled the matter well in advance. I rejoice over this suggestion, and I have strong faith that it will bring us again in this regard in the years to come.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u33	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize the ultimate punishment. The bill includes an overall review of current valid ideals, No. 49/2005, which is a step in improving the overall system. There are many things that you can do that you can't deal with in this bill. In this regard, there is the mental health of prisoners who have been deeply involved in the past loss. It is difficult and difficult, and the situation is serious. There will be a working group on mentally ill prisoners in the next few days, and it will be working together with the Ministry of Health. It is designed to work out solutions so that mental prisoners are appropriately treated. Then I would also like to say in this matter that I believe that it is right to consider whether or not to increase the value of punishments other than prison punishment. That is especially when I consider electronic surveillance and community service. I have now committed a judicial committee to investigate this in view of changing the law of law. Then I, a respectable president, will step aside from the subject of the bill. In the less than ten years of full - time legislation, there have been various challenges to the interpretation of the law to the courts by the General agent and to the ministry's release of government government funds on the topic field. As a result, technology has advanced, and new possibilities have resulted in full punishment, such as the use of electronic ankle bands. In these cases, the solutions of the entire system have changed, including as well as internationalisation in crime. In a letter written on June 30, 2010, the then court secretary appointed a committee to revise the law on full punishment, No. 49/2005, giving the Committee a bill to the Ministry of Internal Affairs in 2012. The bill presented here is based on the Committee's work, but has made some changes in the management of the Ministry as well as in the review process. The bill is more detailed than existing legislation, and it aims to make the legislation clearer and to improve its implementation. Chapter I of the bill explains the goals of the law, definition and force field. The aim of the law is that the ultimate penalty should be performed safely but effectively and that special and general warning effects of punishment are effective. At the same time, the law's aim is to reduce the likelihood of fragmentation and to contribute to a more successful adaptation of judgment to society after its completion. As we know, Iceland has a very high degree of violations. This is a new provision for setting up laws, but it is essential that the policy in matters of full punishment be clearly defined, while it is clear that punishment has little purpose if it is not fully completed so that the institutions of the justice system are secure. For example, there are many ways to minimize the recurrence of offenses by improving their ability to judge in a variety of fields, allowing them to be educated, encourage them to pursue a drugless way of life, and thus helping them into new and more successful ways. The bill contains the boundaries of the law and the boundaries of it. The law will apply to the full degree of punishment, the monitoring of probationary punishments, the pardon and the prosecuting of charges, and the collecting of charges. It is then assumed that the law will apply to the preservation as appropriate and also the administration of prison affairs. Il. section of the bill is a rule involving the exact administration of prison affairs. It explains the management of prison affairs, the staff of the prison system, their rights and duties and their orders and the tasks of the Commission. With law No. 145/2013 was a validated law on full penalties changed to the fact that the heads of prison will be appointed by the head of a prison agency instead of a minister and will not be governed by that order in this bill. The latter should be noted, in particular, that the chapter contains basic guidelines on the background opinions of those who work in government prisons. It is a new figure that includes the development of an organized criminal organization that is in charge of the operation in the prison system, but it has moved abroad to the development of a foreign crime group to put its men in institutions with the intention of having power and access to information. Both are a threat to the security of prisons and can reduce the success of the goal of the full. Finally, a prison course is required. The requirement is generally expressed, allowing space for the study to be implemented, but the prison school is being revised to work in the preparation of the full - time plan as well as the completion of a review of the police and police schools, which is in final stages. In III. chapter of the bill is a rule of absolute incorruption of prison punishments and other such factors. This chapter explains how it is to report when to be due for a ruling, a calculation of time, a suspension of loans, prison work, studies, and training, and so forth. However, the chapter contains some new words, as well as some of the older laws being adjusted. Of new references, it should be noted that the Agency will accept sentences for a registration in which justice is judged unjustly, but according to the current law there is no room outside the courts obligated to keep their registration today. Then you can find a set set of calculations according to a dance pattern and the calculation of a composite penal time made clearer. In addition, there is an explanation for the separation of prisons into open and closed prisons, which is not in current legislation. It is thought that it would be necessary to distinguish between an open and closed prison in a law that distinguishes between the rights of prisoners saved in different prisons, e.g. ... dueto callinstitution. This strengthens the improvement rate of various rules, such as these, which are of utmost importance. A health - care arrangement for prisoners was further impaired. A law on the duty of prison authorities to ensure the well - being of new ones in prison inmates. Then there is the government prison agency's authority to allow prisoners to serve punishment outside prison as well as compartments. It should also be noted here that the duties of the health care facility have been clearly defined and speculative regarding the preparation of treatment regimens. In accordance with local requirements, a treatment plan is mandatory for each prisoner. However, it is not necessary to plan treatments for all prisoners, and it is put into the hands of the prison experts to determine whether a treatment plan is needed for prisoners. IV. section of the bill is the rules on the rights and responsibilities of prisoners. The chapter contains new requirements for library, equipment for cell and board. The changes made in the bill from the current law are mainly made in order to meet the requirements of the European prison rules from 2006, published by the European Council, based on European Convention, the issues submitted to the European Court of Human Rights and by the European Commission reports. Thus, most new ones have failed to improve the status of prisoners. However, changes in this section of the bill, which may be limited to prisoners, have been changed to help combat drug abuse and drugs into prisons as well as the fight against prostitution and other forms of abuse in prisons. It is also suggested that equipment, such as TVs, computers, and sound equipment, which can be applied by prisoners to have in their cells the property of the prison and to hire prisoners for a small price. Clearly, this arrangement, known in many parts of the world, will limit the ability of prisoners to misuse these devices, e.g. to hide drugs from inside them and to access them unauthorizedly. Chapter V has regulations on rights from prison. It contains clear guidelines for regular day and family leave, which are new recommendations, short-term permission and permission to work outside the prison. A suggestion for a prisoner to have a family permit if he meets certain conditions, such as regularly applying his day's leave for two years and allowing him to be useful as part of the penalties. Clearly, this arrangement will only be used by prisoners with more severe punishment. These changes are especially due to helpful comments about sides, members of a prisoner, but they are also a nomadic model where these licenses are called weekend vacations. It was considered more convenient to call this permission a family permit instead of a weekend MAH, not a weekend requirement, but just on weekdays. In VI. And Wall. Chapters include search, physical searching, and physical tests, and infractions, discipline laws, etc. On the other hand. These rules are not extensively altered by the local authorities, but it is necessary to suggest that prisoners be absent from prison search. For example, in Denmark it is customary for prisoners to be absent from observation in a cell, which can have a very disturbing effect and can damage a search. The experience of this arrangement in this country has not been good. Other prison guards are needed to carry out each search, and there are several examples of a search that has eluded them. A prisoner who is present seeking where to look thus learns where to put illicit things. How important it is, therefore, that this law be fulfilled! Then two new forms of discipline are proposed, one for a certain time, from open prisons to closed prisons, and the other. It has been carried out that happens to a prisoner who is saved in an open prison, where he has been taken to a closed prison. He has not been made penalties. Rather, he viewed moving to a closed prison as burdensome enough. It is true, however, that minor transgressions in open prisons can be discipline laws without being sent to a closed prison, e.g. with a reminder. In cases of serious offenses, such as drug and drug abuse, transportation to a closed prison must be possible as penalty. Limitations in outdoor and sports facilities are mainly due to steroid consumption in prisons, but the primary objective of steroid intake is to build up muscles, so it may be necessary to limit the availability of incarceration equipment once a prisoner has been exposed to steroid intake. He's at VIII. section of the bill is for parole regulations. The main changes proposed are that the definition of the seriousness of the offense is implemented into the regulations of the Regulation at this time. The seriousness of the court-oriented sentence is meaningful to the evaluation of when it may apply for parole. According to the bill, homicide, violence and sexual abuse, depravity violations, major drug offenses, burning, or other general hazards and assaults for serious offenses are considered. Then it is suggested that the prisoners who did wrong when they were between 15 and 21 years of age, regardless of fractures, receive a solution of experience at the end of one third of the penal period. Clearly, strict demands will be made for the behavior of prisoners in the penalties so that the rule can apply. Then, very young prisoners can be encouraged by the rule of a penalties, such as the treatment and the like, so that they get their feet back in the community. The IX. Chapters include terms of probationary punishment and grace. X and XI. Chapters are the rules for the full cost of money, the collection of charges, and the execution of recordings as well as the judicial hearings of billing. The changes proposed in these chapters are based on proposals made by the County Commissioner of Bolus, now the County Man of the Northern West, who was committed by the current Justice and Justice Department to make recommendations for the reimbursement in 2010 according to a publication of Government Review, Review of fines and charges, from June 2009. The results of the collection of fines and charges in this country are terrible, especially in the case of Norway, but according to figures from the businessman of the carburetor, the difference is striking. The recovery rate of fines in Norway based on the three - year collection is 94%, but comparable numbers in this country are 25 to 35%. It should be noted that the preconceived fines amount to less than 6 billion. The same is true of high costs, but there are tens of differences between remunerations in Norway and Iceland. Because of this, the chapter provides suggestions on emptying the records of the guilty and the charge. There's an XII. section of the rules of case handling and sufficiency under the law no reason for any reason here. XIII. in the bill, I'd like to say there are some rules. The penalty of the law should be called to mind, but courts have repeatedly exonerated men of illicit practices or materials in the country's prison despite the publication of prison regulations in government news. In view of this, it was necessary to reform the law of justice. provisional measures are given to require 2nd measure 1st.mg. 7. The bill where it is reserved for government officials to have a university education that is not applicable to those currently employed officials but, rather, will take effect when they retire, and new directors will be appointed. I'd like to declare what I told you earlier about the work being done at the Ministry, a respectable president, in addition to the bill presented here, and have it in common with this bill to improve the situation of the best language on the land. This is a ongoing task, but I believe that at this point it is necessary that we take a certain step forward in this regard. V.E.G. President. I have now explained key points of the bill and suggested that it be followed by this discussion. The General Board of Education and Education for the proper treatment and treatment of 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u34	President. I have to be a little negative, because at first glance it doesn't look like the bill is built on a very deep policy project for the future of this system and a vision of the future. I've read the review of the case from Research, a prisoner's partner, about the bill, but it's since the Ministry's presentation stage. Among other things, it says by permission of the president: The main reason for television is based on current legislation that lacks all policies in line with countries normally common to Iceland, which have adopted a penal policy in prison affairs. Danish research has shown that reform results in a great deal of community benefits, not just for the prisoners but for the whole nation. Research in Norway shows that the common people believe that imprisonment should be a relief, rather than the vengeance of society. Then the jury has told the Minister of Justice that the goal of judging is to reduce the amount of violations and that it is taking place by reform policy. Such a approach is not to be seen in the conclusion that there is a bill on the full punishment currently available. So I would like to ask, " Has this comment been taken into consideration by proponents? ' At the same time, I would like a minister to review the policy agenda before the bill was submitted. I would like to ask if it is right as a prisoner's side of conduct that the bill is largely based on existing laws on the full penalty and that no real policy to the future has been asked of this sect. It's a perfect policy group, as the alien law has been, and I'm sorry that this has not been done in a comparable process.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u35	The Honorable President. I'd like to think of us as taking steps forward, and I'm the reason I wanted to be able to do that in my speech at the beginning, that bill is a factor in a bigger matter. I realize that there are other things I need to do, but my opinion is that this is a matter of taking steps from the current court. I think it's good. However, we do know that this is an ongoing development that we will face over the years and that we will always be in the time of full punishment. The bill has been in development for a very long time and is based on the results of a work group from 2010 and has been working on this steadily ever since. When it arrived in the Ministry of 2012, it began to work there. It was an extensive narrative. I think a lot of comments were taken into account. A certain factor was taken into account in the review of Aggression, and I know that the conduct, a prisoner's partner, feels that this has to go much further. At this point, the Ministry did not consider it possible to go further on this particular matter. The case is now being treated for Congress. On the other hand, I want to state, and I think it's important that there are so many blocks under when we talk about the full amount of punishments and prison cases. Here we are referring to a specific aspect of the matter. There are other factors, as I mentioned earlier. For example, I mention community service and other factors. Of course, such reforms need to be viewed as well. All of this needs to be considered in context. I think it's important to the committee when she begins to discuss the matter, to look at it a little bit ambiguous, and I think the Ministry will certainly bring up the work that is being started at the Ministry and put to the committee so that they can see what's going on there. [[The president calls.]] That's how I think we're gonna get screwed up in the litigation group.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u36	President. I thank you very much for the answers, and I think it's very good to have a clear view that this is the first step. Of course, I would have liked to have gone further, and there would have been only an open process around it. It touches so many surfaces, and it's going to take so much. I challenge it. A board of directors to ensure extensive consultation and to examine this large system in that we want correction instead of punishment. We've seen it everywhere in which these issues are addressed that there is more to the spirit of the region as well as should, of course, be foreign. We've seen how this system has worked in the United States, for example. I encourage a full - time committee to listen carefully to what is being done by a position, a company of prisoners, as to how best to ensure that this will produce some results for the community as a whole. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u37	A respectable president. I also want to guess, as I briefly mentioned in my speech, that the Ministry is working on the full schedule in which there is a long-term policy barrier in my group, what I referred to in my previous answer. I think in this policy, we'll see better how men look beyond the future. I expect it will be shorter if it appears. It is part of a larger plan when it comes to all law enforcement, lawsuits, and such factors. It's a strategy that has complete bearing on it. The bill also provides opportunities and opportunities for prison authorities to put men in treatment options or to evaluate human status when they enter into the full to push men into certain directions. There is, of course, much more to contribute to imprisonment.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u38	A respectable president. We are sad to find ourselves in prison cases, and they must make us think deeply of the recent descriptions of the prison governor's position in the case party. But there are many opportunities to make improvement, and we have every reason to thank the Minister for opening these legislation here at the council and this important opportunity for the committee to take it further and, as noted earlier, more emphasis on the reveries than has been done. As well as the vicious cycle that causes this, there is the return rate of people in the penitentiary higher than there are both pleasure and neighboring countries. In this regard, I would like to ask the minister of her story's review of how she was involved with electronic surveillance and community services assigned a judicial committee to work with certain materials in order to improve this aspect of our system. I'd like to ask her to describe a little more clearly what is going on there. In addition, I would like to ask the minister about the small matter that is here on the program, which is delivered from me and some other members of the council, and is obliged to give judges the right to judge young criminals for community service so that they can go to community service without having to go to prison first. The report says that this was discussed in preparation, not in the sense of need, without being reasoned further. As far as I can see, it's important and positive that judges have this option when they are treated by criminals of the age of 15 in the past and 21. Then I'd like to ask the minister what evidence is behind this text in the report.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u39	V.E.G. President. I truly agree with that. A senator that should be our primary task in reducing the frequency of return to prison. That must be our goal, and we need to find the best ways to make sure that people get off that path and that we do not fall into the habit of breaking down repeatedly. It's about the thing that took place. A senator asks. When you begin to get involved in these lawsuits and in this particular bill, I felt that I would ask a judicial committee to view community service as legal penalties, i.e. that it would be set up as one of the testimonials of the penal force. The law of conduct would be changed in a way that, in addition to imprisonment, people could be judged for community service, to view such factors, thereby adding just one more resort. It comes to a bit of the thought in the bill mentioned by the Senator, and I have to admit that I have not studied in them, but rhymes with the thought that a judge has a chance to judge people in prison, and in my address to a judicial committee I couldn't particularly have looked to a certain age but only to this issue, whether it is time to revise the law in this respect, and to give any opportunity to judge in any case to judge men of a different kind than those who have been in our fine penalties from 1940. I think it's a very important matter. Only if a judicial committee finds out will there be more points to be considered. Then, of course, we will consider this further.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u40	A respectable president. I'm delighted to hear the Minister's words that this is a matter of opinion. Committee. Of course, this has been discussed previously by the Ministry of Justice and later by the Ministry of Internal Affairs, but unfortunately no proposal has been made for the council. I think there is good reason to consider this as an option for the judges for all age groups, but I believe that there is nothing to be done about taking this step right away in the crimes of people of 15◯21, because the fact is that a judge who receives a young criminal for himself today has no choice but to judge the individual on probation. That means there is no intervention in the affairs of the youth. There is no stimulation to change their behavior, to reevaluate their course, to look in other directions, which community service would obviously contribute to, certainly to reform, and to get people after their first fracture at a young age to at least thinking of a plan, not that the only option after parole is to put people in jail. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u41	A respectable president. That's exactly why I'm focusing this particular matter on a judicial committee. I think it's important that she be specifically assigned to look into this scene. For young people, who might be our main concern when it comes to crime, that we can save the young people out of it, let's remember, though, that in the bill, there are far more opportunities for the prison authorities to put men in community service. I believe, however, that it is not only in the administrative level but also in the case of judgment, and there we argue, I and I. Senator. I believe it will be informative for the council to take these views all to consideration on the committee. I'll bet the board of directors is going to do it. I think it's one of the progressives that could become most important to us in prison cases in the years to come.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u42	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for her history. In this answer, I pause at what she said in her talk that there are 6 billion found in a collection after the judges have dropped to the expense. So I'd like to welcome the collection plans she brings to the XI. section. I think it's good that we don't give the impression that such a fine goes on or something like that. I'd like to ask. V.E.G. Ministers met Iceland and another states in the North, Norway, who have been successful in collecting these fines, and I wonder: Are we going the same way as the Norwegians, or are we doing something else? I also wondered if there was anything discussed in the management of this bill to collect tickets of pay. I know it's very cruel to ask this question, but I do expect that if such measures are taken that are known elsewhere, they would be mild but still used to address such debts as these in Iceland of 6 billion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u43	V.E.G. President. In fact, in view of all the northern regions, our situation is weakened when it comes to collecting tickets. Norway is most prominent in the collection ratio. Of course, we were guided by national legislation, as is often the case with us. It was a discussion in the processing of this bill to complete the Norwegian route and pay. This, of course, explains the results of their efforts to do so. However, the conclusion was that at this point it was a major change to let the system into human pay, so to speak, that at this point it was impossible for me to go so far. This is in the case of child support. It's a very difficult strategy, and I think that it needs to be taken into account that very overall when this is to happen and when it should not, but it really is an option. That's probably what people wonder about. It may be that the committee would like to do so, but my conclusion was that at this point it would be pretty far gone, at least for now. It is never known what men do for a long time, however, we must recognize that the embarrassing results of the collections of fines are not exemplary, and we also place great pressure on a reserve where the problem is gone with the large number of people waiting for abduction. Still, the prince's hand must be watched, not the backup, but the people should just fix it. One must look at the prince's face as to whether it is right to enter human wages. It's just food, and it was so assessed at this point not to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u44	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I have not personally developed an opinion as to whether it is right or wrong to go to collect it. I just wanted to open up that discussion and find out what had been discussed with this bill. In case of a moment. The General and Education Committee believes that this should be taken into consideration, I will support it if it feels that it is not to be considered, I believe the minister's point of view, which she traced earlier, is valid. The committee is just fine with this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u45	V.E.G. President. This bill has been in operation for years, as we have seen. I doubt now that a General and Education Committee is going to cover the matter for many years, however, this requires a careful consideration of a number of factors that might arise in connection with the matter. It's so complicated. So there are strong opinions. Happily, we too will find that in this discussion. I think and I know that this committee will review these things all. But I think people should consider considering this section regarding the collection not taking far too much steps at a time and becoming aware of how things are going. We always have the opportunity to make this particular change. It has been carefully reviewed, and there is quite a lot of evidence that supports the ability to do this. However, I do believe that such a change must be made in a way that you look over the whole system, not only the overall system, but other factors that could become a more serious example of entering human wages. It must be kept in mind when making decisions like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u46	A respectable president. The first and last thing I want to say about this bill is that it does not approach the subject in my opinion from the right angle. I'm going to have a detailed analysis of the bill, end of which it's a big bill, 101 on 71 pages, if you include the report. But I have to say, I'm not that critical of reform. The concept occurs three times in this detailed bill, in all cases in its explanations, and never in the root text itself. Yet I rejoice as the highest. The Minister of the state said earlier today that this was no final point but that it was still in the process of molding a vision, which I consider good and actually necessary because it is not enough. Let's be absolutely clear about the reform. No reformal policy will be practical in this category while it is superseded. Last year, 170 times, such as work or recreation, was required by a prisoner at Little-Sun because there was a prison guard's position with another staff. That's our first subject. It's impossible to talk about reform in such a situation. And now it shall be cut down, and it shall go forward. I know it's out of control. Rather, it is our mission at the General Assembly, and we must raise our budget to this sect, especially to Little Lagues and Sugns. In some cases it appears that there is a decline in the bill in regard to reform. As an example, in the current law, there is a plan for a treatment plan for prisoners where a treatment and work modality programme is required. What replaces the bill is a law in Article 24. which is much less than close to being as detailed as what is in the current law. It obligates us to believe that it is necessary by the experts of the prison facility. The explanation of this is very interesting and, in fact, says in my opinion much about the problem itself, how we approach that matter. By permission of the president, this report stands: This should also be suggested to reduce the demand for treatment regimens to the prison facility. In accordance with local requirements, a treatment plan is mandatory for each prisoner. However, they have not been left behind because of priorities, since a prison facility has not been funded for the task. In other words, the treatment plan in the current law was not the cost rate when it was approved. There's not enough money to take full care of this. Given the cutback requirement of the past few years and the available cuts required, financial support is not likely to be made on the project. It is therefore suggested that a prisoner treatment plan be conducted if this is thought to be necessary by specialists in the Prison Institute. That's exactly where the knife in the cow stands. We're changing policy to match the company's budget, which I find very serious. In turn, it's fine that you just say so clearly in your bill's paper. This is essential and emphasizes the problem. Not long ago, in a special discussion at the council, it seemed to be a complete connotation that prison punishment is meant to exist. If we agree with this, we must also admit that it costs money. The fundkeepers and I need to put money in it. It's not a choice. We can't pretend to be here with a reformal conference while we're financing the party. It is a direct contradiction, so we must increase our financial resources. That's the first thing we have to do before we change anything else, in my opinion. Now the situation is on Little Hills, so housing isn't nice or waterproof. I could give a whole lot too long a talk about what it's like at Little Lague, but I just don't have the time to go over it. There's so much wrong. Most if not all these problems are due to a lack of money. We could get into some very good policy adjustments, of course, but a sumptuous feature that's really wrong with Little-Reun at the moment. There are a lot of things here, and I have to take my time and pick out. When it comes to reforming, it is important that jobs be available. Many feel, and in principle, I agree that serving in prisons is one of the most important methods of reform. Then I'd like to mention something else that I also believe is important to a prisoner's correction, that's a position to work in prisons. It has been claimed that the prison intended to build on Hólmshön does not provide adequate employment for prisoners. Another factor that has been pointed out to us is that the competitiveness of jobs in prisons caused problems. So we must somehow fail because, as I said earlier, we work for the prisoner of the most important reform service we can provide. So I give the idea that a prison with a job will be defined as protecting the workplace, thus enjoying similar rights and employment for disabled people who have special protection. As an example, I can call the petition at Little Lague, where you can have your car cleaned up and your request. However, it is a serious problem to advertise that activity for enterprises in this sector near the prison. Since it has to be improved, Little Pass will not be able to advertise its operations at the moment. As a result, working arrangements are difficult to maintain. Besides the lack of adequate human work management or the financing. There is something else that really sticks into my eyes and is very similar to the problem I mentioned earlier. For example, recent references to the rights and responsibilities of prisoners include changes in the law's regulations for visits. The aims there, with president's permission, are to help the prison authorities fight drug and drugs, as well as the fight against prostitution and other abuses. Here, first of all, we need to keep in mind that a prisoner's association with a family and friends is one of the most important aspects of the reproof, and it is very dangerous to make changes to the worse. What needs to be done to combat the drug use of Little Lague at the very least is to finance the operation in accordance with the need so that the persistent lack of prison guards does not help to avoid drug smuggling, as it turns out. Little-Reuter's sustained cutback has directly led to increased drug abuse. At that time, the house is so badly equipped that it is a game to hide the substances in many places, especially in a house that is neither foot nor waterproof. In my opinion it borders on some kind of crazy situation when it's the way it is at Little Houn rights now that you plan to finance a drug monitoring by joining the rights of prisoners and an important part of their reform, but leave the housing, function, and all possible reforms in the meantime, instead of funding the group as needed. We're not talking about any astronomical sums, 50 million. K. You'll make a difference. There is no high number in connection with the budget and especially with the importance of the seminary. Equipment. Another new device in the law is that equipment, such as televisions, computers, stereos that can be applied by prisoners to have permission to have in their cells, be property to the prison, and rent to a prisoner for a small price. This is how it is, with the permission of a president: It is estimated that this arrangement, known in many parts of the world, will limit the ability of prisoners to abuse these devices, e.g. to hide drugs inside them and to get on the Internet without a warrant. With all due respect, I believe that such devices as especially computers can contribute a great deal to reformation, and I think it's time to reexamine the rules of a prisoner's access to the Internet. Access controls can be put on in some way or even severely. However, almost every social discussion is done on the Internet, and while prisoners have the right to vote, we need to be careful to limit their access to information, especially in these times, where the release of free and independent newspapers in print is very limited. After the first review of this bill, I think there is a great lack of consistent future policy development, which seems to be mainly stopping holes. Sadly, we need to act well in prison matters and rethink them. So again, I rejoice at the word of the highest. The Minister of the Interior has been on that path, if I understood it just earlier today, for it is very necessary. There's a lot of things I really expect to do. The General and Education Committee will consider. Of course, new total law is a very big thing. One of them is penalties in prison, 73 st. and 74th pars. Residents are permitted to use discipline laws that can be very burdensome, such as detracting the fee for jobs, limitation of visits, shut-out transfers, restrictions on outdoor and exercise, isolation, and so on. I believe that it is important for a prisoner to have the possibility of an independent review of these decisions so that discipline laws can always be applied fairly and fully in accordance with the law. In terms of the transfer between prisons, there is not enough clear rules about him. It must be considered in a similar way as with the penalties of discipline. Today, a prison facility may move men to prison without cause, regardless of their dwellings, family circumstances, or other circumstances. There are many examples of insecurity that can lead to prisoners as well as to the anxiety of those around them. Then the transfer of prisoners can also have a serious effect on other prisoners. For example, I have heard examples, very thorough and serious cases, that the transfer of difficult people to quiet prisons caused a major disturbance in their status, in prisoners who handled their own affairs, drugs, and so on. In the end, it did not quite disappear, but there was a serious disturbance over it and was very serious. This happened because a difficult prisoner was transferred to a quiet prison. Now I have less than four minutes of my speaking period, and it is good to spend them on mentioning the saving of mental - health professionals within prison. I think most of the people now know that saving the mentally ill in prisons is a serious problem, and we have to solve it. The funding is back in. I don't expect the bill to deal with the problem, as the budget needs to come in here. Yet, this is a group where problems have become so profound that significant improvement is needed. In no way are prison guards equipped to cope with serious mental - health professionals who should rightly be saved in a medical facility but not in prisons, except that the health services themselves have also been involved. I have met inmates who are actually concerned about how future explanations will be about them in relation to the condition of prisons in order to cope with the prisoner with a mental illness. At Little Pass, there are prisoners who have a major mental disorder and are not humanable to save them in prisons where there is no room or knowledge to deal with the effects of mental illness. In particular, I stress that these anxieties are especially from prison guards themselves. In general, prison guards do not consider the situation to be an open - minded system. They are themselves concerned about how we will view their work in the future. That's because we don't finance the lawsuit. We always end up there. Most importantly, I want to mention one thing that we in The Piranha have repeatedly raised, and that is something we have not talked about nearly enough. It's how we're going to get prisoners back into the community after we've made a loan. This element in particular needs a thorough review and prison authorities will need to discuss with the social and rural systems because it is essential for society and for reducing the number of returns to prisons to the possibility of a successful return to society. It's not too good to think that today, people are basically thrown out of prison. And that concludes with all the repertoire, and they just go back into what they know. Many prisoners come out and have nothing to disappear in either shelter or livelihood, and, of course, their social or family ties are totally high on themselves. It doesn't take a specialist to see what happens if you get out of prison, which has been in the company that is basically involved in drugs and crime, if it becomes your safety net when you finally get out of prison. Where do people think he's going? Of course it's the same thing, of course. I'm sure that's one of the main reasons why we have a comeback in prisons that are unacceptable. There is probably one of the most difficult factors in this relationship because in combination with this, there are general housing problems in Iceland so it is difficult to establish priorities, it is simply a lack of housing and lack of social resources. But we cannot afford to throw someone out of jail and expect him to be a improved man, especially when he's been in a prison prison in a gambling environment for years where there is a lack of education, a lack of work, even if prison officials want to work very well and want everything for you. There is simply no money. It is the focus of the discussion: Money is missing in the seminary. We have to work on that. In the last few seconds, I'm just going to mention it and I'm going to say that while the next spring is in prison, it's not going to solve these problems. It can help a little, but it's gonna be a little bit. It will not solve the problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u47	V.E.G. President. Only on the basis of a few factors, especially the status of prison matters in terms of financial support. I would like to state it, and it is clear to the men and the council that prison cases have for a very long time enjoyed a narrow financial advantage. It has been, I think, ongoing problems for decades that it has been a great effort to get enough money into this suit. Building plans are a shock, but it is a form of how much capitalism and perhaps the system is quick to push aside the necessary investments needed for this class. I think we should take it seriously. Of course, this is also true because, of course, the most important thing is that the system itself works and that we will achieve our goal in reducing recurrence and bringing people back to society as a member of society. I'd like to state, though, that I'm working very hard to get 80 million more to secure the mini-Sun design. That's important, it's the money I hope to get more. But I notice a word. The senator he directs to the General himself is also aware of this matter. I couldn't do many of the answers, but these are the points that will be taken on the Committee. In view of the mental health care of a prisoner, it stands outside this bill and can't be handled in there. It is urgent, however, that the work we are about to do now is very important. Of course, the difficulty in getting special staff into this category is a major concern. We'll see how it's been with doctors. We can't even change the budget. Although we have endless funds, it is a problem that is totally independent and is also part of the problem we face. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u48	A respectable president. I like it especially when it's the highest. The Minister of the Interior government calls it investments, in a certain way, investments when making a proper budget for this group. It takes a lot of money to screw up these issues, and it can cost a lot of money, and rights and even life can be achieved according to the nature of the situation. As for the funding, I'm very happy to the top. Minister of the state is trying to get 80 million more. Of course, he's getting my support for it. In this connection, it is safe to mention that I also feel that it is important to have earmarks in the activity where the need for financial help is actually causing insecurity. The situation on Littleun is this now, when underrun and intense stress it means that there's a lot less that needs to be cut off for a serious incident, which would not be sufficient for employees to deal with if it happened. Once prisoners are beginning to sense that there is not enough force to monitor drugs, of course they use it. That's why there's an increase in drug abuse right now at Little Laundromat. The safety of a prison guard is affected, which is responsible again for this vicious cycle that we need to break. We have one very simple, private way to break it, that is to finance the group according to what you might have thought was just what it was. It's a ticking time bomb, as far as I know, especially the state of Little-Sun. We have to step in. I'm glad everyone who looks at this party seems to agree completely on that. As for mental health, I think it's a two-way thing. It is the problem of the highest degree. Ministers mentioned, all true and right, as far as I know, but it is also who we're sending to prison instead of giving them other options. That's another part of the equation we haven't discussed in detail, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u49	V.E.G. President. There are a number of points in this matter that we will likely discuss forever in connection with this bill and further suggestions that may not be too long to be seen. I'm using that word as a dog. A senator mentioned because I feel that in this regard we are investing in trying to get people back into society. It must be the purpose of all of this to reduce this return, to look to young people, and to all those in prison who need their help so that they can improve their ways. In certain cases it's very difficult, we know it completely, but we have the goal, that it's what we're doing, and we're trying to channel money into it. This cannot be done by putting money into building space; it needs to be done by the business and the work being done in the whole system, the amount of money that is spent there to the best of its resources. It is always being tried to find ways, and now it is being tried to make it possible, for example, for example, for the local community service to come earlier into prisons to support prisoners, even when they are on their way out of prisons, to help people take their first steps. It's an extremely delicate time, the highest. The president, when prisoners get out of jails and are trying to get back into society and other temptations or other groups, may pull back. That is a delicate time, and it is also necessary to consider the matter of prison service. It is not only the lead when deciding what kind of punishment is appropriate and how to apply other factors, treatment schedules, that is, self - saving, and then getting people back into society, hoping to improve their lives.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u50	A respectable president. I welcome efforts to the highest. Minister. But I have to mention two things I noticed in the bill, which I'm very sorry about when it comes to financing. According to the bill's report, the lack of money has become a factor in how the law handles such matters as drug addiction and drug abuse during visits. When we know well, or should we know that the lack of money causes an increase in drug abuse, we are going to change the rules about our visits. Instead of dealing with this problem, the authorities may be inclined to take on unpleasant rights, rights, and songs that cost money and may be a bit of a fuss. In the meantime, I don't feel that we should go to such important and important activities as visiting inmates, and especially about alcohol treatment, planning to compromise the demands and obligation of the authorities to deal wisely with prisoner addictions, directly because there is no money to do so. I could criticize it more strongly, but I'm doing here now, but I'm going to take this as a warning to the General, that it is absolutely necessary that the General will respond to the urgent need to finance the group, so that they can give extra time to try to rid prisoners of addiction. That's a lot of connection between drugs and crime, especially in prisons, and that's one of the big things we need to deal with. We cannot deal with them properly now and even less according to this bill. All because of a lack of money. Once we've solved the problem that I expect we'll ever do, hopefully we can take real steps towards reformation and change basic thinking that we're applying to policy in the general group. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u51	A respectable president. I'd like to first point out. The head of the General Committee for the following, which has been revealed in the last few hours, as well as a minister, is one more factor than what I mentioned earlier. The bill suggests changes to the arrangement of searching in a cell. It says: No cell search should be attended by Fangi. However, it is permitted to deviate from this condition under the decision of the director of the prison. A report on the search and any items or materials that may have been discovered and that are prohibited from holding in a cell should be made. This is, a respectable president, in opposition to the European prison rules referred to by the minister in his speech. When a bill for law now in effect was discussed here at the council, it was originally suggested that a prisoner not be present in a cell search. The Committee was referred to the European Penitentiary and Bjarni Benediktsson, the present senator, and the present Supreme Court. The minister of finance, who was the spokesman for the matter, wrote: The book suggests that this change in 52 C.E. will be 52 C.E. The bill that, instead of the fact that a prisoner is not present, the principle is to be found in his cell, he should regularly attend such a search. It is estimated that in December 2005, new European prison regulations will be adopted and seen to see that in them the principle in these matters is that a prisoner regularly attended his cell search. Hence, the committee feels that it is right to take the step to the full with the sentence of the total law of full punishment. So I must pray to the highest. Minister of the state to keep this in mind as well as before. A full board of directors. There's obviously been some mistake in making this bill. I just want to pick up the thread where it's cool. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's son left him. I'm very thoughtful of the freak criminal record. Why the criminal record? It is now that those who have a record are greatly different from those who have a criminal record. For example, many have been involved in the use of consumer or minor doses and records. It is now that once you are getting back into society and have this stamp, it is often quite difficult to be taken as a valid member of the community. It's hard to get a job, it's hard to rent a house, it's hard to have finished serving, and to be a better man. There is yet another threshold for those who have served to participate in society, and that is why such a return is so common. I think we should think about this. There are a lot of things in our laws and system, which is just because they've only been, and they haven't been examined or reevaluated. I think we just need to take a closer look at this thing based on correction. I've watched our young people who go to prison, people who aren't supposed to go to jail, people who are underage. Those who know the world that will exist in such communities know that the younger you are, the more you need to prove yourself in society. It often begins a long walk that does not always end well for many. I've met boys out in the East, on my walk between my office and the council, who have been suddenly imprisoned. When people go to jail, it's not as if you have a fixed date. It can be changed, without much effort. Then there is no community preparation and adjustment before people go out. People just land in the street. It may have started studying at Littleun, starting some course of reform, and it's pulled out of it. I don't understand why they haven't made a bridge yet. There is no bridge. It's not even a clue or a foundation yet, considering what I've heard very recently from people who just came out of Little-Run. I've been at it many times during my discussion that many of my countries, Icelanders, seem to think that Little Braun is a luxury hotel. It may have looked all right here in years before my God, this isn't even a single star hotel. Besides, I don't understand the ideologies that when you go to reform, the equipment should be part of the punishment. Of course, that is not the way it should be. It should be a means of living and maintaining self - respect. We must not take her away from people even if they have been wronged. Of course, such offenders are people of all sorts. The most remarkable speech in Obama, when he first president of the United States, says: "The vast majority of those in prison in the United States - which is actually a very high percentage of young men - are young men who have done something very small, often something that comes with being at a certain age and getting away with, but some get into a so - called reform system or a criminal system that makes them look like they'll never get out again. It is just taking the possibility of life from people. One of the ugliest things I know in the Icelandic legal system is waiting to serve. She's totally embarrassing. When it is time for these young boys - they are usually up to something when they are in a certain age, are seized, are assigned to serve, perhaps wait two years, and may have tolerated their lives. Is not the purpose achieved? Isn't that the way it is? All this time, they're incarcerated, maybe they've had children. It often goes so long before you get your penalties done, because it is punishable and inhuman punishment to have people wait so long to serve. I'm very fond of it--and that's what I'm afraid of already going out in the ankle-paint, which said, "Insecure" that it will only be viewed as a way to save. It can't be like that. It has to be that way, if going out on the way, that there's a program, some way for young people who want to get the chance to reform their lives, that they're not just hanging around and watching TV and playing video games and waiting for this chapter of their lives to be over. Then there is a great danger that things will repeat. It is also true of those who make a mistake in life that it is not for good reason. There's been a long process, e.g. CYP3A4 inhibition by Punishing people for being sick is also one of the ugliest things I know in our society. It is very bad that we are now in a place where there is not enough medicine for young people to take on long - term care. It is very bad that there is no system that accepts people who are coming from prison, and they just call for the cycle. How expensive is it to our community? Then I'm not just talking about money. It's just very expensive. It seems that very many of the people I've met who have lost their lives, and even those who have done so deliberately, are very well equipped, would have had the opportunity to thrive in life, they could become people who would be very valuable to society. Somehow, we need to look at it that way too. Of course, there are many different sheep, but most of the money, which will be kept waiting very long before they get to get abducted, is a great family, their moms and dads or sons and daughters, brothers and sisters. We must not forget that. What I believe is to make sure that those who are supposed to take some form of resources - that they are held around by those who want to make sure that people are not punished permanently for being wronged, perhaps for a long time ago. Then you'll always have a criminal record. You always have to say that you've committed crimes, and these crimes are pretty low, some of them. This needs to be considered when reviewing the registry. You have to rethink this way to mark people because you are marked for life, and that's not fair.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u52	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator included a number of points in his speech, and I think they will be taken into account in the progress of the matter at the council as well as many opinions that are also different and perhaps basic questions about how we are going to act. That's what we're talking about. A senator drew attention to this, assuming that this will be checked on the board of directors. I think it's like this in Denmark. All we need to do is find out how this is happening in the bill. We are not going to go against what we have committed to so that it needs to be considered, and I know the committee will. There are two or three things I'd like to mention. First of all, I think it's better for these elderly people to borrow in nursing homes than in prisons. Of course, we do not want young people to get into the situation of being judged for punishment. I also need to do a little more research than I think court tolerance is at the beginning of a sentence that explains the release of the day. [[Up front.]] I think that's the way it is, but there may well be some mistake. They just have to go over it, I'm sure they'll do it and sort it out. Hv. A senator mentioned the number. There are 500 minor probations waiting for a 140% increase in economic failure. We have 144 spaces in the country, so we can see that we are faced with an enormous problem. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u53	President. I'm glad we're looking at this. It's nothing so long since I was working at The Street Center, and then we got a prisoner to treat who was in Little Lava and certainly wasn't supposed to be there because of his age. There's a lot of walking on it, and I really hope there's been a time when no one under the age of the family ever goes in to Little Laundromat. In the meantime, international institutions that observe here have made serious comments on this matter. I ran into a boy on East Street who said that it was obviously making room for someone else, and that's how he went out a little earlier. I'm not talking about long periods of time but one day to or from or from a week or one month or one month may be important to prepare to leave. It would be very useful if it were the highest. A minister investigated whether there were some cases where people would not have enough preparatory time to adapt to the community. If there's one case, it's one too many. But I don't mind having people leave until they have to watch this. Now I also feel very important when we have this long wait list that other advice will be shocked. A person who has waited for some time to get it calculated into and punishable should simply be evaluated according to the individual's circumstances. If the person has got his or her life under control and, for example, has formed a family and turned over the magazine, I feel that the State is also responsible for not being able to carry out its duties.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u54	V.E.G. President. I think it's very important when we look at policy plans, and maybe it's in the best plan too, that the decisions we make are basically taken out of what we're going to achieve. Of course, it is important that we always have from limited resources to play in all our language groups, and that is the way it is in everything we do, but it is not to be the main reason for some particular way that we are in a narrow or long list of waitings. We do this because we think it's better for the whole system, for those who need it, and then for us who hold it at all levels. Because it matters to me, I now feel that we need to consider community service. I think it's very important, and although I find it necessary to draw out the huge number of people waiting, it's primarily to draw out what the problem is rather than to escape the problem. It'll take us a long time to sort it out. Adding to community service is not because the order is so great but because it is for the good. That's the point. The problem, however, has become the order of magnitude that it is a major concern for the authorities to face the possibility of 500 waiting. I am not surprised that a prison ruler is often depressed when discussing these matters. Of course, when people are responsible, it's hard to look at this situation, but we all have to face it, it doesn't leave us at least not much shorter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u55	President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for participating in this discussion. I appreciate that, and it's very good to have a word with the Minister. I feel very important that there will be some way to evaluate the situation, and I feel impossible when people are actually put in prison by waiting for so long. I find it urgent to look at it, even offering community service, instead of people going in, even from their family or from study or some sort of thing, when people have got their lives under control. There's something else I feel as important. We need to find a way to explain so much more about the law. They are often hairy and complicated. One of the things I've been hanging around lately is a very different assessment of security. For example, it's amazing that a man with a developmental diagnosis of a 12 - year - old will be held in custody for a long time without anyone getting to talk to the person. I think it's a very serious, clean, brilliant violation of human rights. At the same time, those who have violated children sexually or have been charged with rape or such things are often released. There's obviously something wrong with research, I just have to say it. It is very important that the law be perfectly clear as well as the rules so that the police know exactly which step to take.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-33.u56	A respectable president. This is a very big, important issue that has to do with the arrangement we have when an individual has somehow broken down the network that we can imagine everyone in some way. The social situation, or the person's commitment to family, school, friends, society, has gone wrong; the net or the community problem, whether the individual has directly caused it himself, because he has not walked in life, or that the net has failed him in some way. I hear it in the language of those here who have discussed this matter that it is discussed far and wide that is very good. Of course, it's all of us's wish that no one should land there. It is aimed at achieving the resources that these laws deal with, and this form in a community institution is not usually appropriate. It is very bad to listen to the statistics that we are constantly having more and more need for this. First, I'd like to agree with what they say about present resources being very expensive. It has been a very special experience to listen to a prison guard with decades of experience in those jobs talk about the present situation worse than they remember, and I have no reason to cross them with it. It is most unfortunate, and the Council must take it to heart and ensure financial support. The resources and treatment and the culture that are meant to be in this area of human life will include individuals whom we imagine to be walking on the path that ends with the law of supreme punishment, those who will suffer as a result of penalties. We're talking about institutions that are working there and then those institutions that work with the individual after the final outcome. We've been in trouble in this area for various reasons. Many institutions or homes that served in this area have been affected. Bad cases have been raised where clients in such institutions have been victims of injustice, injustice, or violence. This has led to the development of the Agency's very existence and to its challenges. This certainly should not include running away from the situation or losing our faith in all the good people who have made themselves available in this area. It may be a little difficult to put all of this into words at exactly this point, but many of the people who have worked in this field are great pioneers, burning the subject. They want to work in culture, feel a great deal of cooperation with their clients, but they do not always have a concordance with administrative and regularity, financial discipline, and do not have the patience for all kinds of regular work that happens around a group of cases like this. As a result, we have been affected by this and may not have had enough success in developing it. That is why a long - promised and challenging operation has resulted in various treatment options. This is unfortunate because these pioneers and those who burn to do so often have the greatest creation in progress. They primarily need support and tolerance in order to develop their functions so that they become a powerful, long - term success site. Investment in this field, in the treatment, or in the measures needed for those who are visible to walk onto this path, or have received their first judgments, is required. My experience from the police, my reading judgments, and experience with the court tells me that this is not the case with local courts judging young prisoners, i.e. not being used in public penalties to go anywhere but to judge in prison punishment too early. It's not my experience that it is. I feel that everyone in this system is willing to postpone it as much as possible and that they are trying to find all the other ways. Still, this is not going well because the net around individuals between 13 and 22How and 25 years of age is somehow not strong enough. There is a growing issue, especially among young boys who are unable to find themselves in the ways of life that we have in some way marketed them, that just isn't working well enough. We have had excellent results in maternal protection, baby surveillance in the early years of our life, but we still have quite a few challenges at adolescence. One who has been sentenced, one who has been sentenced to death, one who is saved in institutions as such - what can we do for him so that he will find his way in life and not go back to his previous business? Here are some of the principles and various articles on this matter, on community service, on a treatment plan; on a very important matter. These are laws that can be used to help the individual find his or her many in the community and get him off the path of crime over the ways that we consider to be desirable in life. In this we must dare and have the will to invest. Work in this field must be marked by culture and that those who work there burn for what they are doing, feel the harmony and sense of cooperation with the subject, and then develop professional and long - term work. The northern countries are to be our main example in this regard. We need to move so that the work is done sooner. This may apply to other discussions and other laws, how we can better work at high - risk groups. Where do we first indicate that a person may be entering a course that ends with being a subject in those institutions and in the resources being considered here; that it suddenly has something to do with the rights and responsibilities of a prisoner? Of course, our primary concern is to keep prisoners from falling into captivity. I would first and foremost like to emphasize the importance of the seminary, that there will be sufficient funds for the current operation so that it can be maintained and maintained and encouraged that as many people as possible will be called before while this case is being discussed in the Committee.
