ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u1	Borist has a letter from what? 7. We're out of Suðvest. "The Son of Guðmundur, son of Steingrímsson, "that he will not be able to do any congregational work in the near future. Today, then, at the World Council of II, a deputy of the Bears' favorite event, the Freyja Haraldsdóttir. The Freyja Haraldsdóttir, who has once sat at the General Assembly, is welcome back to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u2	By letter, dated September 10th, the president has requested this, as per the 8th chapter of the 1st. 13th par. Parliaments, by the administration and monitoring committee, that they address a report on the National Relations for the Elderly, Their Business, and the Correspondence of 2006-2011.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u3	A respectable president. As the budget is a regular part of the council, it has become a regular part of this most elected period. The prime minister disagreed and did not trust to have a democratic discussion on matters of government at the council Hall. This happens now that the prime minister has taken a number of cases, an extremely important step toward civilization, that it is right and reasonable to discuss their financial aspects at the conference and was required to do so this week. However, the prime minister refuses to bring up the discussion here and discuss the budgets he has taken into the Ministry of Presidency. It follows, of course, the practice that he has developed since the beginning of the season, to refuse to take a special discussion, to do no reporting, and in other ways to avoid discussing the affairs of the country and of the nation here in the Senate, on an equal basis with other members of Congress. Because this is the first time in winter, I'm not going to do much with it on this day, but I urge that the head of the House of forwarders may arrange for prime minister to change his ways and trust to approach others. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u4	For this reason, the president would like to state the following: the arrangement that has been under way today. of the budget bill was adopted at the end of the last term and was produced by the then financier and was actually based on ideas presented in a special bill presented by three political party representatives of the Convention Act. Right into the beginning, the policy was that on the second day of the discussion, it would be presented to include individual professional ministers, and then others could come by certain rules and participate in the discussion of that particular group of subjects. Although this arrangement can always be corrected, basically it has been considered rewarding. At the very beginning, this policy was set to the highest. The prime minister would not be a part of these discussions, considering that he is not a personal professional minister in the sense that we always place in that term. The present arrangement has been in harmony with what was originally in existence and has been since its appointment. It was mentioned at the highest. Whether he wanted to make a change in it this year, the prime minister chose not to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u5	A respectable president. I agree with the comments that came through. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar. I also want to assume that these changes have occurred from last term to the highest. The prime minister has taken to heart specific classes involving the National Museum, the Minning Institute of Iceland, the Ancient Memorial Fund, and the House Peace Fund, which have a total of well over a billion on the budget bill, but the General Assembly of Iceland has no place in speaking with the minister of that billion. That must be considered most unutterable of the highest. The prime minister shuns that relationship with the council. Sadly, it is a rule in this terms rather than an exception. Prime Minister ignores the General. That is the historic position of the chairman of the government to the Generals. This is going to be the highest. The minister of Sigmundur Davíð, the son of Gunnlaugsson, will be remembered most, and likely also the fact. The members of the board come up here and defend it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u6	A respectable president. Once again, if it weren't this clear pattern of behavior. A prime minister may not be so worried about this, but of course there is a billion whom we need to discuss with a professional minister. I can't see that somehow it's very selective. The only question is which Minister we should speak with. If not the highest. Prime Minister, then, whom? Now, as far as I know, it's just that I'm taking the initiative. The prime minister that he accepts these lawsuits, so he is sure to come and talk to us about their financing. I'm sure that's too much. I understand that ministers are busy, but the highest. Secretary of finance isn't acting like that. This isn't the first time we came here and complained about the highest. Prime Minister. He's the only minister who behaves in a storm like this, sort of always, as they say so correctly. It's a rule rather than an exception.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u7	A respectable president. On the third day of a new assembly, the speech begins at the government stand. Here, representatives of the government stand up and continue to demonstrate the obsession that these individual senators feel at the highest rate. Prime Minister. The rules that now work after the council were set up in the last assembly, the last term, let's say, as the highest. Mr. President was so well-behaved. The government that sat then was a memorable cook from power, and the rules that they themselves agreed to and adopted during their last term should not be valid because there are new classes in the government. It's a bit scary for the people of the country if this is the shock of a new council, for everyone had the hope that we had learned from our last term. [[The president calls.]] So I ask senators to spare everyone the speech that took place during the last assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u8	A respectable president. There is no lack of pride among the officials. Secular democracy is extremely difficult at times, being granted maintenance can be extremely difficult at times. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] Reservation can be very difficult sometimes, but you have to endure it because it is a democracies community. The future prime minister made the decision to become more than a prime minister; he made the decision to become a minister of culture or culture; or whatever it is called. He has taken to heart a series of issues that are natural for him to come here and discuss with us. It was not that way during the last terms, so it is incompatible. A respectable president. The Miniature Institute, Ancient Memorial Fund, House Peace Fund, Hausp Office, et cetera. We need to consult with the prime minister. The Ministry of Presidency is not a kingdom or a territory of self-control, it is part of the Icelandic government and man shall come here and discuss his affairs with us. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u9	A respectable president. I think it's the highest. In the past, a president well considered how it is possible that the prime minister is not present in the discussion. It was set here during the last term, when there was a change in the arrangement for a discussion of the budget and is employed by this work ethic today. I think we're working on an arrangement set during the last term. We were, in fact, aware of the loss of the matter yesterday when it was particularly, and particularly the main focus of the government opposition to whom it was thanks to the fine results that would appear in the budget, whether it was the first government or the current government. [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]] A respectable president. The plans of the prime minister were taken here only a few days ago. The Prime Minister will be inconspicuous response next week. Senators of the U.S. government stand have plenty of opportunities and opportunities to have a word with him, but here we are working according to a process that was started during the last term when the present political opposition had more than part of it. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u10	Mr. President. I have to admit, I'm starting to worry a little bit about myself. I've become more and more inclined to scurry. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir was right. She says that we should learn from experience and try to use the past and her experience to create peace and harmony in this council. Then I am not sure that we are united to the goal that it is right to demand that the prime minister come to the council. I can also honestly say that I accept just being invited to the highest level. Helps a prime minister who sits in the hall to discuss various subjects with him. But what I wanted to say was by the highest. The President is the subject of the Þingvaval National Park. I've been on the Parliamentary Committee for 15 years, and each council I've brought here a matter related to him. I would like to discuss his financial resources with the authorities. Now the prime minister is not going to come to the council to discuss it, the case is up to him, and so I ask the highest question. First, can I please direct my questions to the President himself in return?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u11	The president is not sure that he has no answers to any questions. A senator would lay before him so that he fears that it was going to a goat's house to search for wool.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u12	A respectable president. I agree with everything that has happened to my share in this case, about the absence of the highest degree. Prime Minister. I refer to a talk under the same point that I held a year ago, which I think can be quite correct. I have to say, in the meantime. The panel senator spoke of this as being a matter of business last night when we were discussing the budget, that I hardly remember any candidate participating in that discussion, so I feel it comes from the hardest direction. [[The point is, what about that?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u13	A respectable president. It's a pleasure what some people have. The members of the greater part find it hard to believe that here members of Congress can speak over their heads. We've pointed out and acted with a wish, here's no madness, there's no speech going on as it was called, I didn't take full time last, but there's talk of speech. Hv. paritaprevir Ásmundur Daðason Dadadson speaks of a state of inadequacy last night, he starts talking about yesterday's discussion, starting to pretend it's the big deal. It's just a kind request, but as usual, a friendly request to the highest degree. The prime minister or members of the council are responding, as if there were some mad dog barking at the edge of the dog. Senators of the greater part. Hv. Like other members of Parliament, members of the Parliament can relax and participate in their discussions. You can ask yourself: " What was the probability of being the highest? A minister would, not because of the rules, but because of general courtesy, a respectable president, have given us a little time to discuss his issues? The odds weren't because it's the highest. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u14	President. I thank the President very much for clearly reviewing the procedure and was fixed during the last term on the handling of the budget bill. It has changed, however, and a very certain aspect of it changed when the present world power was at its height. Because of his special interest in them, the prime minister took to heart certain classes of issues to govern. That's why it's asked to the highest level. The prime minister is present for the discussion, to discuss those issues. I object that it is called a lawsuit or something like that when we, the proper members of Congress, comment on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u15	A respectable president. Good colleagues. It is good to be back in service, but it took only a few minutes for the same conversation to begin again from the General Assembly's conference program on things that are not planned. However, I loved to hear it. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson tries to settle, so they try to hold their heads and talk about what really matters. I remembered myself, if I were prime minister, would like to stand here and talk about my affairs, I must say exactly as I am. So I don't think it's that person isn't here, but the main thing is that it's going to be changed, so that it's decided so far on and off that the minister will discuss this. And now, let's talk about today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u16	Today, it will be held a 1st. on budgets for 2016 by the Prime Ministers participating in the discussion. At the end of the discussion, financial and economic ministers will proceed. More than one hour is planned for each minister and discussion about his group of lawsuits. The order of the Ministers will be: head secretary, foreign minister, environment and resource minister, health minister, industrial and commercial minister, marine and agricultural minister, social and housing minister and educational and cultural minister. Will be the financial and economic secretary to finish the discussion later today, and the matter will be passed on to the budget board. Now the discussion begins. Ministers have six minutes for the first time and then two minutes at a time. Senators have three minutes the first time and two minutes the second time. Those answers are not allowed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u17	V.E.G. President. I thank you for this opportunity to come here and discuss the cases under the State Department and are being discussed here with the budget. I think it is very important that individual ministers have the opportunity to speak to the council on these matters of opinion. I think these new things, at least. As far as I'm concerned, this is the first time I'm present with a discussion of this kind, being a great improvement. I'd like to make an account of the State Department's affairs. The Ministry's spending is now increasing almost 2.2 billion dollars. on a solid budget of 2015, which is 2.8%. In addition to taking into account the impact of overall pay and prices change, expenses increase by less than 4.8 billion, corresponding to 6.2%, thus increasing over 80 billion in 2016. The annual spending change can be divided into five factors. First, there are some changes in existing budget binding that fall into 2016, with a total of over 2.4 billion. The largest legal contribution to the Slurpee Fund is 814 million, 800 million. K. contributes to the road to increase the cost of winter services and 640 million. K. A temporary contribution to the road generation due to translocation to the industrial region of Backka, 270 million. K. to a court order of interest in public affairs, in accordance with the scientific situation in the courts and in the state of the United States, less than 270 million. K. to attend the expenses of the coming election. In turn, contributions to safety and protection are down by nearly 800 million ends, which are being transferred to the Ministry of State. Second, some temporary donations fall down. Third, because of plans for operating costs for the state's budget, the funds and projects under the Ministry are reduced by 311 million. Then there are over 1,800 million new or increased projects, the highest concern for the establishment of the local district attorney, over 500 million. K. To establish that office, which is, in my opinion, an extremely significant progress. Three hundred and twenty-five million, 250 million on the road, and 175 million on temporary contributions from the rest of the shelterers, but I'll go through that particularly after that. I would like to use my time to give special attention to the radicals of the affairs of the trustees. In the bill, contributions on the subject are expected to increase by less than 200 million, but these numbers need to be revised now. At the same time, the budget needs to be revised to the National Institutes of Iceland and the Commission. We are actually confronted with a new reality, and it is vital that the law take account of it. The numbers speak for themselves. Already, 170 applications for asylum this year, and if they continue to appear, the number may well up to 300 applications per year, but the total number last year was 175. It has been over the last few years to shorten the treatment period for the applications. A quick, active trial is important for applicants themselves, but it can also save a lot of money for government funds. There was a certain success over the last year, but unfortunately we see that the treatment period is increasing again as a result of the stress on the system. We have already responded to the changes in reality, as we have been able to do in this brief period of time. This has happened very fast, and August is completely different. This morning the government approved my proposal to give 50 million already. K. extra money to the National Institute of Iceland to try to control this problem. I repeat, and at the same time ask for the members of the council that it is necessary to revise these coins on the 2nd bill. It is obvious that the figures given by the bill are inconsistencies with the current demand and that the Ministry, while well - intentioned, tried to make significant improvements in terms of our criteria, we could not foresee the change that has been made. Of course, transport has its place in the priorities of the Ministry. We'll raise the total budget to that number in under 1,300 million. K. the real value of last law. However, there is little need for us to meet the financial goals of transport, as it was proposed in a shrinking spring, and that is, of course, disappointing. I will submit a new transport plan over the next few weeks, and in 2016 it will look somewhat otherwise. This, of course, means that we need to reduce our assignment. That's just the way it is, we're setting priorities for the government. We are setting priorities for welfare matters, and we are, of course, dealing with the better things that were approved here in spring. Of course, this affects government business, and the Ministry of Internal Affairs is involved in meeting these changes. That's 744 million for the district attorney, where 500 come from the Ministry with a new money, and then we bring in another amount of money, allowing the office 774 million to get our proposal to start business. This is a big boost to the prosecution and an increase in the security of citizens. I think it's a very progressive situation. It's impossible for me to cover this very carefully, but we can talk about it better afterwards. Of course, the Ministry is prepared, and I, to take any time to address the issues under the Ministry. I'd like to mention that there are no changes to the Western Islands vector plans, there are no funds in the ferry, but it is behind the clear will of the government for that project to be carried out and that it is being done at the Ministry. [[The president calls.]] I ask the council, a respectable president, to look especially upon the delicate case that is being carried out by the State Department of State and ask the council to take a close look at that group. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u18	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for an excellent report on the affairs of his Ministry during the very brief time she has. I'm going to be like her to dwell on the affairs of refugees and candidates for international protection and, in fact, only talk about it. V.E.G. Ministers come here and ask for the council's help, and she certainly gets it, at least in the field of government, and I don't doubt that a great understanding is also in order. The members of the board. It seems that this class, perhaps just this group of languages, a very controversial class, has succeeded in a sincere, deep, cross - political controversies on what to order them to do. I also say for my part that I consider myself to be praiseworthy how the highest. A minister has dealt with this group and has not questioned her understanding of him. I am completely aware that the weather has taken place quickly, and I am not going to make a disagreement with the government that I feel a lot is missing on the bill. V.E.G. A minister points out what we all know that during the past few months, significant changes have occurred. With all due respect to the highest. However, as a minister, I believe that she cannot come here and refer to their problems when discussing, for example, the lack of money at the Foreign Institute. She was totally lying, and it's not just that, we know that the Foreign Institute is often in a very thankless environment on a very difficult situation and is doing much better than many think. It is true, however, that despite more pressures, water is not kept merely by means of financial contributions, it is not added, it has cut down less than 30 million. The newborn cannot be excused with the marvelous problems we face. V.E.G. A minister mentioned three key elements in the current bill, i.e. Residents, 399 Foreign Institutes and Exhibits of Foreign Affairs, but the highest. A minister did not mention two key factors. One, for example, is the reception center. It has been signed, the contract has been established at a cost that I remember to have been around 160 to 180 million. K. The deal's up. I guess I haven't been here in a while, but I couldn't find it in the budget bill. Terrorists, the decision has been made to make at least 50, but now the European Union has ordered us to accept our share. I figure it's 110◯120. Who's five billion? K. Only the 25 who are expected to arrive next year will cost 125 million. K. Where is it? So I'm going to discuss 399 Aggressors, funding for candidates for international protection, after which hundreds of millions are missing, compared with the words at the highest level. Minister dropped here earlier. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u19	A respectable president. As I had planned for the old Ministry when the proposals were offered in the late spring, early summer, to spend a considerable amount of money on the security team, well for another hundred million dollars. Then, in mid - August, it became clear that there was not enough money, and I was the first to draw attention to the need for improvement and that I would fight for more money in that respect. Of course, I agree with those words. A senator mentioned about the Foreign Institute. There is a very good job there. We made more money for her last year to meet the tail she was dealing with, thinking that we could be more effective than we have, but it didn't work, and that's especially why I wanted this morning in 50 million. K. to cope with the problem. There are a number of explanations. Of course, I can't explain all things, but I can explain in part that at the end of the year, new options began to be received, i.e. The case of foreigners, and it has taken it, natural, ever to get its work balanced. During the end of the last year, I'd like to say, a little slowed down in the first half of the year's decision to face a number of people that were then consulted by the Ministry on the decision of the Supreme Rulers. All of this is natural, but it meant that more money was needed and the ministry'hope that faster efforts simply did not work. Therefore, it is my duty to call attention to the council and again request that the council kindly acknowledge it. I know, I feel and thank you. A senator for his understanding of this case. At the same time, I'd like to say that it will never be possible for us to realize what this crowd is like. This will always be a tiny talk to our air, but I think that in this view right now and maybe in August months to teach us that we should make room for more than just a limited amount of money. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u20	Mr. President. Last year, 173 candidates for international protection arrived in Iceland. It was 2014. In terms of government bills, they were costing 463 million. It was seen years earlier this year that only that year would be far beyond that. So we can assume that by the next year, at least the same thing has to be expected, of course more because of the situation, but it is expected to be 475 million. K. It's kind of been taken care of. Two times 200 million. K. There are two contracts with Reykjavíkurburg and a town called Smokejanes, each of which accounts for 70 applicants. There are 75 million left to care for the rest. In that case, you will see the level of the waste for which it is going financially. Based on the numbers at the highest. A minister made it clear before then, considering that the situation will remain unchanged and will not be increased next year, simply concluding that there is at least 475 million missing. Then if you go over these terms, there are certain conversations that I'm not going to take here so as not to stumble the Minister, but they're pretty high. I'm not doing this to do anything against the Minister because I support her in her efforts, and I'm thinking that in this matter, you should try to promote harmony as much as you can. [[Up front.]] This is a seminary, and I will certainly not lie on my team trying to cut out more money, but the minister must follow the support she has at the council by stamping his heavy foot and perhaps a cake also wriggling against the government. A minister cannot just come and say with tears in his eyes: " Help me! ' She must also live up to her responsibility and bear her weight in the government. It's important. I could say a lot of things about the DA's committee, but, of course, it doesn't work in the face of the situation we're in right now to be with a panel that meets once every two weeks. [[The president calls.]] It'll be the highest. Minister to restore.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u21	A respectable president. The Matrix doesn't have to worry that I won't use all my weight to get the money needed for this suit. It is not acceptable for us Icelanders to face the difficult situations that are now creating to fail to handle the challenges we face. I think it really matters to us that we Icelanders realize what it means to receive people and do them well. Of course, in order to be able to do so, we need to protect money, not only to the factors under this Ministry, who are taking in the centres of an application procedure, but also to the ones I intend to do so. In fact, a senator mentioned his talk and turned to the highest. Department of Social Affairs for armitarians. It also makes it obvious that much more money will be needed in relation to recent plans. All of this is right in that the plans we have obviously failed. I mentioned that the number of people this year could study 300 people, and I don't think it's unwise to calculate that number. Of course, the State Department is preparing proposals to provide financial committees for the development of the case on what we believe is right at any given time. I'll call attention to what. Congress officials suggest that we at the Ministry are observing this now almost every day. We've been trying to share all the information that we possibly can with the public in order to explain what this is all about. As soon as I say the numbers are on the ground, we need to realize that we have to make up all the time. This case will probably be very alive during the financial process, and I know that men will understand, of course, but it places a great deal of obligation on this Ministry, and under it we will rise. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u22	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of the Interior for his numbers here. I must say, though, that it really disappoints me and undoubtedly many others, and it really concerns me that she preached a road program much less than the one laid down in spring. Of course, when the government is surging on the budget of 15 billion, it can be asked: Is it real when we have an unfunded road system, when we have health care and so on.? I'd like to raise a few questions here, and of course I know that a minister can hardly answer all of them during the minutes she has, but it is important that it be shown here in the Council of Athlell how much money will be spent on a new road operation next year and how much money will be spent in maintenance. How much funding goes to port? Where do most of the money go? You're going to highway 1 and the Berfjörður? When will the animal tunnel be sent out? One large question that the last government never expected would be taken from the general road conditions: Will the additional cost of Bakka be taken from the general road money? Then I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on the flight. Is the cost of flying outlets secure? When faced with a decision and money provided for the flight, i.e. Will flight costs be dropped between your country partner, Reykjavík, and the country area, as a staff suggested? This is a very important community. It is also important to note that 500 million will be cut down to build up airports in many parts of the country. All I know is that the airport's just been fixed. Is this the year to complete this assignment? Is this possible? If this is not possible, will a minister make sure that these 500 million will not be taken out of that assignment? Then I'm afraid there'll be more than me and a few others here who will rise on their hind legs and be heard. This is vital for transport throughout the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u23	V.E.G. President. I have to pray. A senator giving me pity that I can't answer all these questions right now, but I will seek answers to all of them and cause them to wonder. Senator. I'd like to report a few things here. First of all, Backing up is not to be taken from the limited resources spent in the transport program. Like what? That's why the senators remember this special case for us. I have strongly objected to the confusing of these activities with traditional transport projects. I can also make it clear here that I did not like the fact that this was a means of transportation. However, that was the unanimous opinion of those who happened to be known and better than I had to, but it was always very rigid on my part that this would not lead to men taking from the limited resources involved. With regard to animal tunnels, there is no less policy than that when the Arctic tunnel escapes, there will be an animal tunnel. However, I am obliged to do so, and I would really like to see it happen so that members of the Parliament realize that the funds placed in a annual tunnel are 3.5 billion. Of course, as they enter a tunnel, they do not go to another. Nevertheless, that is not the case with me. The animal tunnel is next in line as already observed. There's quite a lot of money in the upkeep. It releases 8 billion dollars. I'd also like to mention it because of our recent success that we were working under less than 2 billion this year on new projects. Of course, these funds are not grown up and will move to the next year and will be useful next year as well. [[The president calls.]] The plans for the airports, Guvjar, Húsavík, and the photo sets will continue, but the 500 million that arrived last year were the decision of the council, a single-change operation, not the Ministry's proposal. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Nevertheless, we will continue with the work that we have already promised to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u24	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. It's important, and that's why a man notices, so I'll start just because the Minister released the word, about the 500 million that the council suggested and agreed, that this operation will continue and that it will be completely guaranteed. What I'm interested in is whether it's next finished this year, i.e. more than now has been done in Gugri, or whether the funds are moving all over next year so that those at home can be sure that they are. I also wanted to try to get some numbers, i.e. The difference in newly spent - 2 billion new projects this year is very small. The difference between years would have to be illustrated. Is there a significant increase? Denials were not answered. It is a question to draw it up here only where the major docks should be carried out and how much is planned for them. Then we've got the unsurpassed flight to these little places. Is that guaranteed? At the end, I'd like to mention 300 million. K. which is designed to be in telecommunications structure. As the State Department knows everything, this is one of the major events that burns in the region. Since there are some 3,500 homes and businesses that do not have satisfying communications, it is very important to make sure that they are quickly secure to ensure that all of the country is inhabited and students can come to their homes on weekends, but in many places they cannot do so because they cannot learn through the computer. The 300 million that are laid there will not do at all. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u25	A respectable president. The less than 2 billion I talked about. Of course, there is an addition to the funds already set out in 2015. We assume, as I said earlier, that part of that money will be transferred to 2016. In addition to that, there is an increase in the budget of the road to less than 1,300 million. K. Much of that money is being maintained, and my policy is to place great emphasis on maintenance of roads, also new ones, which are less efficient than it is. That is why I specifically mentioned these 1,800 million because they were thinking about such projects plus the more than 300 million. I emphasize that the maintenance of the road system is an extremely important matter and a huge security issue as well. We need to do so much better. They're making great use of money. All new projects immediately begin to number half - a billion. In maintenance, you get so much money, so I think it makes sense to you for setting priorities and speak strongly about it as soon as I naturally mention it, of course, that I don't take any less of it, to go on major new projects as well. It's a project that takes a long time to work. Even if we at the Parliament were to put tens of billions in road affairs, we would just decide one day, it would take us a long time to take advantage of the funds because it is such a plan for these things. It's not gonna happen in a day. Despite the fact that we need to do better, this bad luck is also good. As for the flight, we're heading for an invitation right now to the sustained flight. I didn't say that in my case before. We expect contracts to be renewed at New Year's. I don't have any ideas about dropping down the places in which we are flying, but I have to continue with the places we've had so far. [[The president calls.]] It's not yet available, but at the New Year's Eve, I assume that new contracts will go into effect. With regard to the waterfront, very brief, it's clear that we really need a lot of money on the docks. [[The president calls.]] We are going on projects that are necessary, but much more has to be done on ports. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u26	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of the story and the discussion here. What I want to begin with is to agree with the Minister and the Chief. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Acquirer and stressing that additional financial resources are needed for foreign affairs. In the world in which we now live, we need considerable funds so that we can fulfill our commission in that area. In this category of languages, as mentioned, significant improvements have been made, but in order to achieve their success, funding is needed to follow to the DC, Reception Centres, Foreign Institutes, the welcome of dawners, the welcome of the hospicers, and the receipt of those who submit to the application for international protection, the status of a fugitive. No more about the issues involved, except to stress that this is urgent. What really disappointed me in the field of the Minister of the Interior are transportation funds. However, I like to hear that there is no emphasis on maintenance and that I want to hear more about how it's being maintained, how it's different from other roads, and whether there are plans for it. We've seen this summer in the environment I live in North and East where malarkeys have not been used until late August, some not even been revered, and others are just in a state that they can't be avenged. In that way, people have to go to work every day, to school, they have to run mail, and so on. I'd also like to ask about the rural fiber development, i.e. when to expect priorities so that costs and plans can be considered. Then I'd like to celebrate and join a minister. I think it's very positive that the funding for the district attorney has been increased. As far as I can see, there's an increase in funding for the county service and general law enforcement in the country and would like to be explained if there's any time. I look forward to the work ahead of me making a good financial bill even better.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u27	V.E.G. President. As the Senate knows, the Ministry has been working at communications policies, as it were. A senator came to see, the strategy to increase national communication security so that we can level, I say, the residence and opportunity of all the people of the country to work from their homes. The strategy is still in operation at the Ministry, and hopefully we'll be further introduced to the council in the future. You know, about a question or two. The senator's maintenance of roads is natural, so we work according to the non-status transport programme, if that could be said to do so, i.e. Of course, transport proposals are based on a synonym so that it is not that individual Ministers can at some point tolerate transport policy, but it is a long-term policy we work on at any given time. As I have said before, over the past few years, solid emphasis has been placed on maintenance. I can't exactly answer questions right now. A senator on certain routes and such factors in other ways than the previously mentioned policy. It was all right. A senator named law enforcement and county. We've added money to the seminary, the politicians because when the system of action changed, the office could not be fully humanized on the basis of current financial legislation, and the need for a member of both the Mountain and the Far East felt absolutely necessary, it would be guaranteed, and it's guaranteed in the above proposals. It is of utmost importance that this important service in the province is based on solid foundation, that does not mean that you have this office if you are not willing to give them the money needed and the suggestions on which the table is set assumes it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u28	A respectable president. Actually, I didn't expect to say it again, but it's not enough to take it off. I want them to continue to stress that when a priority plan is established and the cost of fiber - opticization is taken into consideration, with the aim for the next year's money to be provided for the project. I'd like to hear the Minister's vision of the treatment of a fiber - optic strategy when it comes in. Then I'd like to hear a little more about the county office and their growth. There are additional funds for a number of projects than to add the county religion, which I believe is very important to get caught now, and I would like to hear about the projects that are, like the growth of law enforcement.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u29	V.E.G. President. There are two main points I'm going to take to heart in a talk. Senator. First of all, what I just came in on last year's answer to the optic cable suit. Of course, when it is such a policy, it will be very thoroughly introduced to the council, and the next year it will be expected to make money, but as I say, this structure is not expected to take place in the next year. Here we are discussing long-term policy that requires considerable preparation and agreement with members of the organisation that may carry out such projects. As for the politicians, the task now was to secure the money they needed in order to run their offices in a decent way. In my opinion, it is difficult to have a county office in large settlements, as I did in the case of the Far East and the mountainous region. The mountainous region is a delicate rural society, and it is also a remote community, without being represented by the county council. There was no county councilman in those places, and I don't think so, and I stressed that these funds were available. I'm sure the council agrees that this is necessary. Other than that, the county's wishes for funding are, of course, far greater than I can attend. It's just this sort of thing that people always want more money. These are financial groups, and of course they want to do more work and to do as much as they can in the work they are assigned. Of course, we must set priorities. In this department, it is clear that we need to set our priorities clearly because of what we now do in the area of the trustees. [[The president calls.]] That means we can't do everything. I'd like to, however, report to the top. President, that it is not up to me to make money on account of this group of litigators. [[The president calls.]] There's got to be a new one for this party. [[The president calls.]] I've talked about it clearly in the government, and I'm going to do it at the council, and I'm sure we'll get it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u30	A respectable president. I appreciate the discussion and the answers. This is an enormously important ministry, a number of major lawsuits underneath. For example, a transport program has been discussed and the foreign languages have been discussed, and I will not waste time on it, but I will emphasize the importance of being on those issues. I would like to discuss only the cost of public affairs, which is a factor that repeatedly exceeds financial resources. I'm on a financial committee that has a role, and sometimes I've been asking about it at the Ministry. It's as if it was hard to grasp, and that's why I like to see it on page 6. 344 that the President's Reunion should be considered, and the results will be on the basis of the budget development, but it is not possible to estimate this point. Then I wanted to talk about the consumers' affairs. Now I love the highest. Ministers and believe that when she says she's going to do it, she actually does, and I believe that her foreign affairs are in good hands, but for the consumers' matters, I was disappointed to see that there is a fall in the Neighbours Association and in fact, in fact, to neighbours. We're going to be in the annual prices, important changes, customs, and other things where I'd think there would be a need for surveillance, and besides that, this case is an off-limit in Iceland. We compare ourselves with other countries and especially the North countries where consumers are aware and out of the streets, but it does not come out of the water, but it is because this seminary has been put on schedule and has been funded. I miss it not being done here in Iceland. It puts capitals in the Free Society organization, which can be watchdogs that can speak more strongly than public surveillance agencies, which are in our case of Navitors Lab. True, financial contributions are raised to the Contestance Commission. I'm happy about that. It does not depend on this Ministry, of course, on consumers' issues, but I have to state that I'm disappointed. I'm glad to see that the review of the Government Accounting for Public Affairs is being done, but I'm not happy with consumers' issues, and I'd like to get a minister's answer if it's acceptable to her.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u31	V.E.G. President. First of all, the cost of public affairs. You're right. A senator noted that this team has repeatedly gone ahead of schedule, and it is especially because it has been difficult to predict how it develops. We're not in control of the jury, he's in the laws of the courts. The Ministry can only try to guess reasonably wisely which money is needed, and it hasn't done well enough. This is a significant increase because this time, it is our will to try to put our arms together. So I believe these numbers are much more realistic than we've seen in the past few years, a considerable increase. We live in the Ministry of Homeland, a group that we often have under control. I know we're not always the favorite Ministry in the field. A financial committee, a work that is difficult to predict, is on our mind. It's one of those joints. We've been over the top-secret business. There certainly is another team like that. Let us not forget, in the case of the heavy - scale winter service. I recommend a significant increase to winter services in these budgets of 1,800 million. K., no less. While they are in addition to winter services, it is evident that they do not have other projects. At the same time, we Icelanders stress that people, whether they live in the southwest corner, are safe or not, where winter service is the most honorable, let us not forget, the longest money goes to winter service around the capital area. Often, the talk here is that it is most in the most scattered parts of the country, while holding up the highway routes from the capital takes the most money for them, it is good for senators to remember during this discussion. But there is also a shovel in the North, and so do we. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'll have to come back to the consumers' business later.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u32	A respectable president. I appreciate the answers. You're right. You're right. A minister says that instead of short - willing things, he puts more realistic amounts of money. I was going to celebrate it and do it here, I think it's very good. We see this repeatedly, as though there is some tendency to misappoint, and although these are irregular joints, you still see that these are often too small. The same is true of winter service, and more is needed. I'd like to ask you something. I hope a minister will answer me about the consumer business after this, but I'd like to ask about the prison case as well. I think we've had prisoners here quite well. I've been studying that language and find it very interesting. I feel that we can do so much better and that, in fact, we need to shape a whole new course. It may be costly at first but saves for a long time, and it is very important that transnational reconciliation be done on that course. I'm thinking, for example, about psychological services, the study of prisoners, and reforms, everything in that word, even more options, such as protection, which is much less expensive than prison security. I don't seem to be expected to be raised in this group of litigators. While a new prison is being opened that will help, there are still an amazing number of prisoners who are still waiting for a loan. In fact, it is a violation of human rights when prisoners are left waiting for even a year to serve, to have a family, to work, and so forth. I think this is a very important group of paintings. He was not approached by a minister, but I would love to hear only about her views of consumers and prisons.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u33	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for nameing the prison cases. There is a bill to legalize fully revised legislation in the field of full punishment, which I think is a great requisite. As a result of that bill, I assume that the Ministry will carry out further work in the fields of full-time and that the law of law will be taken into the general law of penalties to see if there is a reason to add punishment, to which the factors are considered. A senator mentioned. This is an important group of subjects. Of course, there I am talking about community service and such things. There's a slight increase in prison. We're just finishing up the jail at Hólmshök. It's not true that I've only heard in the discussion that there is some postponement. It's only a few weeks from the weather. It has nothing to do with financing. It has to do with nails and hammers. It will be completed a few weeks later and will be opened and in use and will make a great deal of difference in this relationship. Only for consumers. In other words, the consumer's case was a little on the move and a little bit on the board. This has not been for the benefit of the group. He hears much of the State Department's office, but he also hears part of it under the Ministry of finance. Then it's my opinion that this lawsuit group belongs at the Ministry of Business and is one of the sort that doesn't fit into the State Department of State, but I can give a long talk on the area of the State Department of State that I intend to protect myself. council members to my opinion. I think consumers are correct in saying that there is no more money left in that lawsuit this year, and this, of course, requires careful attention to the funds given to them. I want to agree with that with what. A senator's importance is to exploit the consumer organizations and have been wondering what we can do at the Ministry, look into them better. It's a project I think it's wise for us to go on.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u34	A respectable president. I have to say, I like the arrangement here, but time stays short, especially for the highest. A minister who gives a clear answer and takes full advantage of his time, but that is not enough. The bell will always be here long before everything really has been said. First, I'd like to say that there's a very positive possibility that contributions to Pernon protection are not reduced. They were raised following the Vodafone leak at the time and are very positive to see that it doesn't go back as you might have expected. I'm not going to do a story about the takeaways, okay? 4th, including Reykv.. n.. This will be fine, and more members of the council will discuss it. In terms of the discussions about the Foreign Institute and Refugee Searchers, I find it important to maintain that when it comes to an institution like a Foreign Institute, it is important to have relatively well - paying employees who live in security and feel that they are there because it is appreciated. There are people who have excessive rights, you see the right to exist in the country, and that, of course, includes all the rights involved in being here, such as travel, talking, etc. I think it is very important that people who treat such people of freedom or those who have great rights where great interests are at stake are regularly rewarded, regardless of pressures. Speaking of which, I'd like to mention a special prison facility. It shows that expenses for the seminary are summarized by an average of 11.5 million. K. Now, this is how I hear from prisoners, prison guards and people inside the prison system, that the prison system can't stand more cuts. This is at the point where sheep are threatened with the safety of prisoners and prison guards. I suggest that when people treat people who are in need of freedom, are badly rewarded, and are under stress, as days of illness are increasingly used because of stress, they may have very serious consequences. Tired and frustrated individuals who have a lack of appreciation and who do not experience themselves in a position to do their best, that is always a risk of getting out of a fund at some point, especially when people are discussing matters like the subject of a prisoner. Thus, I find it extremely important to increase the amount of donations made for prison lawsuits, at least to avoid an increase in cuts. Now I know that the Hill Penitentiary will probably reduce stress, but it's not in use, we're not in that place yet. So I suggest that when we get to the point where the pressure is not so intense on the staff of a prison agency and on all those involved, we reduce the demand and focus on it. [[The president calls.]] Now that I have no more time, I'll finish my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u35	V.E.G. President. It should be noted that in the case of the Ministry of State, it was fixed at 0.7% of the cases and is lower than it has been in the previous years. It is the general agency that was placed in the Ministry outside the Ministry that was divorced from the provision requirement, and that is the Department of Health. This is explained by the priorities of the government in that direction. Also, it was a little lower in education, but I remember that it was 0.5%, so it was a long number. A senator mentioned the matter of prison justice only to the officer who appeared there. We've been trying to push on money in prison, and it's been hard for us for years, for decades, to give them the leeway that he needs in the government. It's a very sensitive group of paintings, like many other lawsuits that we hear, but we have to understand that these classes need to be given and we've been pushing it forward. Of course, Hólms Vacation is very important, but not least what I mentioned just from above, and I know why. A senator probably has in mind, i.e. The general setting of those who need to be in this system. I think that as soon as we look at the funds, we also need to examine the regulations and resources we can use for these groups and that makes me feel that the bill that is about to come is important. I agree with it. A senator mentioned, i.e. how important it is to have good staff. I think we all agree on that. I'd also like to use this opportunity to say that in the Foreign Institute, there are natural spirits who are working under tremendous pressure and who have been doing amazingly and amazing how long these people work under that great pressure. As soon as people cope with their difficult assignments, they have been successful and have been included in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u36	A respectable president. You're absolutely right at the highest. Ministers and I agree with them, they stand by themselves in a very fine way, and they really need them under these circumstances. I understand that requirement. I have, to say, what I have to say about it in the matter of the Prison Department. I just think it's right to hold on to it, and I think it's the best. A minister agrees with me that employees within the system that treat people's freedoms and rights must be properly rewarded regardless of pressures. There are also police officers, who, in my opinion, are accursedally rewarded and who work under very trying circumstances and out of unappreciative work, as well as staff of the National Institute of Iceland that we all know, and then prisoners, and all others who work on the floor with freedom-like individuals or persons who have great rights at stake. In view of the fact that the state's budget is no longer out of place and in view of the formation of a crisis in many parts of the system, we should at least stop this maintenance requirement for now until we reach the highest level. Minister mentioned changing the setting, using the prison at Hólmsuk, etc. There was something else I wanted to mention, but I don't think we have time to talk about it in this discussion. I feel that time is all too limited, a respectable president, because I'm also going to enter the network security business, but I don't believe I can do it in seconds, so I'm going to let it wait for a discussion on the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u37	V.E.G. President. Of course, I'd like to take part in an ongoing discussion about the budget bill. When 1st. The matter will be closed and again before the assembly of 2nd. Of course, I will be prepared to answer the questions that are being heard by the State Department because it is obvious that I have only correctly joined a few points in the brief discussion here. However, I would like to state that I still feel that special ministers are here to answer at a particular time regarding their lawsuits. I think it's a good thing to do, but that doesn't make it any time the Ministers can discuss the lawsuits that they hear and should, of course, do it. I would like to draw attention to myself as to the opinion that it is healthy for the government to hold it, that people are always considering the resources of the taxpayers and the community spent in the lawsuits. Reservation is normal, but it is always the question of where to make the most of it. Therefore, I would like to state that, of course, I was happy to see that it was slightly less of the intervention of the Ministry now than it was in the previous year, we can always decide in itself to spare the individual litigation parties, but frankly, it seems reasonable to me that there is always a policy of government management. But with regard to prisoner issues and police experiences, I would also like to highlight a different setting on them. I'd like to draw attention to it here, since I have grounds, that in the bill being proclaimed as the ultimate punishment, a prison guard's education is quite a factor. We also have a job in the Ministry now because of police education, so the same factor is the extravagance of those who are involved in these important activities. Of course, wages are always important, but it is also important that education, preparation, and learning have been completed so that they can shoulder their most important responsibilities in life. Otherwise, I want to thank you for the discussion that has been conducted here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u38	V.E.G. President. This is an interesting discussion, for the area of the State Department is very wide. I'm here to discuss the affairs of the trustees. In my discussion, I observed that people agree to do better with the budget, since circumstances have changed very much since the work of the budget was done, and we all remember as one thing, I suppose, band together to try to assess where the funds are lacking and to improve. The target centre is under budget 399. I want the Minister to go over it with us. It is the focus of the government and the government that the Reception Centre will become a powerful unit to fulfill its role, i.e. To take care of the welcome of the inmates who come here, review the points with those who need to be explained, and then get them back into the system. This is in 399, for which it is not divided, but I would like to reiterate that it is government policy that the reception center be strong. I'm worried that the issues of trustees and refugees aren't all in the same place within our system. I believe they have the best place to go to the State Department. I've gathered information on the ways in which things are handled in the countries we like to compare with, and thus they're made to stand in one place and the Ministry that looks like our State Department. I have studied Holland, Belgium, Germany, the United States, Canada, Norway, Sweden, and Ireland. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on one point, i.e. then those who are now in the country. We all know the wave that happened a few days ago in the community, where people offered their assistance and rural groups to receive the people of the West. But it's not the only people who are looking here. Here are those seeking refuge, and here, for example, are families from Syria today who are waiting for increased service. We have families with children who have not yet been given room in the schools of the country. That's why I'm so worried. I'd like to call for a minister to inform us only about what the situation of this situation is, but I believe that there is a lack of team members who also want to assist and serve this group. Well, it's not just about people who are lovers. It's about the people that have come to us. If we are not able to fulfill our duties toward those people and especially toward those who are at home who are not in the school system, then we need to get in line only before we begin to welcome more people.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u39	V.E.G. President. I can totally agree with that. A senator tells us that we need to welcome those who come here. It has been my emphasis on the discussion that has taken place over the past few days that as we look to the future, we need to take up the work and work on our table. It's true that we have 230 people in a process right now that we need to care for. For Syrian families, it is so that this year, in front of, and just below the last, there were no families involved in that particular group. It was 18 now in mid - August, and then at least two Syrian families have come on separate sides of the New Year's Eve. I don't have numbers about the last days, but, of course, those families have to go to school. We have ten families in the system that we need to get help from our rural society to come into the school system, and it's proved that it hasn't worked out well enough. So I agree wholeheartedly, for our rural communities also need to be alert to the new population. When we do not have more families, it is a matter of concern to a natural person, but we are still involved in these conversations, which occur these days. I'm expecting it to happen since two societies will take over the families. But there's a real challenge. I want to thank you. A senator for mentioning this at the reception center, the team she's under, was unable to get it done in my speech. A foreign agency is developing this resource, the reception center, at a housing in Hafnarfjörður now. She does this at the same time that she is in big business but is being molded and prepared for work, so it is all in progress. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But, of course, it is a serious task for the staff of the Foreign Institute on top of other tasks on her table. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u40	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I'd like to use the minute I have to challenge the communities of the country that have declared themselves willing to receive the saying, "Why are you not ready to accept those in your country because you are now missing that service? " I need these contracts today, and I encourage the people of these rural communities to take advantage of them and to use their energy to point out that this is today's project. That's what we have to solve. We have to get things done so that people are welcome here and are served, and especially if the children get into the school system. Certainly it costs money, it takes effort, but is it not true what people were offering to do a few days ago? That's what's missing today. Let's go work on that project. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u41	V.E.G. President. Rather, as many people would like to be with me, I was quick to thank for the discussion before it happened. paritaprevir Brother Unnur Brá's Konráðsdóttir, who raised her voice. So again and again, I want to thank and thank you for this discussion and for the suggestions that have been made. I want to mention it too - haven't I finished yet? Is there one left?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u42	It's the highest. Minister to ask about...?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u43	I just don't seem to be able to learn the rules. [[Up front.]] I don't understand anything in this conversation, but I mean, I'm going from the chair. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u44	V.E.G. Minister had more than one minute left.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u45	A respectable president. V.E.G. Ministers don't escape so easily, she has to take a whole turn of extra discussions, which is well because we have to go over a lot, she has a wide and large Ministry. I wanted to say that it is most frustrating to see that the government does not contribute more to new road projects and transportation. The minister is evidently of the same opinion, and it was shown in her case that she had wanted to see more money on a new basis, but it was, let's say it nicely, sugar-coated by her when she spoke of a little lucky to try to talk to us courageously. Of course, we cannot enter a year after a year, where funds are not made for the new world. We are in that place now that we really need to get our heads together in a number of areas. For example, today there is no difference, and this government has shown no policy in its long - term growth. This year, about a quarter of the money that was new to 2008 is being developed. That's all. This, of course, has to be fixed because the projects are waiting, and this is a security issue. There is a tremendous increase in the pressures on the transport system of the country through the development of tourists and the growth they have followed, and we simply have to face this by working on it, of course, that we all agree that there is a need to improve the quality of life of people in many parts of the country, and it is the main means of transport, so it's said here. How difficult it has been for us to increase the amount of transport money that we have not even completed a travel program through the council! There's no transport policy, and I'm gonna say it at the highest level. Minister of the state that we don't need support in the United States on increasing there and we, if the government doesn't exist, are willing to back it up. It was also a shock to see that they were about to be taken by 500 million. K. Back to the airport. They're making use of some of that money, for example. ... andwe'dliketoknow that they were keeping their money inside, despite some technical difficulty with what they had to do with them. I'd like to hear from the highest. Minister of transportation policy. Is there a plan for improvement, and what steps should be taken? [[The president calls.]] Is it possible that we will be able to complete a realistic policy plan for the winter? What will they do and how much money will the Minister think we can and have to join the seminary in the years ahead?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u46	A respectable president. Of course, it is extremely shocking, not to a deeper degree, that there are currently no means of transportation. During the spring months, it was the third time that the transport program could not be supplied at the council. In fact, I didn't have much hope for that plan in spring, for I put it all too late as I already have and is no reason to say anything more. Nevertheless, it was submitted so that they could see the underlying policy. On the other hand, I am determined to bring in a new transport plan for the first. It would be far less convenient for a transport plan to arrive in the spring months, so it would be much better for it to come as soon as possible after a meeting. I hope she'll be here in the next few weeks, i.e. A four - year transport program, but as for winter, we are expected to have a 12 - year transport program. I think maybe that's the plan that's gonna be very exciting for us to discuss, because it's where we're naturally in a long-term policy break in transport. I think that's where we'll see a better policy that will be won in the years ahead. This, of course, is a project that will go against all terms, not a project that is controlled by some government. We've been working this steady year after year. We know that 2008 was a very successful year in transport, and comparing ourselves with that year is rather an adverse comparison. Then, as we know, there was a tremendous increase in money on transportation, which, of course, helped us through the shocks that resulted from having done so. I'm not going to mention any numbers in this regard, but I can say that the temporary secretary of transportation often has very different ideas about what money needs to go on in transport, such as the financial secretary of the day. However, it is obvious that not everything will be done for everyone, and there was a great deal of priorities in these budgets. There was also an increase in spring expenses according to the government budget we had worked for. Well, then I'm looking at the rest of the men in which we went. [[The president calls.]] It was only a limited amount of money we had planned for 2016 that we could set aside transportation because the government was determined to prioritize more highly on other lawsuits.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u47	A respectable president. Indeed, in 2008 there was a great year of construction. Today, only one quarter of the budget is being proposed for that year. It's just that I'm offering less than half if we look at it in 2004. We are in all comparison with historically very low in donations. It's true that it flows between the terms of the season. What the government is working with now are plans that were proposed in the days of the former governments. Nothing new has come from this government. We need to start seeing the cards when we have a million tourists in the country and a tremendous amount of stress on the transportation system, then we have to start to see how people are going to increase their money on transport in the years to come. A respectable president. I'd like to go back and ask the highest. Minister - speaking of travel services, there is no qualification. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller now, along with other members of the council, presented a case facing airports, international airports, e.g. in the fields of Egls and Akureyri - which are about to go to the Ministry. A minister begins to work to suggest how we could attract an international flight into this field. I have that opinion and maintain my mind on the motion because I consider it very important to travel. First of all, we've managed to get tourists to our country. Second, we have managed to disseminate them well over the year. Third, we need to put more emphasis on spreading them throughout the country throughout the year. The key is international flight into areas other than the southwest corner. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister, if it may be possible for us to go straight to putting money in the market application for this airport, i.e. ... sowe can take on such a project on the loss to come.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u48	A respectable president. May I remind you that this year the government proposed budgets for this year less than 2 billion more on transportation, especially as a result of the tools created in tourism. It was our decision that the transport projects should be used in our general transport system and that they also support the growth that has been in the tourism industry. There's quite a smart policy on the part of the government when such a decision is made. That's what I'm talking about. A senator brings up here--well, it's so fun that this, it doesn't matter which number is mentioned, it's never enough. If I mentioned 100 million, they would probably want 200 million. It's just one of those lawsuits that can take on an endless amount of money. State affairs need to be prioritized, and we need to deal with things here, and I will protect our priorities in behalf of other problems. This simply requires that we be patient in transportation. It's okay. It's okay. As for the international flight, they're now named at work, I can tell you what to do. Senator on that, at the top of the line. Prime Minister, to inspect international flights in certain places across the country. I think that's exactly what they're doing. A senator mentioned, Eglish places and Akureyri. The committee has not completed its work, and I have no information at this stage exactly about what suggestions will be involved. I suppose, then, when these suggestions are presented, we'll discuss them, what can be done in this and whether it is wise to use this airport to make international flights. I agree with what. A senator said that it is naturally vital that we achieve a better distribution of tourists throughout the country. I only know it from the Northeast District. I'd love to see more tourists there. I'm not talking about on the east side of the country where natural beauty is abundant. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u49	A respectable president. I'd like to step up here to two main issues that have not only been published in this discussion but perhaps, firstly, the case of international protection and the status that is ongoing and that has been for quite many loss periods in the Foreign Institute. The highly important institution has been financed for a very long time and has therefore not been able to carry out its assignments with sufficient dignity. We have seen what has been in the Senate committees on the affairs of foreigners that a pot has been broken. V.E.G. One minister says that we may not have seen the extent of the problem and, in many respects, have much more of a subject now than we had for a few losses, and I would like to ask the minister: So what makes the Minister confident that he will suggest on a financial bill that financial contributions to the Foreign Institute go down from year to year? I can't help it. I understand that as the highest. A minister here says about an additional supply of 50 million today, and I especially welcome it. I understand that as the highest. The minister says when he appeals to a parapolitic solidarity here at the council that we greatly add to the 1st and 2nd suit. At the council, and I will not lie on my team and we will not be available in the left movement for the purpose, but the position of the National Institute of Iceland is not a new problem. That's why I want to ask the highest. Ministers in particular, although I would also be happy to hear about the funding at a reception center that I cannot find in the bill. A great deal of this has been discussed on transportation. There is a serious concern that it seems that the present government has failed - we are in the latter part of the ideal period of the reign of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunollson - completely policy in two key areas, on the other hand, in transport and on the affairs of tourism. We are talking about the latest and most powerful industry in the community, which enjoys total loss of government policy. Because transport is truly about infrastructure, especially now about the infrastructure for this important industry, I ask if there is any cooperation between the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of travel in terms of increasing country pressures because of the increased number of tourists. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u50	V.E.G. President. With regard to the reception center, the funds for which it is prepared are the rest of the trustees. It is not unique, but the funds are underneath. In general, extra items were placed in the Foreign Institute for this year to meet the tails of the Agency. They believed that it would be achieved, that it didn't have to be resuscitated. If we take that into consideration, there is no reduction, i.e. If you put it together, it was not intended that there would be a need for extra power. However, it has been found that this conclusion was not reasonable, and for this reason there are now some 50 million others in the Foreign Institute for the United States. There is a significant increase and to be used for the Agency's ability to recruit more staff, e.g. in the field of law to cope with the issues of opinion that need to be resolved and to try to get better control of all of this. I also explained in the past that it took time for a judicial committee of foreigners to get a foothold in the ministry. All of this is added to the increase now occurring, and it has to be noted that this great increase has just occurred in the last few weeks. There was a slow rise in the year we had planned, but it was just weeks since the beginning of the last one. I reject that there is no transport policy and that in force, there is a long-term policy strategy. After that, they're working. Since then, and it's been my focus, increasing the face of the Department of Transport for Tourism, and I have called in particular on the Office of the Ministry of the State that they look after this tourist movement in order to learn from this policy for the future. [[The president calls.]] It is important that these language groups communicate well. In fact, for some time it was the same Ministry as it may be that this is a reason why you feel you need to separate, but this does not depend on the same minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u51	President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. When you meet people across the country, the inhabitants of the country's most scattered settlements, you realize that transportation and communications are the most important welfare issues, based entirely on these two factors, the development of tourism in the region, and the structure of employment in general, that I don't talk about the fact that because kids are going to a more densely populated area, they have to be able to come home on weekends and to continue their studies. In some areas, there is so little communication that they cannot come home, even on weekends. When I'm at the highest. While it is all right to be patient in these matters, a minister says that it is certainly true in some way, yet in many parts of the country, it is so that the settlements have become very weak and at least need a clearer political signal than they should be patient in improving transportation and communication. I'm also very worried about staying on the road. Then I am not just talking about the most diverse, as is true of those who lead to more distant, less remote, and less populated areas. I feel that there is no need for it to be given, at times I think the politicians are busy with new projects, but the local people are busy with the maintenance. Since meals are not cut when snow is shoveled, it may not be just as stressful to us politicians, but it must be done with the means of transportation. At least I welcome the words of the highest. Minister to synchronise transport and the development of tourism. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u52	A respectable president. Actually, I'm on my way west to take on big progress, Westside Road No. 60, since we are gradually pushing ahead with the modern process of bringing us into that community. I can truly agree with that with what. A senator and only himself know the importance of the scattered areas of transport and communication. It is that for every individual in the country, mine knows a great deal of freedom that he has a free choice and can resist. Therefore, these policies are now being developed through communications. I think everyone can agree that it's a big national war to set it up. It is true that everywhere you come, it comes out of every human that maintenance of road is important. Today, the maintenance of road transport is very important. I think that emphasis just increased in recent years. It will also be suggested in a transport plan to increase the maintenance of the capital area as well as in more remote areas. There is also a special check on the portways. The funds taken in maintenance, I don't get tired of mentioning these, making good use of them, and talking about the need to do more on transportation, would be so nice to look at that -- of course, we're going on a big new project, e.g. Eaglenes Road in the capital area, we've completed the Elphune Way, we've got this grand tunnel project going on. Don't forget how much money they take to them. Of the more than 20 billion, 3.5 are found in a tunnel. That's what's been happening in recent years in Iceland, and we're almost always on some funeral project. It is absolutely clear that the money in maintenance will be used very well and that money is quick to come back. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u53	A respectable president. And as soon as I congratulate all of us with a baseless budget this third year in a row, I want to thank the highest. Minister of the state for good discussions here today. I fully appreciate that it is a great challenge to establish priorities in its group, since it contains important social infrastructures, such as law enforcement and transportation, to name something. I welcome the emphasis. The local minister has established communications through the work she has done in preparation for rural fiber - optics. Since I have been part of that group of people, I know that the 300 million people who were granted the case this year were well used in its preparation and in a series of circuits. I hope, however, that when a precise work plan is being developed through the use of other services, there is more money for the project than there is in this bill. I welcome increased funding to various teams, such as the National Church, as I remind them that these are making agreements and that these groups had dropped more than other organizations after the collapse. I also welcome increased contributions to the police and the county, e.g. The chief of the Southnes police, increased funds to his air base to cover the necessary border protection due to the rise in the number of tourists. On the other hand, the National Guard is cut down. True, she is losing some work, but we know that when projects are taken off such institutions, it will always take some time to get to another source. I would have liked to have seen that the National Guard is at the same level as others with increased shipping, increased assignments, and their importance, and I feel that people are not aware of the importance of national security because there is a lot of traffic and there is a lot of foreign ships fishing around here. So I would like to ask, Is it not time to add only this sect so that the National Guard can do more of his work and make the ships more available? I feel like they're lying too much here at the docks, these expensive ships. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u54	V.E.G. President. Perhaps I'd rather mention and call attention to the duties of the DLA that she takes care of in connection with what has been here on the matter of refugees. All I have to say is that for a few lost ships, Ty, along the Mediterranean and saved a lot of people, it has had a great deal of importance to be able to carry on that task. Of course, as if you could always add money to the D.A., but I think it's all right now, the funds that are there to help. The National Guard is a very successful company officer, and they're an excellent watch. However, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that we have to give a considerable amount of money to the D.A., but we are about to have our own equipment replaced. Under those circumstances, there is an enormous amount of investment. We now know that we have helicopters for rent. This results in a high cost of government funds. It is an assignment that we must do, and we must work diligently, but it is getting shorter in order for us to take a stand on how we are going to carry on helicopters for the future, whether there will be continuation of the helicopters, or if a government fund is trusting in us to buy helicopters for landkeeping. Once again, there we are not talking about a few billion people, these are extremely large investments that are underneath but at some point inevitable.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u55	A respectable president. I welcome the highest answer. Ministers and glad she brings up the helicopters, because, in fact, it may just be shameful that we don't have more rotten in it, but I'm glad she's got it on rhythms. The need for the National Guard to carry out some assignment abroad is somewhat thought - provoking. It is a legitimate project, such as the highest power. The minister said, but it is only thought that the National Guard needs some work to do and that we should not give more money. Secondly, this is part of the 662 budget for the docks. I just want to explain the differences in the transport program at the highest level. In the spring, a minister submitted in the course of 2015,2018, and was almost finished here, but ill health fell on the wrong side of negotiations with the government opposition. There are 1,072 million on the 2016 port, now 845 million. As long as we're paying for a level of 9.4 billion fishing fees, we don't have a problem - because we realize that we don't use sea resources except through the harbors, which are cut off like this and to the Reckless Fund of the four-year transport programme 535 million are only 212 million this year. This is 322 million less in Hafuna Fund now than expected in a four - year schedule for 2016. [[The president calls.]] I would've wanted an explanation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u56	V.E.G. President. Of course, it should be noted that transport plans are never funded. The amount of transport depends on the budget, so at any given time, it should always be kept in mind that the figures in transport programmes, even though they have been discussed with the financial authority of the country, they are still until the Council has abandoned a financial bill. In the meantime, the growth in transports that we had planned for the first part of the year was, of course, the priorities for the budgeting work. And it was only then that the result was that waterfront cuts had to be done as well. Clearly, everyone on these machines knows that there is a great need for investment in the land's ports. Many of them are already in their years, and many of them need to be filled in many parts of the country. In the ideal case of both. There are ports that await the necessary maintenance, and this involves considerable sums of money. It's just this kind of budget now that we don't have any more money to play. We need to determine where the expenses go, how to place a lot of money on housing, on welfare matters, and, of course, on a dress code, and how it will have no meaning for other segregations. It's just that they weigh a lot of lawsuits, and it's time to spend money there. Meanwhile, those on transport have to be advised and patient. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u57	President. I'd like to pick up the thread where it went. paritaprevir Brá Koná's Konráðsdóttir, who divorced him, stressed the importance of reaching a very historic job at the Senate Committee that has worked to revise the laws of foreigners. I'd like to thank you very much. The Minister of State for its role as well as the Ministry to make sure that we can pass this historic law through the General, for a long time. I think it's very important that more money is being given now in this suit - but remember that some 25 million people have been pulled down, so this is really just another 25 million - when it is clear that we are starting an event that we cannot handle. I'd like to agree too with what. paritaprevir Brá Konráðsdóttir says that it is urgent that the rural communities take over. Just after this great wave began in the community, a very pleasant wave in which individuals have volunteered and offered to participate in this great task, we were invited to the Red Cross. We had a fine meeting with the Red Cross, which included pouring out volunteers, and they were told that there are just a considerable number of inmates here who already need the exact same help. I'd like to ask a minister if it's not a little dangerous when you drag people down like that. Of course, there is a sharp difference between the eaters and the services given to them and others, but it should not be a challenge for us to help, e.g. families who are already here and may have waited a long time? Although there is today a great wave of tsunami, there are still too many waiting. All I want to do is ask her if there is anything we can do here at the council to make sure that the course that the minister has already brought in a lot of these matters is still open and the necks of the bottle won't be too many.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u58	A respectable president. We in the Ministry of State have also encouraged the local communities to look also to those seeking refuge when offering assistance in this delicate matter. In fact, I think that although this has come quite fast now, it can hardly be said that the systems we have created have been thought of for the conditions in the world and for the migration that we see today. This is so much so much that it is very difficult for a small country or any country to try to get caught up in a refugee welcome when suddenly there will be a change and variation, I want to say, in what we see now and in what might be considered normal under normal circumstances. That's why we're now, as soon as we deal with this problem, trying to streamline this system. I agree with what. A senator says we need to get a better grip on it. I think we're doing this, but it's all going in the right direction. A senator, of course, is well acquainted with his work on the Senate Committee. It all needs to be looked at. Of course, you have wondered what is best when such an increase occurs. Clearly, the highest knowledge is on the scene of the National Institute of Iceland, so it is far better to bring her more money so that she can grow better than to be making extra resources and thereby complicate things. I think we should build on what we have, and I'd like to say it's also nice that this Minister's Committee is being taken up on refugee matters. All of this has helped us at the State Department to get people to understand more fully this series of issues we've been fighting with for years. This discussion now really helps us, and the public is beginning to understand what is happening, and it will be easier in all public discussions. [[The president calls.]] This is very important to us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u59	President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. How happy we are that in spite of today's critical times and the situation in Syria, public eyes are opening up to what this is all about! It's about humanity, and it's about that we often have to force ourselves to see things the way they are in order to respond and feel the humanity in us to take this extra step. That's what the public is doing. Actually, the public in Iceland has taken up this extra step. Then it's up to us who are here. In the end, the Council is responsible for the budget, so I also want to impress the General on this budget so that we don't get caught off track. It would be horrible. It's a good thing. I just have to say, I'm so unfathomablely grateful that this work had come something before we got this wave. I'd like to encourage the highest. Minister to action, as a matter of course. It's a legal committee. I know that there is an extraordinary knowledge of this council of particular subjects. Of course, there's a lot of things at the Ministry. Ministers to consider, as well as many cases that have been starving for some time. I just want to say hi to the highest. Ministers are successful in handling all the complex issues of the minister's table.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u60	V.E.G. President. Thus, they happen to be below the realm of activity. There are very different local ministers in hearings, as has been reflected in the recent discussion, on the other hand, on issues previously heard by the Ministry of Justice and on the other hand, in the affairs of the old Department of Transport. Of course, the discussion is a sign. First, I was going to say that I agree with the highest level. Regarding the matters that have been associated here with refugees, refugees, and the institutions responsible for their affairs, one minister said: "I am a minister, and I am a minister. " You're absolutely right at the highest. Ministers that we may face more changes in this area than we have seen since the end of World War II. It is said that the number of refugees in Europe or who are heading toward Europe is more than has been since World War II when millions of people certainly moved from one place to another. This makes it normal for institutions to handle these matters to adjust to a completely different reality. I welcome the policies that the Minister has set in motion in this regard, hoping that we will be able to follow through on the scripts that have been discussed here. I was going to mention in this context briefly that we too need, of course, because we are in so many changing environments, considering other institutions that have affected the aspects of these matters. Then, for example, I'm wondering about law enforcement agencies or police departments who've been involved in this. I have previously mentioned border police, state police diagnostics, U.S. Marshal's International Department, and other important roles in the context of information and international communication. I wanted to bring it up in this discussion. I'm also going to name the transport. Of course, like many members of the council here, I have been concerned that transportation is not getting enough money. I'm not going to make a comment to the priorities that have come out of the highest order. Minister. However, I am concerned that despite efforts to improve the current road system, we are not doing enough. In fact, this means that we are primarily postponing problems for a while in that area. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u61	A respectable president. I'd like to mention, because of the words that have fallen by. A senator and like today's debate over the issues of trustees and refugees and the situation in Europe today, that it is proper to refer now to World War II in the problem we see today, that we are approaching the disastrous situation in World War II when Europeans were away from their homes, and European train stations were all full of refugees. Of course, that was a terrible problem. In this relationship and because of the problems we now face, let us realize that this will last for a long time. It's not that Icelanders can decide that there's so many people in Iceland and then it's going to be fast. It won't be like that. I predict that we are looking at a considerable number of years ahead of time, where we can see further escape to Europe, so let us realize that this is not going to be a tent for one night. I think it's wise for us Icelanders to plan a little further, try to think further. I don't want to know about this, but I wouldn't be surprised if we were even seeing ten years of this crisis in Europe. That is why it is so important that, right from the start, people have practical plans. Of course, at the State Department, we look to those institutions for reasons. A senator mentioned. I agree with that, border defense, and such things are of enormous importance. But let us recognize, Icelanders, that this is not an assignment for a year or two; this is certainly a ten - year assignment we are doing here. It's a trend in Europe that we can't see at the end. This should be kept in mind when making decisions in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u62	V.E.G. President. I'm very happy that I did. Minister sees things with these eyes. This is so much current and the dramatic event that unique work does not solve the problem. In some way, we need to adapt our institutions to the fact that this can be a long - term challenge. Back to the transportation process, I realized that I wanted to see more money go to them because transportation projects have been sliding right from a collapse. I reiterate that I feel that we are facing some cumulative problem that needs to be resolved. I think the highest. While a minister is trying to do what can be done with limited financial resources, I would like to use this opportunity to say that further work on the transport program should, of course, bear in mind that we are working out of a situation that has been highly unnatural, i.e. excessive contraction of this field for an unusually long period of time. I want to direct one question to the highest. A minister related to this, and that is a question that has regularly occurred in recent years about the development of Dizziness pathways that have been decided by human ideas to be on their own and/or financed by charges or something like that. For at least 20, 25 years, there are ideas and speculations about the location and the like. I'm wondering what my first attitude is. A minister to reinvest their case and consider how it can be accomplished without necessarily having an influence or limiting the potential for other transport projects. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u63	A respectable president. For a long time, I've been interested in making Daffy Ways. There are many reasons why plans for this project have been delayed. Hv. A senator mentioned the state - to - city affairs of the land's well - being. I think there's every reason to go through it if there's any landing. I strongly believe that such a project should be a private project, and in fact, we should look to a private project in the transport system. Of course, it also matters under these circumstances that we do so, even if we look to the development of government funds, it is appropriate for the private people to come out of the expanding power of government funds. Everything will help with this. I agree with that. Other than that, I take some of the sharpening factors as well as the prowess. A member of the U.S. Senate spoke in general about transport matters. I refer to the previous answers I have given in the material. Now for the fourth time, I intend to try to thank you for this fine discussion and the members of the council for participating in it. I get it at the highest. President I am now safe to do so. Of course, I continue to declare myself ready to talk to the council whenever it comes to the issues under this department and to touch the budget, and I will probably get involved in it at later levels. I wish you would. The budget of the benefit team in her difficult litigation order, but ask her in the longest law to look forward, now not to talk about the issues that have been on the top of it because it's obvious that we need to make a contribution there. I reiterate what I said before: this will not be a project that will be done at least two years old, it is a long-term project that we will be doing, and we cannot quite explain how it will end.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u64	A respectable president. We're here to discuss the part of the budget about the foreign service. Foreign Services has the responsibility to protect Iceland's interests in foreign areas as well as to the services of Icelanders and Icelandic companies in foreign lands. Despite changes in technology and frequency, the basic theme of foreign service is the same but perhaps other methods. In the changed world, there are many opportunities to work for the better of land and nation. Foreign service will continue to contribute to taking advantage of opportunities and to further the interests of Icelanders abroad. Fewer nations are the nature of a matter, in general, more narrowly than the larger in terms of government, including foreign service. More important, then, to set priorities for small funds and to show a business consulting section. In recent years, the Ministry of State has been making progress, which has done better service for less money. Following the collapse of the banking system in 2008, the Icelandic government had to save money. Thus, government funds were severely impaired. Earlier this year, in their report on business and the activities of an emissary office, the Government's review pointed out that their cost of operating was reduced by 30% in 2007/2013, taking into account the development of gangs and prices. And the economy continued after that. This has certainly affected the ability of foreign services to further the interests of Iceland abroad. So I rejoice now that there is a chance for us to resume building work, for ahead are exciting opportunities and uncertainty times for Icelandic interests. Of course, we take our step carefully to the earth, for it is vital that we continue to show financial support. That policy of the government is reflected in much of this financial bill. Considering the total increase in government funds, it is somewhat misleading because the bill is expected to transport 793 billion. K. Because of the defense of the State Department to the State Department, there is no actual increase in donations on this number, but the provision of a warrant. This is to ensure transparency, i.e. ... thattheauthority of the Ministry responsible for the seminary, i.e. State Department. National Guard, on the other hand, and the State Marshal will continue to carry out the project. In addition, the government decided to add 213 million. K. In the case of the seminary, a high priority has been given to the United States of NATO to increase their contributions to the joint defenses of the Community. We will restore air space monitoring in the early world and support, among other things, in Iceland's CAP, in increasing numbers of civil experts under the signs of NATO, and in support of the United Nations campaign on women, peace, and security. One is introduced in the bill, and it is opening up a office of the archives by an e - mail office in the country. In the first place, the work station was the disposal of documents that would otherwise have been handled by staff in a small office that has suffered severe cuts in recent years. So it can rather concentrate on Iceland's interests. With new technology and paper - free collections, some projects can be carried out for emissaries, in effect, anywhere. We're headed for more filing services for future emissary offices. In this way, we can arrange for a delivery office at the same time as we create jobs in the country. We now see an opportunity to re-open a regular committee in Strasbourg, which was closed up in the ministry following the collapse of the bank. In Strasbourg, an important human rights job is held at the Council of Europe, looking for Icelanders to find them in their own rights. Iceland has always put great emphasis on human rights, so Iceland is a long time in the hands of one Member of the European Court of Human Rights, who does not have a permanent representative located in Strasbourg. However, we continue to show counsel and carry out this assignment at a minimum cost. We also plan to work more closely on Iceland's interests within the EEA contract and to reimburse the most opportunities for interest in the EICs. Development teamwork is one of the cornerstones of Iceland's foreign policy. In the wake of the currency crisis, Iceland's donations were dragged together. In our efforts to restore the state's funds, this government has been designed to maintain an equal proportion of progress towards the development of national income. To this end the progress will increase by over 450 million. K. ... nowbetweenyearandday. We stress the importance of continuing to develop efficient development cooperation, making Iceland's donations most useful to the needy. The unity of energy introduced by the bill on changes in developing cooperation laws is part of it. Then we'll increase the proportion again in the future, at least we'll assume that. In the near future, I will propose a new proposal to the Council on Developmental Policy. I believe this budget is the beginning of further expansion of foreign services, since it is important for every sovereign state to have a powerful tool to care for its interests in the world. Whether it is international law and agreement, business, civil service, humanitarian or evolutionary support, knowledge and ability are important. The bill indicates that the device that has today to protect these interests will be enhanced.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u65	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for an excellent report for services and funds for the Ministry. If you would conclude from a talk the highest. A minister would be the highest. A minister is very focused on rebuilding the Ministry, and this is especially so by increasing the number of embassies and by adding collections. These are the new projects. Of course, what I miss in a case of the highest order. A minister is concerned about the way he has fought for them and has brought money to the fore, such as the north. It didn't happen in the highest court. Minister. I'm sorry, but I'm sometimes a little nervous about what I think this government doesn't care about them because there's a lot of publicity. I, however, thank the Minister for his good and uninhabited testimony that in the period of the government of 2007/2013, a major measure of care was taken, even for the financial collapse. V.E.G. The minister here noted that according to the report, which I have not read, but was curious to hear from the highest. Ministers, the cost of emissaries and the head office would meet by 30% at the time, but this is now the time to celebrate. A minister, therefore, that it is time to reverse that trend. I don't know if there's any reason to celebrate with him in that subject, I have to say exactly as it is. With the embassy in Strasbourg, I won't stand it. But it was not just the savings it was shut down; it was thought that it could be cared for in another way. It's the development issues that I'm going to discuss primarily here. I'm, like, the highest. Minister knows, with bleeding sores in the heart over the highest. A government has gone against that suit. V.E.G. In 2011 a minister approved his vote on a special program designed to further the contributions for development cooperation. V.E.G. A minister did so on the basis of Iceland's economic growth programme, as well as the future. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon did and has stood up on point and stick. If we'd done it as high as possible. A minister agreed that we would give 4.7 billion more in development cooperation. We are the richest nation in the world or among them. V.E.G. A minister has changed his mind, yet he proposed a matter of Congress last year, which included the non-supervised strategy, we would now have to provide 0.23% of land production for development. But the bill we have here is only 0.21%. The difference is 500 million, and that makes no difference. The DAC (OECD) nation contributes on average to 0.30. For example, if we did the same thing, we would be doing 2 billion more, and it would be enough to teach as many schoolchildren in Africa to read as it is in Iceland in schools that covered the classrooms with teaching material as there are not over 100 hundred kids in a class. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's what matters. We should do something, especially in times when we are doing so well.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u66	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the talk and the good understanding that I find in the senator regarding assignments and the role of foreign service. You're right about what you're doing. A senator here would like to see an increase in development cooperation more than the case. That doesn't make it any more than 500 million. K. to add to our developing forces. This is because the income of the state and national income are higher and is far more successful. Of course, I hope there's still a vision that we can add in the coming years, raise the percentage as far as possible. A senator correctly mentions. Of course, I think it must be our goal to achieve within a relatively short period of time the average OECD countries have at 0.30. However, we are still setting priorities for the money we have. I believe, however, that over the years, we should be able to improve in developing, or developing, as well as in the schedule I mentioned, that I will hopefully move later in the fall, the tone will be given to this government that will be involved in voluntary donations in the coming years. However, I would like to state immediately that I do not see that the increase we will see will be in the rhythm adopted here probably 2013 or when it was when the then government announced a very rapid rise in this group of languages. I think it's more realistic to increase it progressively and set that goal first to reach the average OECD and then to reach the UN target of 0.7%. But I share the opinion with the senator that this is a very important group of subjects. We are to give more to him, for we truly are a rich nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u67	Mr. President. Well, maybe it's too much to say at the top. Minister to speak of the policy established by the previous government. Certainly, that government and I put up with it a certain course, but it was not approved at the Council. General, motioning to the State Department at the highest level. The minister sat, offered it, gave it in and wanted more this year, for example, than I, so the number I was referring to earlier was making the highest motion. Minister then on the Foreign Affairs Committee. V.E.G. Many times, a minister showed that his heart is beating a hot and powerful heart, and he is following when he has issues to his mind. I'm not questioning the highest. Minister would like to see more in this party than what I miss is at the top. A minister uses his prowess and positions to fight for the case. I feel that it is even more compelled to do so in our time when it is clear that Iceland has come up from waves, all the programs that laid the foundation of the first proposal, to the highest level. Ministers and other members of Parliament, have stood up. I think it's a little sad at the top. A minister should, in effect, be offered. In the first year, he puts forth another course, and he does not even achieve it. Wait, who does the council need to talk to? Who Will Make the Decisions? It's not the highest. Minister, after all, the right thing I had in mind last year, is that it would be opposition. The senator and chairman of the budget board, Vigdís Hauksdóttir? This is money, which I believe, we have a moral obligation to give up. The difference between what's at the highest. A minister brought in last year and the percentage today--what could he do? That is the value of a whole hospital in Africa, the hospital we delivered in 2012, is exactly what is missing in view of the minister's promise last year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u68	A respectable president. Once again, I thank you. A senator for the speech. You're right. A senator noted that the person listed here was in the Foreign Affairs Committee when a previous plan was adopted. As confirmed by Congress papers, including in committee views, reminds me, I made a specific advance of their release. But it does not change the opinion of the senator that we have to improve when it comes to developing help. We have both seen firsthand how important the little money that is being given on these issues is in the field. It's doing a very good job, so I think we really argue that there's going to be a lot of improvement, but it's actually going a little slower than it was supposed to be. Evolution is very important to many today, natural, and world - wide distress. Surely, then, we will need to examine ourselves, the Icelanders and the Icelandic government, and now this budget about where and how we can better meet the needs that everywhere we face.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u69	Madam President. I just want to move on in a similar direction, i.e. with a developing cohesion agency. The budget bill says that there is a proposal for a special 26 billion. K. reduction of donations for development in accordance with aims for maintenance of budgets. At the same time that we are going to reduce our donations for development, it is also stated in the bill that Iceland is temporarily spending 1.2 billion on security and protection. Some, however, think it is enough, but there is an increase, a considerable increase in the number of defenses, and an increase in contributions to them by 213 billion. K. This is the priority I'll read out of the budget bill. Even at the highest. Secretary of State says that he considers development to be one of the cornerstones of Icelandic foreign policy, that's not what I read out of this financial bill, but it seems to me to the highest heart. The minister prefers extra defense contributions, for example, to increase money marked by the ear - to - ear space guard of NATO troops here on the country by 75 million. K. Perhaps it would be nice to recall that after the military left in the fall of 2006, air cover was in place and that the country, in effect, made a range of training for the NATO pilots who wanted to come here, even being paid for them. So now it's time to increase and add to the air cover, though, in my opinion, it has no real defence purpose. I'd like to ask the highest. In view of the latest news that could be read on RUV's web yesterday, regarding the alleged interest of the U.S. Army, which will responsibly take place in the country: Does the increasing activity here in the air space department help make it easier for them to return? Is there a relationship? Besides, I'd like to ask about the highest position. Minister: Does he feel that such priorities are not just to blow back into the Cold War by putting the money in NATO instead of strengthening poor people around the world? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u70	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his excellent speech. It is proper to think that out of 13 billion of the total financial resources in foreign affairs, there are 6.4 billion for development, in evolutionary classes. Because of growing national income, about 500 million are going. K. More to that in the coming year according to the budget as they look today. Sadly, though, when it comes to these matters, we are submerged by most of our reference countries. Hv. A senator asks if the U.S. Army is being retreated in Cheflavík. Since 2006, NATO and the Americans have always had a position in Chefavík, they are not giving anything new, nothing new to happen there. However, there is an interest in the United States to see if it is needed on that side, to have more frequent equipment and tools, or to be present in Keflavík. It's not our initiative. The amount of money you have, 213 million. K., for an increase in the defense team, mainly the money used for civilian projects is to send people into NATO to do civilian work, to strengthen the reception of air space patrols, which, as it were, most of the world's population. That's nearly 800 million. K. who are moved from the State Department to the State Department for defensive projects. It's not new money, it's just a transfer of money, and then it's in accordance with national and state police contracts that they go to their institutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u71	V.E.G. President. Even though we are putting money into the developing business, this does not change the fact that there are goals on how to sustain the budget while contributing to the defense. V.E.G. One minister points out that there is a transfer of money from the State Department to the State Department and that it goes on at home, but I wonder: Is there not much more reason to, instead of putting this money into the State Department, they will be used for what really matters, such as keeping the watch orders out of the tickets, but not making it a bargain with military exercise and other things? V.E.G. A minister admitted that the budget bill was also expected to increase the number of civil experts under the mark of NATO. In fact, it suggests that there is a special demand for expertise in Iceland, such as in public defences, equality, and safety at sea. Clearly, this is civilian work, not military. I agree with the highest. A minister of that, but I'd like to ask him, "Wouldn't it have been more reasonable for us Icelanders as an armyless nation, and it would be a better use of energy and money, not working on such projects within the arms of a military alliance? Has the minister considered further use of these funds to care for similar or comparable tasks in the field to the members of the international organizations, such as the United Nations?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u72	A respectable president. We provide considerable funds to cooperate with international institutions as well. A senator mentioned here, and I want to thank the senator for the afternoon speech. We're also putting it, as it were in my case earlier and presented in the bill, a civilian project by NATO. It's our contribution. We don't have any weapons and tools we're doing, like any other country, it's our contribution to NATO. 21 million of these 213, for example, are being assigned to a assignment in Ukraine because of putting aside the proposal of the Safety Council No. 1325, for women, for peace and security, 75 million are estimated here to be in hostel support when they arrive here in the air cover. I disagree. A senator that the funds transferred from the State Department to the State Department for Defense should be used for something else. These funds are used, among other things, to cover the costs we have at the radar station in Cheflavík, which is not only for defense projects; also for our relationship with our friends in Norway when it comes to observing the movements of other ships and the likes of them so that these funds will be used in many ways. Our assignment in NATO is, among other things, to run this activity in Keflavík. It's a price. That money, I think, is very well worth it. Actually, we've done very well, considering the small amount of money assigned to these projects to keep Keflavík going, and there I'm going to thank Iceland's National Sanitation Service for having done it very well. We can always talk about money going to this place, not the other, but in the ratio, having 6.4 billion in evolution, having over 1 billion on a defensive project, there's something that explains itself. [[The president calls.]] But I agree that we should expand our development projects, but we don't have to take it off there.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u73	V.E.G. President. Unlike the speaker mentioned here, a question was raised to the highest level. Secretary of State wanted me to welcome more money for security and protection. I think the events that take place around the world, including in our immediate vicinity, will underscore the need for our more intensive participation in the cooperation of Western countries in the area of security and protection both in the field of NATO and in the same way through two-way cooperation with the United States. I wanted to say that I believe that it is necessary for us to spend money in this way, and I don't think we can avoid it in the light of how things have changed in a few of the losses in those areas. I am referring both to the increase in civil unrest associated with the civil war in the Middle East and North Africa, but to the events that have occurred in Eastern Europe and are linked to the involvement of Russia in Ukraine's affairs. Of course, more military structures on the part of the Russians have been identified, both through massive military training in the Baltic Sea and the North, the construction of military man activity and military bases on the part of the Russians in the north and other ways that make us more involved in supporting our activities in this area but not in reducing it. I agree with the policy presented in the budget bill on the part of the government in this regard. I also wanted to mention another aspect that I strongly support in the suggestions presented in the budget. It's an old acquaintance, that's the discussion of our advanced office in Brussels. We have in recent years more than once, and more than twice here in this room discussed the importance of promoting the interest management of Iceland in relation to the EEA Convention, increasing our chances of monitoring legislation on the European Union and preparing and helping to affect land through the EEA Convention. Among the things that we need to do in connection with this is to strengthen the Brussels office with the goal that we have a better chance of caring for Iceland's interests in terms of the legislation in place so that we are not facing what a great deal later in the process.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u74	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for a very good cooperation on the Foreign Affairs Committee. Of course, with regard to the defense, it is obvious that we have certain responsibilities when it comes to security and protection. We're members of the NATO team and we have a two-sided defense agreement from 1951 with the United States. These responsibilities must be met, and that is what we are, of course, are doing. There's a change of world environment, it's clear. We're not going to spend any part of this conversation and what we'll see here at home. We have increased traffic around Iceland, whether at sea or in the air, and we react as we do today about it. When it comes to strengthening our presence or our embassy in Brussels, this is of utmost importance, for great interest is underneath, i.e. that we can constantly observe and be early in our journeys and transliterate the ideas and suggestions that come from the European Union. It is very important for us in the future to be able to strengthen our embassy and offices, these are the exports of Iceland when it comes to protecting foreign interests. It is very important that we be prepared for this and have tools, tools, and men to deal with the projects that arise. I believe that the number of projects in the coming years will not diminish but will somehow change and thus increase in weight and variety.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u75	Mr. President. In this context, it is certainly true that there are many years'policy of promoting our participation in the EEA activities. It can be attributed to at least seven, eight years in time to a willingness to improve our work practices in connection with the EEA agreement so that we can live up to our commitments according to the contract, while also taking advantage of the opportunities of the contract to influence the legislation that will later be part of the EEA contract and consequently committed to Iceland. During the past two years and actually longer, before my time in that committee, we have been given much attention to these matters. It has been an effort on both the National Affairs Committee and, in fact, on the other committees of the Parliament, to get information on legislation in the preparation and case of the European Union in cooperation with the EFTA countries, the EEA, in early stages, and to try some way to influence the policy of the legislation, of course, on the basis of Iceland's interests. However, we face the fact that our administrative system, including our foreign service, is few in comparison with what goes and happens in other countries. It has been in Brussels that the Norwegian embassy, who performs comparable jobs, is at least five times larger than that in Iceland, so that there is limited potential for human influence in this relationship. [[The president calls.]] I think that the change here, although it's not much, it's not a giant step, it's an effort to improve our chances of interest management in this field.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u76	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his speech. The EEA Convention is our side, it can be said that, into one of the world's largest markets when it comes to counting people and relating to them. So it is very important that we be made as best of that group and that we stand at the same time a protection for the interests that really matter to us in all that cooperation. Therefore, it is very important that our operations in Brussels are strong, active, and that we can follow more closely. We do well to cooperate with Norwegians and Liechtenstein when it comes to the internal markets, when it comes to EES projects, but we still have to make a considerable contribution on our part so that we can be at the point where we can say that this is acceptable to us. We're not there today. The EEA contract, as I said before, is our key to this market and it's important that it fankers well.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u77	A respectable president. I wanted to ask the highest. Minister for recession in the main office. I don't quite remember the numbers, but there was a lot of contraction, or a cut, we can say, in the main office, and now it's being added. Is it really enough? I'm just thinking about work loads and all the work assignments this Ministry is doing. If I recall correctly, the finance of the Ministry has been kept relatively well in hand, but I've heard over the years that there's a lot of pressure in this department. What is the minister's attitude toward it? I was going to ask about evolution, but I'm going to the highest. A minister gave the answer very well. paritaprevir Acoustics, Skarphéðinsson's son. In terms of the translation center, I made it a subject of the Committee opinion of the budget before last year's budget debate how little vision I felt in the fact that contributions to the translation center were severely cut down, which made it a piled up of EEA directives that we couldn't insert. Last year's growth was up again, and I think it's more successful that it's policy, even though it's only five years old. I'm glad that I'm getting better at things, and especially if people in the country are allowed to do those jobs. I think it's a much tasteful and tasteful approach... than the move of the Fish Room... which was a sleazy way of moving jobs abroad. I think it's a good thing to do. V.E.G. A minister has actually answered something else, but I wanted to see that we raised contributions to development, especially now that we are better off. If I remember correctly, I answered the highest. So a minister would see this happening slowly, but he would imagine that we would raise the contributions over the next few years, as it will be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u78	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his speech. It is true that I said that I wanted to see the growth of evolutionary contributions progressively, or slowly, to make sure that it happened. I allow myself to hope that within not too long time, without necessarily specifying it, we will achieve an average OECD of 0.3%. Of course, the goal still remains to meet the United Nations standards of 0.7%, however, that is further into the future. As I said, we put today 6.4 billion in evolution. There is a considerable amount of money, but there is still great need. With regard to the main office it should be adding 18.2 billion. K. The Senator asks if there is enough to be done. The officers of the State Department are under tremendous pressure. As mentioned earlier, very much has been cut down and even more. Of course, this was done at the time to save currency and other things, for our business is the nature of the matter, according to the extent of foreign currency. It is good to be able to report that the Ministry of State is extremely well run, is carefully kept in charge of funds, and to remember that the chairman of the legal committee specifically mentioned in some of the places how well this Ministry has done when it comes to business. However, we do not shrink back from continuing to rolling over every cent. That's 18.2 billion. K. Increase is not great, but it really helps. As I have said before, we would have to be able to make more adjustments in order to get the strength to which we had failed in caring for the interests we should take care of. The good staff of the Ministry has worked for 24 hours in order not to allow them to suffer for a lack of financial resources. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u79	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I'd like to call on page two later, so I'd like to ask a question. 305 called Human Beings and Emergency Help. As shown in the case of the highest. To this day, the secretary of the local state is assuming that there will be a need for additional funding in various cases involving foreigners and relief supplies for the refugee problem and so on. This shocks me as something that has a direct bearing on these issues, this team, humanitarian business, and emergency aid, which only goes up from year to year. But it can't be seen. I'm asking the highest. Minister if he can see, like the highest. Minister of the state, assuming that there is a greater need for financial support on this team, may even have to be expected in the budget for the 2nd Environment. I know there's been some things that have happened since this bill was finished and even since it's been printed. I'm going around this team, but they might be able to turn more people straight to the refugee problem we are looking at today. I'm asking if there's any other team we can expect a minister to ask for additional documents.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u80	A respectable president. Once again, I thank the senator for his talk. When the budget is set, the Parliament's document will be printed and agreed on by specific criteria. In turn, these conditions may change clearly in regard to this point. These are the financial resources that are set out to care for refugees. I assume that this team will change over the next few weeks to the Senate because of the current work that we are about to review, how much we can do about the hosting of refugees and the like. We will need money at home to care for those who come here, but of course, we need to increase the funds we have for the field refugees, in refugee camps, as we have put much emphasis on international institutions, through UN institutions. Yes, I suppose this team will make quite a change, for it is truly a business of the government to add to the threat of refugees. It's under the Minister of the Interior, and I'm not here to answer for that office, but, of course, it's also necessary to add to those taking refuge and other matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u81	President. It is very positive that this Ministerial Committee was set up and realized that something in this budget will change based on the findings of the Committee; I understand that some kind of operation will be planned over the next few days. I don't know if it's the highest. A minister has the authority to present that strategy in advance, but if he can, I call it. Now, much has been discussed about the affairs of inmates and refugees, and that is a group of subjects that, of course, are very important to me. But there's another group of paintings that are just as important to me as it is to one of the reasons people often have to flee their homes, and I'm talking about climate and environment. This December, a climate conference will be held, which many say will become mankind's most important convention. I'm sorry there's not much discussion in the budget bill, I don't see the cost, it's pretty hard to read through these budgets, it's not exemplary in general. I'd like to ask the minister if we are to expect our serious participation in this important conference, and if there is some follow-up involved. Now we're doing the budget, and a lot of things are going to end up in the budget. I ask if there are any promises that we need to follow, e.g. of greater international cooperation, this series of articles. I noticed that contributions to the Arctic Council are reduced, but other institutions are added, and I know of some agreements and other products requiring increased funds, e.g. Like OECD and WTO. But I wanted to ask the minister, in connection with the lack of comment on all these international agreements and commitments that we are involved, and often the issue and discussion of them for other matters here at the council, whether he would not be prepared to use it as a matter of greater importance within the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u82	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech and the questions. Yes, I agree. A senator's request that foreign affairs be met with more discussions and importance within the council. Since the senator here specifically mentions international agreements and the like, I'm just asking if there's any reason for us to sit over it and pack up some kind of document and go over it to a foreign legal committee, where we're going over these contracts, whatever they mean, etc. It is important for all to be informed of our commitments. It's a lot of contracts, and I have to admit that it took me a long time to stop hearing new shortcuts at some contracts we're in. That's just the way it is, let's try to cross it. With the climate issue, it's not too late. A senator says this is a very important matter. This is one of the biggest issues that we will face in the months that follow. We have spoken very firmly that when we arrive in Paris in December, we have done so almost everywhere we come. Recently, I was in Alaska at a meeting where we specifically mentioned it. We've decided to take part in this bullet called, or vaccination with Norwegians and the European Union, where this group commits to reduce emissions by 40% before the 2030 period, if I recall correctly. Each of us will be exactly in this, of course not in the way. This may require an increase in cost, but we do not know it yet. It's only added to the climate in this bill regarding the State Department, about 8 billion. Yeah, something like that. Other departments, of course, are linked to this as well, to the Ministry of Environment, to the Ministry of Employment and Development, and to the expected more. So we are keenly aware that this is where we need to do our part, and we need, of course, to follow our approach. Iceland has come a long way to use what it can use to level pollution and emissions and such, but we need to be quite imaginative to find ways to handle responsibility, we can do that in transportation, ships, etc. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We just need to get on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u83	President. So I rejoice if there is a special meeting to review international cooperation and the contracts we are involved in in the Foreign Affairs Committee. I hope that when the State Department meets again, it will be done; at least I'll hold that ball up there and challenge it to the top. Minister to do the same. With regard to the environment and the cooperation we have been in connection with that matter, it is now very little to discuss on the foreign committee. It's almost considered a matter of the Environment Ministry alone. I wondered, " Is it not necessary for a meeting point, in the same way as has been done with the formation of a Minister, who hopefully will be a positive result of the crisis that exists in the case of Syrian refugees today? ' I believe that there is a need for a meeting ground so that preparation for this conference is nice and that some serious discussion will be done on members of the council, at the council, and in the community. I'd like to ask the minister if he checked on what it's like among other nations we compare ourselves with, if there's any preparation, for example. started in Norway or in other countries that share in this cooperation with us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u84	A respectable president. I thank a senator for his speech. If I understood the senator correctly, she was wondering if there was any preparation in Norway and in the European Union for this meeting in December - with us. [[No, with us.]] Yes, we're looking for ways, what we can do when it comes to climate change, where we can fill up this 40%, or what our objects will be in 40%. These things are being negotiated for the moment, both for the total number to come out, in terms of what you intend to do, etc. But I've pointed out in my speeches, when it comes to how we're going to finance the climate change struggle, how we're going to finance, for example, the level of renewable energy, etc., that every day, imagine, are given oil strength and coal for 14.5 billion dollars. There's 10 million dollars going every minute, in strength to these people. There is no need to think for a long time what would happen if we took just a fraction of it into the fight against the climate. We have stressed the sea, and we have stressed the development of greenhouses in our recent and otherwise talk by the United Nations organization. There's a search for Iceland when it comes to certain matters, including Because we have four projects under the heads of the United Nations University. I'm just going to let me tell you about the fact that among other things, we were asked for an employee to be within the command of the so - called desert agreement, where there is a war against desert destruction, because we have so much to offer. We will, of course, consider what we can do. As a result, we are already involved in many things and are asked to participate in various forms of cooperation. [[The president calls.]] I'm pretty optimistic about December to be a good month when it comes to climates, which include larger countries and peoples who have to say things that are even more important than what we have to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u85	President. I'd really like to be happy that there's more money available in foreign service now than I've ever been. As shown in the case of the highest. A minister of his own has been more concerned with the ministry in recent years than with others, and I'm not sure that all the currency is to blame. I think it's also something to blame for the fact that a lot of people who are financing in this country or conducting it here at the council don't understand the importance of foreign affairs and international cooperation. I must say that better people are better off living because I think the Minister himself has a far better understanding of this today than he may have had two or three years ago. I'm glad you're here. The minister was going to give special attention to the agreement with the EEA, and then it became clear that we have never been worse able to fulfill what needs to be done. I'd like to ask the minister if he thinks we're doing something better in it now and if we're going to be able to work with it in shameless ways. I'd like to ask the minister: What is he going to get for those 32 million? 32 million ain't much money, and 32 million ain't much money in Brussels, that I know, I lived there for a long time. It would be interesting to know what it is. Then there is one question right at the end: Where is the collection of documents?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u86	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. If it's the big question where the archives should be, we're in good shape. As shown in the bill, we'd like to take this job out to the country in order to lighten the offices that have been doing this and the same way to create jobs. As mentioned in the bill's text, reminds me, there are some suggestions that have been cited for the so - called northwest committee and the like where there is a request for support in that region, so I expect this to be in those areas somewhere. However, this has not been a formal decision. Thank you. A senator for the word on foreign service. That's right. A senator well knows how important it is that we have a powerful foreign service. It's certainly been cut down a lot. Yeah, yeah. Senator, I've gained a better understanding of foreign service than I may have had two, three, four years ago. The best thing to do is to live in that material, I think. This does not change, however, because I had certain feelings and opinions about how foreign service should work, and she is, of course, working that way today. However, where we are headed for foreign affairs is a different matter. We won't always agree on who the policy is to be when it comes to foreign affairs, but I think the big picture is very much in agreement. I thank you again. A senator for the leadership of working here national security policy, which hopefully ends this fall. We are truly improving when it comes to meeting the EEA deal. It's going a little slower than we planned, quite clearly, but better men are better off living there, like when a minister gets more understanding of his group of paint. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u87	Mr. President. I was going to just come up here once, but I had to come back. What is it that the Minister, or Ministry, is going to get for those 32 million who are going to be protected by Brussels? What should be done? How many people are there? What are we going to get for these 32 million?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u88	A respectable president. I thank the senator again. I'm sorry I forgot to answer that question. My hopes are that we can multiply the experts in Brussels for this money. I realize it's a little small money, and it's just a question of how many they work for, but it also matters how they'll be implemented, whether we send out experts from Iceland, or if we hire people elsewhere, etc. You're right next door. A senator said that it takes quite a lot to have experts in Brussels or anywhere else in our embassy, so this is not a lot of money when you look into it. Of course, I would have liked to see this figure three times, even four times higher, in order to immediately fulfill the need I believe is in Brussels because of our interests. It is important that we have experts from other extremes to protect the interests of those under it. Sadly, we do not have experts in all aspects of Brussels today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u89	Madam President. I thank you for this opportunity to speak to the highest level. Secretary of state. These are the issues of evolutionary cooperation that I especially want to make up for such topics as those often in the previous conversation with the highest level of conversation. Minister. It is sad how far we Icelanders are behind our neighbors in these matters, i.e. To achieve the objectives that have been agreed on at the United Nations scene to bring contributions to development cooperation to 0.7% of GDP. We see more European nations achieving these goals, especially perhaps because world conditions will call for more to be done by the more successful nations of this world. It is enough to include such issues as those discussed earlier, such as climate change, as well as the conflicts we face. The earlier we take more progressive steps toward this goal, the better. I'd like to ask the highest. Specially on this bill here, a minister is expected to receive 0.21% of the stakement of national income, which is the remainder of the 2015 budget. V.E.G. Minister has proposed, but it could not be completed, a proposal for the interpretation plan for Iceland's international development team in 2016-2019. It suggests that the ratio will certainly not be 0.7% and 0.23%, respectively. The objective in the non-recognised proposal is 0.23% of GDP, while the objective we see here in the 2016 bill is 0.21%. People may appear to be small, but like the highest. Ministers know, and we who are here are very much about this money. I'd like to ask the highest. Each minister, whether or not he will propose a program for international development cooperation now at this council, which assumes a lower proportion in 2016 and whether we are expected to reduce the ambition of international development cooperation. I'd like to take this opportunity here at the end, and I'd say I'm the best. Secretary of these matters very much. I think the situation we see today, and many have made it a subject for today, for refugees, and for very heavy places around the world, that we are going to contribute even more money to our developing fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u90	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his excellent speech and questions. You're right about what you're doing. A senator says that when it comes to financing evolution, we are the submers of most of our opposing nations or neighbors. The situation today is that some of these countries are simply cutting down because of the economic situation in many parts of Europe. Although these countries are cutting down, they're still far beyond Iceland when it comes to this. I reiterate what I said earlier that we put today around 6.4 billion dollars. in development aid. That's about half the financial resources the State Department is involved in these funding. It doesn't change that it is, as I said before, relatively little compared with other countries. It's the same thing since the previous year, that's right. The motion extended until spring was 0.23%, and so is the case. Of course, it would have been very good if that suggestion had been done before we went to these budgets, but unfortunately it was not achieved. This would have strengthened us in the discussion that lies ahead of us regarding the budget. I have strong hopes that this may change over the council. There are a few reasons why I hope so. I feel that there is a greater understanding now than it was a year ago among members of Congress that needs to be developed. The urgency of the need is seen with their own eyes. It is also clear that if we react, as we are going to do, the refugee problem that we see today, we will have to raise this team, for a considerable amount of money will pass through there. I think we have a similar opinion, me and him. Senator, when it's time. Of course, we will continue to fight to get more money in there. Sadly, though, this point, which contains a considerable amount of money, could not be excluded from the savings and cuts, no matter what we call what we had to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u91	Madam President. Yeah, it's my attention when I'm at the top. One minister said that he would have liked his proposal to have been accepted, that she had strengthened him in the fight for money. Of course there's a fight for money, I understand that. It's always like that in the realms. I get it so much. If so, a minister would not have had enough understanding at the highest level. A government when it came to dividing money. These goals were likely approved by the government, the proposal of the Supreme Court. A minister would not have been submitted during the summer unless she had been previously approved by the government. I understand it then, so they decided to run away from the signs in the government, and they didn't want to keep the big words they'd probably said before. I understand this in such a way that men have run away from their previous goals, since the proposal had been offered only by the government. Of course I'm on top of it. A minister of it, if there are any hopes, to increase contributions to this seminary during the handling of budgets here at the council. There's room. People watch the news, and the causes of the refugee problem need to be discussed, how we can attack the problem by improving the cost of developing cooperation, and how we can make good use of it. I believe Iceland's contributions to development have so far been well followed, they've been evaluated as if we've been allowed to get to know each other. State Department. I hope that when the budget is approved it will be much higher and it will be at least as the highest. A minister suggested this summer. I'd like to finally ask the highest. Minister: Will he once again submit this proposal for the international development team of Iceland at the autumn Parliament? Will we be able to accept it here by Christmas so that we can even accept ambitious goals that will bring us in before we settle it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u92	A respectable president. I want to reiterate what I said before. Of course, it would have been a strength to distribute money to work on a next year's financial bill to have agreed to the Council for such a plan, to see every man. There is no escape from signs, although money may otherwise be organized into the budget. The focus is on welfare, we see it, it's the health system, it's the housing, it's the quality package, the big thing that's put on the budget. Yet, the question is true. A senator that there's room for change, and I hope something will happen in it. Yeah, I'm planning on developing a plan this fall. I hope we make it, hopefully I'll be able to put it down in the fall. Of course, it would be best for her to be ready for New Year's, but it depends just on when I'm going to get my way out and if there is a time. At any rate, it moves to the Senate. But I don't trust myself to tell exactly what the figures are going to be in that plan, but they'll at least be so that we expect an increase year from year to year in developing cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u93	A respectable president. First, I would like to thank you for this discussion that has been very helpful and interesting to my court and thank the minister of foreign affairs for his historical background. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir and the former head of the State Department, Birgir Aarmann's Ármannsson, who is pleased to know that more emphasis is placed on defense and security issues in the budget bill. I think it's a very good ending, considering the situation in the world and some of the richest duties that every community or state has toward its citizens are to protect and contribute to the security of its citizens. I'm also glad that flats are found by using what we have in our area, the hardware at the Cheflavík that has been naturally laid down, but which can be used to further security around Iceland and in cooperation with the rest of the NATO countries. In this connection again, I would like to remind you that all of these issues are very connected, and there are the huge changes that are occurring just north of us. Then it comes to mind the importance of setting up an international search and rescue center, and we Icelanders calm down to all years because it is simply an extremely good location for such a center now as we are seeing that traffic is going to be increasing around the north. I'd like to thank the Minister very much for his participation in environmental discussions. Now these issues are going to overlap greatly between the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of State, and I can see in the future that this is going to happen even further. I'm gonna ask the secretary what he can see in that relationship.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u94	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his good speech and questions. It's true that our security and defenses are very important to us. We are, and we want to remain a nation without war, but we want to cooperate with others when it comes to that. There's certainly a way to use the equipment, let's say property and other things in Chefavík to build up, among other things, a search and rescue center. There are also strong infrastructures practically all over the country to participate in such activities. That task is a matter of course. The head of the State Department is now working on a report and report on that matter and producing it in the autumn months, I don't know exactly when, and then we're going to take the next steps. It is of interest to our neighbors and allies to see what comes out of our analysis, what is acceptable in it. The location of Iceland when it comes to searching and saving is very important. We know this, it's all North Atlantic in fact, and then we reach out to the North Sea, and this North Sea all the same thing when it comes to, for example, the possibility that a passenger ship might be in danger. All of this matters, cooperation with Dani is a lot today, etc. We need to draw this up, and that's what we're doing today. With regard to the environment, it is absolutely true that there is a sharp overlap, like so many other issues when it comes to foreign service and such. We have a very good cooperation and consultation between us, the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Employment and Development, as well. Of course, we'll continue our cooperation. That's where it counts that everyone is in the same boat when the row is in the same direction. We are indeed doing this, and of course the Ministry of Justice carries enormous responsibility when it comes to this professional situation, but the Ministry of State comes to this point in negotiations, negotiations, and the like.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u95	A respectable president. I'd like to turn aside the number, i.e. Iceland's donations for development. I have publicly declared that I am not content with our involvement in this matter. I believe that we Icelanders as one of the world's richest nations should do better when it comes to developing cooperation, and right now, when we see the refugee stream leading to Europe from countries in North Africa and elsewhere, the argument is that there is a need to attack the problem in those countries from home to home, and that's exactly what we do by improving development cooperation. It gives us sound reasons to try to stop such a solution from occurring, as we are now watching. I know it's the highest. A foreign minister agrees with me on some of these matters, but I would like to see it in the other respects in the years so that you could happily look forward to the plan and think about it: Yes, Iceland and I are trying to straighten out the economy as much as we are now going to go all the way to the next few years so that we could be happy to look forward to the plan and think about it: Yes, we Icelanders are going all the way, and we're going to go all the way to the other countries we're going to work on developing things. One last thing, I'm a little worried about these northerns, that we're not using enough money there to protect our interests. I would also like to draw attention to this and ask a minister whether he did it or shared in discussions about how major the Russians are now expanding their military development in the northern parts of that country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u96	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech and the questions. I thank the senator for the comments on development cooperation, and I agree that we are submarines there, but as I have considered before, there is a reason for this. I will make a suggestion hopefully in the fall, which aims for us to take certain steps toward achieving the goal set by the United Nations, but the first step that I know is to try to achieve the average OECD. I think it's wise to do this with a certain step, not to get too strong and try to get them together to get them numbers. The northern regions are very important, there is nothing to be given when they arrive. There's a lot at stake whether it's the melting of the ice and its effects, the acidification of the ocean or other climate change, etc., all of this is important and is extremely important to Icelanders. As a result, in one way or another we will continue to place great emphasis on the cooperation that exists there. It's complicated all this cooperation that comes from the north. There are a lot of people involved. We will still try to secure our interests in the best way we can in time. But, of course, as mentioned earlier, we would like to have more room for the North or other work we are doing in our small Ministry of State than with good employees.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u97	A respectable president. The 2016 budget contains the total budget of the Environment and Resource Ministry for the year around 13.6 billion dollars. The extra income is 10.5 billion. Of these, 4.8 billion can be found. Collected by markets, the differences financed by direct government contributions. In the bill, environmental and resource costs increase by 78.5 billion. K. between years of fasting prices or about 0.8%. Taking into account the impact of global pay and prices change, expenses increase by 399.2 million. K. by 4%. It is estimated that maintenance measures implemented by the Ministry in the bill reduces expenses of 0.5% of the Ministry's budget in 2015. The budget range has been set for individual projects and will now be identified as the main ones. The kits have been added to 68.5 billion. K. in activities related to nature protection as well as monitoring. Among other things, there is an increasing monitoring of key elements in Icelandic nature, but an agreement was reached at the Council last spring for the provision of a bill for a change in nature protection at this council by implementation on November 15 of the next. It is most important to ensure that environmental and cultural assets are not affected by the transport of tourists. Emphasis is now put on the design of national and administrative programmes in peace-installed areas. They deal with the need for protection and land use measures, such as the availability of tourists in areas, strategies, and construction of services workers. This linking and contributing to further protection of the natural environment in nonviolent areas is also urgent to increase the budget for land protection at a Lake Earth park and to see that it is done in this bill. Then we'll have a bill on the construction of infrastructure for the protection of natural and cultural memory back in the next few days. It was, in effect, achieved by the Environment and Transport Committee at the last Parliament. According to the bill, the project management is preparing a structure program so that funds will be used effectively and priorities should be based on assessments of the whole country and in national parts where projects will be priorized and their implementation will be developed more fully. Then, the first steps have been taken to restore deforestation and land healing, helping us to protect the environment and meet climate challenges, recovery of land quality, building up and building a new resource. This is 50 million. K. to a wide range of projects that will be carried out directly in addition to current activities. In addition, a decision-making programme of 2014◯2017 also provides aims for promoting forestisation with emphasis on wood production, carbon binding, increased land quality, better habitat conditions, and sectoral development. It is the responsibility of all of us to cope with the acidification of the sea and has to be in the highest rank among the countries of the world in the fight for clean water. Therefore, recruitment of tasks related to the affairs of the sea will be enhanced. The Environment and Resource Ministry accounts for 51 billion. K. ... anda permit to promote the group of litigators. Among other things, increasing funding during monitoring and long-term work are expected to validate international approved measures relating to pollution of the sea. There is a growing demand for increased environmental and safety monitoring of nature, climate and oceans. Iceland became a member of the EUETSAT, an institution of a European weather clinic two years ago, with access to satellite particles for weather forecasting and climate monitoring. As an example of information, there is food for the spread of ash from the mountains of fire, sea level for seawater, and ocean distribution. Such information may be said to help improve the safety of the growing stream of tourists to the country. Finally, I would like to mention that by 2015, the world's turning point is a global year due to international climate policy. The Ministry of Environment is responsible for the implementation of the United Nations Climate Convention and the shape of climate Action Programmes on the behalf of the government of the United States. The Ministry is actively involved in the analysis of Iceland's costs and options to reduce emissions to achieve the 2030 emissions targets.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u98	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Environment Minister on the head trip to the 2016 financial bill, which targets the Environment Ministry. There are two things I would like to ask a minister; on the one hand, the peace reports. Now, according to a frame plan, we have a wide range of protection areas and areas that need to be declared on but extremely small additional funds are inserted into it. I ask the minister: Does she feel the need for more funding so that we can follow the agreements we are here for protection at the General Assembly? However, it is greenhouse gas emissions. We agreed here at the General Action Programme to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. A minister mentioned in his case the growth of forestry and land healing. This is positive, but it is not a procedure to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if we're going to follow this operation plan, and I have to admit I didn't see it referred to in the financial bill. I'm asking, " Isn't she apt to be funded? '
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u99	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. In terms of peace, we've studied them here several times. Of course, more money is offered, but of course it can be done better in many other ways. I would have chosen to get more money, and I see if there's anything you can do about it between discussions of budgets, but I'm pretty comfortable with what's being done. We've stressed the increase of the rangers, as I could in my speech, and then we've also been making reservations and have been hired to do them better. In terms of greenhouse gases and the plan of action, we certainly take into account our work plan on climate change. Although it may not be mentioned specifically in the budget, it is under the climate that is being done on the contrary. I heard the highest. Ministers of foreign affairs do well to cover the fine work being done in this regard. But there's a lot of things people are offering, I'm just saying, for the sake of the time, it's about increasing a lot of eco-friendly energy on the automobile fleet and also on the seaside.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u100	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Environment Minister answers. I'm sorry that the government's strategy for reducing greenhouse gas emissions is not specifically mentioned and that good - looking funds are not put in place on that project. This is the greatest challenge of today's political affairs. We are running out of time to reduce the damage that global climate change will bring to earth's inhabitants and other life forms in the coming years and decades, and therefore governments will have to come in in a much more decisive way. You're right to the highest. The minister of foreign affairs reviewed these matters, but he is, of course, only in these international relationships, that is the action here at home which must be put much more powdered. With regard to the peace profile, we, who are here for the protection of Icelandic nature, will help out with the highest degree. Minister to get additional funding for them. For a long time, money's been missing into the seminary. It has long been drawn to important areas, as well as to which it appears to be an unsolved political debate, such as in the case of Germany and such. Peace can begin. We have enough data, although we need to keep working on a plan. But more is needed than money in the plan; there is also a need for money in the peace - telling operation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u101	A respectable president. In the past, I was able to make sure that everyone would ask for more money on everything and that a set of priorities will always be needed. But I can assure the senator that there is a full weight of work on climate issues in the Ministry and between recruitment. We feel that there is a matter that concerns the whole world, and there is a subject that we can make a great contribution to, as well as to the situation. The Ministry of finance is a professor's position. She'll be transferred to climate now. These are all large amounts of money, but these positions are being funded in many areas, and financial resources also come from other problems. But the management programmes specifically put 18 million in place. K. A little extra.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u102	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you a few questions to the highest level. Environment and resource minister. First, I would like to ask as much as that. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingadóttir on the subject of peace. Now it's shown in the budget bill, but not under the top section. The Environment and Resource Minister, that funding for the Energy Agency for a new system, but I don't see any special earmarked capitals for the protection of the Environment Department, either in the EEA or in the Ministry itself, seems to be planned with earmarked capitals to follow specifically the Council's decision for specific peace reports on the basis of the framework. It's not part of the financial bill, and that's why I'm worried. It has been observed in the highest range. Ministers that more money should be placed in terms of peace in general. I want to pray to the highest. Ministers to review how the Ministry and/or the EEA plan to prioritize the information about peace projects on the board, i.e. On the other hand, in terms of peace descriptions based on the framework under which this has led to and on peaceful declarations based on a current nature protection programme, but most not least a long approved peace description in the Red Sea, which has been exposed to losses. What's their situation? We have the highest priority. Ministers at a number of times during the last council to make the matter peaceful. I heard no better than them, but the minister was going to give a handsome tour of the current budget bill. I have to say, it's a little more relaxed than I had hoped to see. The inadequacy of terms of peace is completely different whether it is the Ministry itself, the Minister or the Environment Agency. I still want to impress the minister. Second, I'd like to ask because it was so uncomfortable and odd this morning when this discussion began and we in the opposition had to call attention to the fact of the highest order. The prime minister refused to meet with the council for his part in the budget bill, which specifically attracts cultural, national, and other factors. There is reason for special attention to the Þingalva National Park. We're both sitting here, me and the highest. Minister, I'm glad it's up to the Þingalla and I'm happy to know that it's expected to expand the project. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers, whether the government has specifically reviewed the treatment that individual national parks receive in the budget where the Tingval National Park is in particular favored condition, while the Waterland Park is uncivilized.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u103	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his inquiry. I'll start where it ended. This is not to say that a park is completely unsettled by a lake park. The budget bill adds to the park's oversight by increasing groundkeepers, so I'll call it an example. In terms of peace descriptions and on the basis of this frame, I say both in terms of protection as well as in the practical use of it, there is a project management with its professional groups and work hard. I wait for their conclusions not only in terms of energy efficiency but also in protection, and I present neither until I receive something from this great committee as the former Environment Minister and the driving force. A senator with the inquiry set up. I can tell you that I have re-enforced the ministry's work to review terms of peace in Þjórður. It is also called at the back of the mountain, working on a broader description of peace there. It is not as if various concerns are not being considered. Then I'd like to point out that the institutions of the Environment and Resource Ministry came at 534 million. K. in 58 projects in some of the government's extra funding on spring days.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u104	A respectable president. I may not have talked clearly here. I wasn't asking about the current frame plan, i.e. Frame plan 3. I understand the highest. Ministers need to wait for the conclusion of frame 3 which is expected to be in accordance with the Minister's proposal to come to the Office of the Generals under the protection and use laws, what we call in the everyday speech of the Framework Act. I'm asking about peace statements on the basis of framework 2 adopted at the General Assembly in January 2013. I'm asking about the peaceful, respectable President, to whom the Minister shall see to take place on the basis of an agreed 2013 frame program based on the General Act. That's what I'm asking you about. I would like to step in first, because of the highest. A minister here will discuss increases in agriculture, and I'd like to ask if the minister feels that it is sufficient for the defence to be done because we know that in many parts of the country, the defense has not been sufficient, and in many parts of the country we have had areas that have lived in, but not enough, control and monitoring. I would like to ask the minister if she believes that we are fully equipped to handle this properly in 2016 and if that is clear enough in the bill. Finally, I would like to ask you about the Viste business, which is a project that has been going on since 2009. I worked out on the budget bill and in the text about public shopping, under the Ministry of finance, that there is no discussion of environmental issues. It does not comment on the value of life - style, nor does it comment solely on the environmental interests of public shopping. I wanted to ask the highest. Ministers to the post on the EEA project and the cooperation of the Environment and Resource Ministry with the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, in light of the project.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u105	A respectable president. As for the public shopping, I'll get information as soon as possible. I don't have any answers about them. I agree with the senator that after sitting, even though it is not long, there is an even greater understanding of the complexity of the environment and how much can help. It's probably just that you're trying to get better information on the case that I have, unfortunately, not available right now. What I've been told to hear, though, has given me a positive attitude in terms of protection and I believe it in a much better view than before. Many people have been happy with the additional ones they have received this year, so I think that is a good thing to do. In terms of peace, it is true, and we have been able to deal with it before in this hall that there is not enough to be done and we can do anything. The focus has at present been placed on protection and management plans, and thus to shape the future and policy in the environmental environment, but better if possible. There are about or over 100 peace-installed territories that the EEA has checked out.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u106	A respectable president. The environment is becoming one of our most important problems, both economic and political. As a result of climate change on earth, over the next few decades these matters will be in total focus and will be very common in virtually every area we know and work for the community today. I'd like to mention two things, since I think Iceland might be in total position to be in the category. There's another thing about transport energy exchange, but I know that the current industrial and commercial minister is working on a strategy adopted at the General Assembly, to remind me of 2011, about transport energy exchange. That means that we would let ourselves use fossil fuels and do our part by taking up solely sustainable, eco-friendly energy to drive our transport and would be more likely to look for electricity, despite all the advantages in these materials being considered. There are tremendous opportunities for us Icelanders not only to contribute but also, as I would like to call it, to place in the balance accounts that all nations will be asked to place something on to prevent us from destroying ourselves as living organisms and humans on this earth by not walking around our environment as we should. The other thing I wanted to mention in this relationship is the acidification of the sea. I was very happy to hear that. The secretary of the environment is certainly with that group on his table. It is during the birth of a synonym that I am and others making a special effort to study the effects of carbon dioxide on the acidification of the sea and that Iceland takes the lead in that relationship, in this large climate context, on the international level. [[The president calls.]] I might like to hear a few words from the highest. Minister on what her Ministry is doing in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u107	A respectable president. Thank you. A controversy for good questions and for sharing with me, which is unexpected in this council hall, the importance of the environment, and for the very nature of this group of subjects on a global level. More often, that's what we thought about here. I sometimes feel like Icelanders, and then generally, but not just in this room, don't realize how vast the environment is, how many things they have to do with human life, and how well we Icelanders can do, and we need to do it. In terms of the energy situation, I was unable to say in my speech that we need to set such goals as generating 5% of automobile fleets in an effort to counteract the use of fossil fuels. But it is equally important when it comes to our fleet. As in many areas, there is an enormous growth and innovation in which there is hope, in green shipping technology, which has been established, and as I said about technology. It might be fun to see the future so that, for example, we could finish the electronic development of a fishing factory, etc. try to reduce this. I completely share with the senator that the sea is one of the most important things we have, so we need to be on the road to good association, as well as policy makers in all areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u108	A respectable president. I welcome the highest words. Environment Minister. If he has not known that he has a spokesman and an ally in the environment, he is, at least, here and he intends to act, for he is a member of the Council of Environment and Transport. There are important issues that are related to us in Iceland or in the small context, which are still large, and there are new nature protection laws to be used for years and to work on the infrastructure network called where we must naturally resist the fact that our country, which is becoming so immensely popular among tourists, will be submerged and crushed to the point of view. These are very important issues facing the committee, and I really hope that they will enjoy a broad and solidarity among members of the committee. I want to use this opportunity because I know that each scale on the scales matters about the climate. I truly agree with the minister that it is going to be a big deal and is now a big deal and that it will reflect its political life in Iceland in more recent years and decades. I have as well as others in the construction of a conjugal proposal that covers the government's commission to appoint a team to act on an action program to cope with the acidification of the sea in the north. This is a very important thing in the large climate context, and especially for us Icelanders to fetch our major resources into the sea.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u109	A respectable president. Thank you again. It's good to have your support. You're right next door. A senator says there are a huge number of important issues now available to the Environment and Management Board, which come from the Environment and Resource Ministry. It was agreed that we would try to complete the environmental protection bill. It went through the government this morning to get it to the council as soon as possible. Then I will attend a committee meeting on Monday morning to review the Ministry case. Apart from nature's protection, there is much to learn about organization, extramarital development, and building a frame to improve the infrastructure, as the senator mentioned, which is extremely important to map how we can react and map our cultural and natural cultures. However, national planning is also discussed, so extramaritalism identifies some issues of the Ministry. In the springtime, I will present a bill about the ocean's organization and the coasts, which are also new, so that you can look at the whole matter. I think it's very good. A senator will consider the affairs of the sea, but he would like to say that they are being processed; scholars and committees are active within the Ministry of Environment and State Department and elsewhere. I look forward to seeing the suggestions of the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u110	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on to a few things. I think it's a good thing that they're adding to the agricultural and deforestation. Sometimes it's forgotten how important land transplants are in Iceland, there's a lot of wanton land. I've sometimes wondered how shy we are to deal with overexploitation of several areas in the country, which are examples of sheep being used in a very delicate area, and how we can contribute to sustainable agriculture. The sheep have a lot of rights in Iceland, they're somehow part of the country, and they even get to run around the highways where they don't quite belong. Is there something to consider if the Kingdom can come to if it needs to be hedged? How is that possible? I find a twin in a single word a lot of land - healing work, but then I look with the blind eye at an overexperience or we can say the unwise use of land that I feel is taking place in some places. I'd also like to ask about the Paris climate conference. I didn't see the address of the Environment Ministry on the budget bill, but I have to admit that I've been going through it on dog field. What is the introduction of the Environment Ministry to the climate conference, which I think we all agree is an extremely important meeting? It's important that Iceland has a medium of what we've done, or is this a case that's a matter of the custody of the State Department? How does that say? I think I'll do it in my first speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u111	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for good inquiries. With regard to over-exploitability, sustainableness is a completely password today. When I first took up this office, I said that knowledge and association are my guides. Prosperity of natural processes applies everywhere, i.e. how we walk in the country, how the country is being used, and how tourists walk, and in fact, food waste, is my common interests as well as the senator's, in fact, a major environmental concern. I feel like there's a new view of sustainable application and forestry and healing in the last few months. At the head meeting of the Iceland Forest Society, held at the end of August, one of the main lectures was how to link it together. That's what I think is absolutely possible, for example. If I only take the forest for, when trees are at a certain height, it may even improve the use of the forest field. It is happening in many parts of the earth, and farmers are very conscious; there are no people who know their land better than they do. A person has increased healing, but he may also have a large herd of sheep and may consider the connection between these two, so I view it as the very best of matters. I don't think we're turning the blind eye to that stuff. I've been laughing about it a little bit, just last night, people were talking to me about being in the country and talking about how people were coming to sheep streets in some places, not by sheep, but by people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u112	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister responds and can agree with what she said here. So it's a question of whether the highest. Ministers have time to come into the climate conference only. I also wanted to mention one thing as a boy. paritaprevir Svavarsdóttir spoke of, i.e. Eco-friendly purchases, it seems very important that the State precedes them with a good example. I think the first course was made when Friðleifsdóttir Fräuleind was environmental minister. At any rate, I remember reading a policy on eco-friendly purchases of those who were unable to enforce. A minister can set a specific course, but it is the institutions that buy into which it needs to be carried out. I feel that it should take a lot of weight, using sonar-market products and Witnesses from all places where possible and where this applies to services and products. In some cases, it may cost a person not to be justified, but a roof could be created there. I think that's very important. For the counsellors and the government, I've only talked about the car fleet that I think could be environmental, i.e. all the Ministers' cars' fleet. As soon as people are in a position to buy cars for millions, you can choose a very nice electrical vehicle. They are still expensive, and I understand that buying them can be a challenge, but it saves on fuel or reduces fuel costs because it becomes very small or nobody. I don't understand, however, why the Ministers cars aren't all electric cars or metal cars or cars that use renewable energy in some way. It's the big environment, reducing fossil fuels incineration.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u113	A respectable president. Thank you. I see I have a sponsor to get a new electrical vehicle. I've already answered this about the eco-friendly purchases, and I'm really going to study it over the next few days, how that matters. In terms of eco-friendly shopping, I think the natural point is to try to reduce the amount of plastic use. We've talked a lot about the sea, and we know what plastic does to those swimming in the sea, both birds and fish, as it is now becoming evident. Regarding the truck fleet, so that I can only get to it again, there is a rich understanding of Iceland's government to try to find ways to pay off the cost of electric cars. I think it'll be clear to us, even now on autumn days, what we can do about it. For Paris, this has been the case for all this year and longer. It's the custody of the Environment and Resource Ministry. The office manager will cover the work, however being done in cooperation with other departments, as I have established. On behalf of the government of the United States, we are building a climate action program. We are on the same boat with the European Union, and we set the goal of reducing emissions by 40% by 2030. We are in the European Union and Norway.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u114	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking you for a very good and up-to-date discussion on this budget bill. I think I've been through the main thing, but there's one thing that hasn't been discussed, and it's mostly. A environmental minister may be trying to contribute to the educational material for tourists. For one thing, it is reported that some tourists were ripping up moss on the roof of the House for isolation in their tents. It seems necessary for tourists to have access to a brochure or something that explains how sensitive our nature is. Now I've been through the environmental section of the budget bill and I'd like to ask the highest. A minister whether it is being spent on something to instruct the people who come to the country, in various languages, when taken to the airport and elsewhere so that they can be explained that the country cannot be walked as hard as it has been practiced or that it is used elsewhere.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u115	A respectable president. Thank you for the senator's excellent inquiries. Truly, our natural nature is fragile, the period of growth is short, and so it does not have as much time to renew itself as it does in many other lands. It is more fragile than in many other places. Education is always good, but I'd like to say here that I'm not the travel minister who sets up lines about tourism or what it's supposed to be. I have faith in the inside bill that will be submitted to the Council in the days ahead, hopefully I'll recommend it then. There will be a map of our main areas and what needs to be done to prevent or control the natural world. We want to set a good example of handling these matters. So I have big faith that if the Allied agrees with this bill, then the task manager can be hired immediately and started to evaluate the areas and plan exactly what needs to be done so that nature does not stumble.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u116	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for an introductory answer. However, I would like to ask, " Is this not also about the protection of the environment and the protection of nature?'And whether this is not for a environmental minister, where nature damage is involved in some cases that can be prevented by simple training. It doesn't have to cost much money, we're talking about brochures that can be translated where we explain what moss is. Mosi, for example, is not something that everyone knows. You could do something like that that that shouldn't cost you very much. Is the Environment Minister interested in doing such a thing?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u117	A respectable president. Truly, I am interested in teaching. I happen to be chairman of the Constitution Committee. We have set out a course and made a lot of money in the last two years to produce more educational cards. This year we made a special effort to educate tourists. I know that it has been done beyond the world, such as in a Lakeland park. Of course it is and may always be done better. I think, as the senator knows, one of the most important things is that the tourists who come to the country, as well as the Icelanders, may do our best. We certainly have areas of compassion, which have been made toward national parks because of our special status.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u118	V.E.G. President. I want a little mixed up in the discussion, not for long, though. Thank you very much. Minister for reporting expenses at his office. I want to celebrate especially three projects, they link job and environment. For one thing, as others have mentioned here in sales today, the promotion of forestry and land healing. I think that's a lot of benefit because we're going to promote this factor. Second, I'd like to say that I'm especially glad that the Ministers stress that we protect our country from further travel efforts; he puts 16 million. K. The project, and I'm especially glad to hear it. The discussion earlier showed that this 16 million and the previous one were very effective. I encourage the Minister to keep a close eye on this, whether in the years to come the need to improve the number of tourists, since it seems unlikely that we will have to add to this category. Finally, because I am very interested in the sea for many reasons, I want to draw it forward that the minister is parking here, as she said, 51 million, in addition to what was before, especially in the sea. Iceland has had most of its share of the ocean. Although travel services are now up to the side or ahead, I don't think it's possible to stress enough that we wake up and protect the ocean, watching what's going on around it, in our resource box. I will enter my second speech on one that is not mentioned in this Senate document, but only before has it been close, but it is the acidification of the sea that I think is an extremely important matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u119	A respectable president. I thank the senator for a positive subject. There's an increase in support of the environment here. Forests and land transplants are a natural factor and have been a long way around the environment. We're trying to recover after a few years of cutdown, we realize what he's saying. I just hope that we can make it up to each other. In fact, even the amount of forestry that makes up a lot of it or can produce a lot of it is a growing industry in such a way fixed beyond the binding of carbons and what it adds to climate and other things. I'd still like to say it here, because we're discussing forestry, of course, that everything should be taken care of. Because I talked about organizational matters, we also have to be a little aware of where to start deforestation and how it falls into land and environment. We must always be guided by nature. I am, for example, one of those who have coveted an excellent view of forestry, I have to admit it. With regard to the Marine Guard, yes, it can be, as we've seen before, of course, improve it. However, we are adding in two places, both to the EEA as well as to the Water Earth Garden, about 32 billion. K. The sea is focused, we perceive what needs to be better monitored, and we contribute to the growth of monitoring and research. We show that color by adding money, as the senator could about, or 51 million. K. for next year.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u120	V.E.G. President. Before I go to acidification of the sea, I'd like to mention it, because it was only mentioned in the past discussion of the climate conference that will be in Paris at the end of the year, that Iceland should be leading to this international issue. Although there will be a comprehensive policy objective, it seems to me that other figures who have previously been made aware that national monitoring and follow-up are lacking, and I believe the Icelanders can lead an international organization to follow up and monitor others to follow up on what will be determined at the Paris climate conference. I'd like to mention just the acidification of the sea. I think this is one of the most important causes for Iceland; the pH is falling more here than in most parts of the world. Without being any more wasteful or polluted more than others, it's going to make us worse. So I think we need very intensive research around the country to meet up with that information at international conventions and to report that we are worse off from this biologically than others. So there is considerable information to combat the acidification of the sea, since some continental countries may not understand how pollution affects the sea. I think that such comprehensive information about acidification is one of the key elements for Iceland to fight for internationally, to promote our opinions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u121	A respectable president. I truly agree with the senator regarding the affairs of the sea, that the Icelanders will be there on the tip, and will be able to impart their experience and knowledge to the international. That's what we've done about the Earth. Hv. A senator spoke of Paris - some of it takes so much to say that the meeting in Paris at the beginning of December is one of the most important meetings ever held, at least for decades, if not anymore. I don't know if you're supposed to take that kind of stuff in your mouth, but the nations of the world are looking to Paris. The French government is putting forth great effort to ensure that the Paris meeting is successful, has been preparing it by traveling around the world for the summer to hold conferences in many countries. We are now having a meeting with the French prime minister for the next month until Iceland. I can tell you here that the French Environment Minister came to visit this summer. I met her in our excellent place, the Senators have been here for discussion, and the minister was not only finding out our knowledge of the geologic research, and I wanted to share it with us and introduce it. She was keenly interested in geothermals in order to contribute to such energy efficiency where it would have an effect, both in France as well as in other places where the French have their hand in a bag with governments or professional living.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u122	A respectable president. The main theme of the next year's budget is that health care will be greatly increased, we provide additional funds for the development of new nurses, new Hospital projects, and the operating grounds for large hospitals and health centers in the country that have been trusted beyond what has been done in recent years. Overall, the primary line is total health costs of just less than 162 billion dollars. in 2016. There is an increase to the medical budget by 10%, i.e. 14.5 billion bucks. Of course, changes in salary and prices are included, which includes an actual increase in health during 2016, according to the current bill, of 4.4 billion U.S.A. If you look at health contributions from the 2013 budget and combine these contributions, the budgets of 2014, 2015, and 2016 have increased by more than 34 billion dollars. The actual increase in expenses, i.e. The growth in health care, during these three budget years, is just over 16.4 billion. It adds to the health care provided in 2013. That's a lot of money. The next year's budget gives the budget for setting priorities in a way that puts health care first. Health and home care contributions are greatly increased by the emphasis they have on various projects next year. I would especially like to mention the growth of family medicine experts, the growth of psychologists' places, and the increase in academic contributions in home medicine and medical care. In this way, the financial bill, as it is here, actually reflects that it is the first site in the medical system of people, and it can live up to that mark. Of course, it will take us some time to reach that goal that everyone will be perfectly pleased. I'd like to mention here that contributions to home nursing will rise by 200 million. K. We start by evening national service levels so that the level of service will be the same whether people live in the country or the capital area. There's a certain inexorable situation there. I would also like to mention that we are now in a mental - health programme and are putting in special budgets with the goal of improving health care and adding access to it, promoting multidisciplinary work by adding to the mental status of psychologists. We now have 15 psychiatrist positions in the national health care department. We've been studying a British model that works on the basis that one of the positions of psychologists should be able to serve almost 9 of you. ... aman. In order for us to achieve that, we would have to have more than 36 medical standards for psychologists in Iceland. We are setting goals now to increase the number of psychologists by eight positions on the health care unit in Iceland. I can see that next year, if the bill is doing so, we can offer psychological services within the health care system in all the country's medical districts. I would also like to mention that we are advancing our study of family medicine and health care. Each year, we have increased in the three study positions of family doctors, assuming that by next year we will have 20 status points in 2016. We are exporting their affairs to the medical institutions, so they are in charge of their own. Likewise, there is a growing number of home health experts. I'd like to mention, too, that we expect to start a building and plan for the next three nurses next year. We're raising money to the dentists of children, where we'll add two new years' walk of children who have gained the right to dental services according to a contract with Iceland's Medical Insurance. Finally, I'd like to mention the big task that I had recently been able to do, that the construction of the Land Hospital at the Ring Road has begun, is fully moving, and the design of the treatment core is in contract. We offered a building of hospital hotels last week or the preceding week, and it will begin in the autumn of a coming day. That project is well established. I look forward to having a place to speak with members of the following discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u123	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. A health minister for the review of his case party. First, I'd like to commend the highest. Minister for the determination he has shown regarding the construction of the National Hospital. It is very important that we renew our home so that we can continue with a proper hospital. It undermines health care in Iceland if the hospital cannot find adequate housing. Thank you, Minister, especially for this. Then I'm also glad that there's an increase in funding for health care. There, a minister works according to the goal of health care as the first stop. It is increasing the number of homes of family doctors and is increasing the ability to educate family doctors, as well as to get psychologists into the ministry in an increased way that enables them to work in the companies that provide better service. It's supposed to be a celebration and I'd like to start with that. Then comes the blessing of the Land Hospital, which is actually undergoing surgery of over 90 million. K. While less than 400 million are being reassigned, an assembly is cut down according to a cost - price plan. What I'm particularly concerned about the hospital is that there are about 1.5 billion in maintenance that is absolutely necessary, and it is also missing to assume that the increased pressures to the hospital are due to the changed population's age compositions and the increasing number of tourists. So I'd like to ask a minister if it's going to be the pleasure, if it doesn't have to increase money into the management base at the hospital. Then I'd like to ask about the missing ones who were quoted as director of the Land Hospital today as having at least 1.5 billion missing. We arrive at health insurance, however, where the independent expert specialists are. There's an increase of almost 1.2 billion. I'd like to ask a minister about this, if it doesn't need to reevaluate the agreements with internally functioning physicians so that it is not an open branch while the public service, which is the heart of the health system, is not able to obtain normal donations according to increasing levels.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u124	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator declares that we are working to finance the health care program on the basis of the projects that have been presented under the direction of better health care services, in 2013-2017, which I know. The head of the welfare committee knows who they are. I also thank you for the words of construction here at the Land Hospital. When we talk about cuts at the Land Hospital, it's a little big. Of course, we accept more money everywhere. As you look at and pick up funds for the hospital or hospitals yourself, there has been an actual increase in funds for the Land Hospital alone, 4.3 billion. Over two, three years. That's real growth. Well, that's when you've separated your pay change, et cetera. The actual increase in hospital life is 15.7% over the period of 2013◯2016. These are enormous sums of money, and everywhere we can make more money. I'll take notes. A senator on the expert contracts. The point, however, is that a government fund is paying down a share of patients in this service. In the course of 20103/42013, 29% of patients increased from 29% to 42%. We're paying it down now, so the share is gone from 42% down to 30%. The wealth is taking on a considerable part of the cost. This is a very important service, for visits to the experts are about 250 thousand a year. [[The president calls.]] This is a large part of Icelandic service, but I agree with the comments that have to be made to make changes in the contract or arrangement in which it is going to take place. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u125	V.E.G. President. It is positive that there were real - life increases in the hospital, for it could not have been different after an operation period of more than ten years, not just because of the collapse of the financial system and its impact on government funds, but had been a maintenance of the Land hospital throughout the 21st century. Still, more money is needed. The pressures of the hospital need to be considered to increase, otherwise the service level will decrease, the tasks the National Hospital can take on a smaller, independent business and undermine the overall medical care. 250 you've got. Visits to independent doctors are many visits, and we have many good doctors. It tells itself that we give money in the hospital without seeing changes in our service needs, but this part of the health system lives independent and always gets, we know it from the money through the times, what is missing in harmony with the need for service, and we do so with a completely different law than, for example, the Landspite. It tells us that this will leak the system so that we will eventually dig under the overall medical care. She's guilty enough in Iceland. It must be our goal to make it more efficient and to ensure that our expertise is not divided in different locations. That's why I'm so happy to hear that. The Minister is going to promote a reexamination of the contract. I want to know when we can expect it, and I reiterate my question to the question of whether he really doesn't think he needs more money in a land hospital and what he says about the 1.5 billion missing persons in maintenance.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u126	A respectable president. Regarding the funds for the hospital, and when it comes to saying that the contributions to the hospital are down, I insist that the contributions to the land hospital for business and for the ministry are not down. There's no point. The numbers are very different. It is true that the pressures have increased in the land hospital as well as in other services. How will we respond? So we meet in two ways - now by strengthening our health care and by strengthening our household care. What for? To reduce stress into special emergency departments of the Land Hospital. Similarly, we have installed certain funds to reduce and, in effect, enhance the capacity of the Land Hospital to serve better, so that our accumulation will not be as extensive as when we opened up the Hospitals. We are similarly handling certain assignments that he needs to perform by going to the waiting list. This introduction was not an exaggerating plan for working them down. It involves huge financial resources, which, of course, will help the hospital's work environment at the position in which he is now in need of some kind of priorities in relation to the current budget, while accepting problems that have been raised during this and the past years. As for the specialists, I've asked for some time after the Ministry's proposal to revise that contract. I don't know exactly where that work is, but it is clear that the key to getting a connection with this service is twofold, one on the one hand, that we have a contract with the experts for their service. It is not possible to carry this contract lightly, as it was in 20103/42013, since they had only self - merits on the ministry. On the other hand, we need to establish a better control of our health care system, which calls for people not going into the credit system in general on their own terms without being in touch with the health care itself. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u127	Madam President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Department of Health for the review of those involved in his Ministry. I would like to agree, of course, with the enormous amount of money that goes on health issues, especially the Land Hospital, but I still agree with the concerns that arose. paritaprevir Sigríður, Ingibjörg the daughter of Ingadóttir that it may not be enough. The project that I think we at the council must go to is to make sure that enough money goes to the Land Hospital. There are a few things I would like to talk about here at the highest level. Minister, including. The question that came up earlier about maintaining. Hv. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingadóttir said the need is 1.5 billion. What is the estimated maintenance this year? It's like the highest. A minister entered a new hospital in progress, but we need to have a home for this operation until a new hospital is resurrected. I think everyone agrees that money must be maintained until the new one has risen. That's why I ask: What's the plan to put in this maintenance and what's the top count? Ministers themselves that the need is greater? I couldn't find it in the bill, so I'm also asking the Minister if any more money is being expected next year because of the list of waitings that have been formed because of last year's failures. Will the Ministry assume that the operation will be restored this year? I know that the lists that have developed and the amount of time it takes to get into the necessary procedures naturally cause considerable anxiety. Finally, I welcome the emphasis. Ministers of health care, and especially rejoice that there are psychologists to enter. On the one hand, on page 12. 387 that donations should be raised to the health of the capital area, on page 30. 390 suggested that this team, the health care of the capital area, be transferred to the region, and then I ask the minister: "What really stays with the health care of the capital area?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u128	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. First, I want to take care of it with the transfer. The capital area had health care for all the family doctors throughout the country, and they are being transferred from the health care of the capital area to relevant clinics. This doesn't affect expenses. But with regard to the discussion that the Landspians will not get enough - I shall certainly be the first to celebrate the increase in money to health care in Iceland. More money can be spent everywhere, but I remind members of the Parliament that in the past three years, there has been an increase of 15.7%, the health care of the capital area 8.6%, and the health - care centers on land 7.1%. But no one is talking about it. The focus is on the land hospital, but the growth is greater, the strength is greater, and I'm not trying to downplay it, he needs to be strong. Nevertheless, I pray. When discussing health care in the country, members of the Parliament are on an equal level. As I've said many times, the focus is now on health care, number one, two and three. She has to be first because she has been waiting, and others simply have to wait. There's more money on the waiting list. I assume that request will come to the budget bill when it appears in the fall. I'll fight to get what stands out next year because it's obvious that we're not finishing the list, we're drying it up this year or the next year. [[The president calls.]] It would take two years for me to get out of this condition.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u129	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. There are some things that I better leave behind his speech, and that's good. Of course, health care is needed throughout the country. I don't think it's a question, however, that when the country is getting up after the crisis, as it is often said, the financial priorities are in the health system, into the welfare system, and, of course, the national hospital itself that serves the whole country, is our natural hospital in the capital area, and also the hospital of those living abroad, must have enough money. The coins have to be injected there so that they can run away so that they can do so well. I don't think we can just disappear out of this conversation here without getting in on the S-labelled medication. There's been a lot of discussions in the community that this situation is unacceptable and that the S-labelled medicinal products have really been called off, although there is a medical reason for referring people to these drugs. This, of course, should not be part of a health system that we want in the first category. Therefore, I would like to ask from the text and a table on page 24. 378 where it is said that there is an increase from funds except in S-marked medicinal products where more real growth is expected, however, in the table on the same page, it is only to be seen as a contraction of 0.2%. [[The president calls.]] The highest. A minister explained this to me?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u130	A respectable president. First to the last one. I put my eyes into this, too, and I asked for it. It is expected that 3% increase in the S-labelled medicinal products will be involved in the calculation of the central damage done in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which will calculate the performance of future changes that will result in the price intended to buy a certain amount of drugs. That's mainly what's going on here, not that we're reducing the purchase of drugs, not at all. It's just a lower price for them on this gang. I'm also worried about these so-called S-labelled drugs. I was in a meeting the day before yesterday in Copenhagen, with Norwegian health - care ministers, where we discussed these matters. I requested cooperation with the Norwegians and have had excellent discussions with the Norwegian health minister on these subjects. The concern of the Norwegian countries is all the same, the great stimulus of the pharmaceutical companies, the drug plants, of its production and marketing. My opinion is that in order for us to get a better grip on this situation, we'll have to do two things. First, we must change the laws on public shopping. As they are now, they prevent us from being able to cooperate with other countries. The other thing is we're getting into the exports of the Norwegian countries. I'll just give you a little example, buy me an anti-rheumatic drug. Me and the Icelanders are buying a certain species of anti-rheumatic drug for $1 billion. every year. If we'd made it to the North's last tenders, we'd have saved 700 million. That would've cost us 300 million. K. and we could have used these 700 million to pick up other medicines, etc. It is fundamental to my mind about the drugs that we can change the legal environment and come into cooperation with the North countries in this area.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u131	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. A health minister who is well aware of the issues involved in his ministry He has covered many things, both in his speech and in the answers to them. Senators here have spoken. The first thing I want to do is describe my satisfaction is to promote health care as the patient's first stop. It is vital that all services be performed. I would also like to describe the satisfaction of increasing the availability of psychiatrists by substantially increasing them in medical institutions in many parts of the country. In addition, what we see clearly is important in the budget and the proclamations at the highest level. A minister has said that it is now being spit in as far as land hospital and construction are taking place in a new hospital that is important to us, all Icelanders. In addition, it is very enjoyable to have a good look at the quality of nursing, which will undoubtedly bring great benefits to many of the older cities of the country. I'd like to ask the highest. Healthcare Ministers to the Hospital in Stykisholmi and a request received from the Western National Institutes of Health at Aranesp, these are factors that are involved in the improvement of the home and the facilities for emergency vehicles. In case of a moment. The Senate budget could now find some space in its own house, would the Minister consider it wise to look to the evidence that we could give a little evidence that this was a project we wanted to take in?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u132	A respectable president. Thank you. The speaker's speech is a joy to hear how well it highlights what is stated in the bill. That, on its own, if I should mention it specifically, is the turning point for the psychological growth in that multidisciplinary work in the medical profession. Based on the British model I mentioned earlier in my speech, we today need about 21 mental - health status values to meet the standards set out there, and we expect to meet them in two years, hopefully. We expect to add next year to eight values, as I had the chance of before. For direct inquiry as long as possible. A senator came along, about the hospital in Stykkisolmi and improvements in ambulance reception, I've been a spokesman for us to get to all of these. For example, it is obvious that both for the local community and for the State, the plans in Stykkisolmill that there would be a lot of economy, of the activities that have been there in the dough. The original projects were very expensive and expensive, something has gone over the plans that I don't quite know about. The problem is, money for the reimbursement of hundreds of millions of dollars is very limited. I'm calling it an example that the plan we're working on right now is assuming we have 300 million. K. to begin building three new nurses, where the need has been most assessed in the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u133	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. A health minister for the answers. It is true that in his speech he mentioned that the planned projects in Stykisholmi were very expensive, and now the situation has been that it can be done for less money. But you hear very well that the greatest will is at your home. He or she realizes that these are existing tasks, and we need to take care of them. A lot of 'em. The members of the Parliament will be talking about the pressures at the Land Hospital, and I realize that that that's a lot. In many parts of the city of Reykjavík, we have strong health facilities, and we have seen evidence that health institutions have to order good medical personnel and experts who could take on assignments that could even be moved from Land Hospital to the medical institutions that may be in the Kragani or in the West. Is there a basis for a discussion, or how a minister would approach the presidents of their institutions for any possibility that with some way the land hospital could be controlled and given additional work and, at the same time, improve the care facilities? I often feel that the discussion is about Land Hospital, but we have health institutions in many lands and the highest. A health minister mentioned earlier that we must examine health matters in the context of all health facilities in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u134	A respectable president. Yes, as for the possible cooperation of the Land Hospital and the so - called collar hospitals, I welcome all such plans. In fact, I had the last meeting with the Land Hospital and the presidents of the Western Institutes for the possibility of these programs. I believe that the role of the Land Hospital in the coming years will simply be strengthened by these factors, including the Akureyri Hospital for the area that can be called its area. These larger hospitals need to shoulder more responsibility for services to these areas than they have ever been. I have sensed that those who represent such services in the hospital and, in fact, in many medical institutions around the country have a keen desire to work in that spirit. There's a great deal of joy, and I hope that soon there will be some steps in that situation, and I know it, because it's going to be a certain class of measures, in the case of Westland, which will do nothing more than make better use of an investment that the state has put in this state, but it's going to be a huge improvement for the people who are waiting for a certain medical action that can be found here because of a lot of projects at the National Hospital at the Ringway or in Fos such.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u135	V.E.G. President. First, I want to thank the health minister for a clear description of this financial bill and the increase to health. There is good reason to celebrate all the increase in this group of litigators, and it is a pleasure not to promote health care and to increase the number of nonessential psychologists and nurses. What I wanted to talk to the highest. A health minister is a child issue. I sent in a spring inquiry to him regarding the diagnosis of ADHD children and related disorders. The answers I received there were rather striking because the waiting lists after diagnosis with these disorders are enormous, so long that waiting for a diagnosis is even for two years. It's not particularly serious, I think, because you don't see in the budget to add to this suit and work on the lists. In 2011, the United Nations Child - Court Board suggested to the Icelandic State that we do not take sides in this issue, that we have to be willing to cooperate in order to be part of the children's covenant. It was 2011, and now it's 2015, and nothing's happened unless things may get worse. I've got it for the truth that in the summer, the list was extended and now the children have to wait up to 16 months after diagnosis. That's why I'd like to ask the highest question. A health minister would not want to put forth great effort to add to this category. We are, in effect, discrimination between children and 2. We can't do that with the child covenant of the United Nations. We are breaking human rights by failing to care for these children. It's just that in the fast modern world, these anomalies are increasing. In recent years, anxiety and a wide range of mental disorders in children have increased dramatically, and without timely intervention, preferably in the early stages, we are reducing the quality of life of our children, and especially their families, immensely. Therefore, I find it very painful or very difficult to see that the group is not being added, since there are 162 billion who go to the clinic that is enormously rich, perhaps a drop in the sea to improve this service.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u136	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's comment on this discussion highlights a very important matter. Our will has been to do better in this area than has been done, and for one thing, we've moved money according to the small space we've had within the Ministry and are marked by a special point; I can't even remember his name, work in that subject. We are also strengthening our health care facilities on the budget as it is available, which, among other things, enables us to handle matters, and we have been trying to assist the Development and behavior center on this project. But that's right. One senator noted that the waiting lists are extending. I've heard professionals in this sector that also ask themselves how it works, and I know why it's happening. There are certain suspicions that children are also being thrown between administrative points, from school and rural communities to health care and so vice versa, and if things work that way, it's totally unacceptable to me. Thus, the information about how the increased number of people, which is behind them, is clearly, according to the professional, not sure enough to be able to say very much. But our will, to say in my short answer here, stands to do this better than has been done, and for that reason we have used the limited sources we owe in the Ministry's museums.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u137	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. The health minister for the answer. I realize he has, and I don't doubt it, a rich will to try to deal with it. For the sake of growth, it may not be good to say. In the past, kids like this were judged naughty and toils, cocks, and so forth, but now this trade has gone out. I know what a director's husband is to be a nursery teacher, and directors notice right away if children act differently than norm, which we're talking about. Immediately, arrangements are taken to help the child, but this may be difficult to deal with if waiting for one to two years after diagnosis. This is naturally extremely difficult because we know that if the child does not have a diagnosis, the school or the agency does not get funds to care for the child. I've also sent a request to the Minister of Internal Affairs for Service and Prisons, and it turns out that about 50 to 66% of the LittleReun and Iceland over the head have ADHD and mental disorders. So we can see that if we put money on it at an early stage, we'll save a lot of money. And we are not just saving money. Rather, we are improving the quality of life of these individuals, who might not have been led astray if they had been diagnosed as soon as possible. We know that one prisoner in Iceland costs the state about 10 million a year and if we could reduce the number of them by 10 it's 100 million, it's coming back soon. I challenge the health minister, I know he has a strong desire to handle the matter, so that we can meet our criteria as members of the United Nations Children's Convention and the United Nations Declaration of Rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u138	A respectable president. Thank you. Again and again, for his interest in the matter. This is extremely urgent, and I hope that what I said in my previous reply did not come to pass in such a way that we would first have to analyze the reasons for the growth before we started helping people. That's a long way from my thinking like that. We need to help people, and then we can take time to work more closely on the analysis and the like. I'll take the sharpening. The senator was very well - versed, trusting in his support in trying to straighten matters out for the better. One thing is to call attention to this and to pressure the local authorities, as well as to the services we use for this purpose. We have very talented people who work within the circle of health care but also wonderful people who often work and often even volunteer in this area of society. If there's any way we can be more supportive of it, we should. I just promise to look for ways to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u139	President. I welcome what was expressed in the minister's answer to a question from which. paritaprevir For example, Steinunn of the Þóra's Árnadóttir said that he had provided money to shorten a waiting list that came into existence because of the strike. It's necessary. I want to put my fears at ease that there are two different health systems here, one for those with money and the other for those who use the public health system that I consider to be one of the cornerstones of the welfare of the country. I'd like to ask the minister if he's ready for the fight to protect that there's not a double health system here. Looks like he's done his part by getting this money, and I'm especially glad to hear it. I also welcome the emphasis on health care. It's a long time. It's been tried, and it hasn't worked out. Now that we have money in there, and it's good, but it also needs to be kept in mind when making deals, because it plays with independent doctors and deals with them, that doctors are creating the demand for their own work themselves. It is called a moral hazard. Doctors are naturally the best, but they are not holy, and the rest of us have to face them. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask the minister if he's not ready to do that. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u140	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. I'll first answer what she came to last time. I would like to face the fact that doctors are neither better nor worse than the rest of us in society, that's just the way it is. There is always a particular temptation in society, and in my mind, no one class is more important than anyone else in our fine country. I declare it here at the moment. A senator and over the hall that I will strive to protect myself from the shallow thoughts that are contained in the Icelandic health system and have been, i.e. that we do not have a double health system in this society. It is a reality that I have no interest in facing. That's something we shouldn't be invited. We're supposed to be on guard that we won't. I've heard nothing else in discussions about such things, but much of the convergence of members of Congress on the principle that everyone should have the same access to the ministry. I thank you for the words that fell here on the short cut list. I share that opinion with you. Senator. It is fundamental to work to minimize the risks of developing in this situation and to work more closely on the list of waitings that have been collected. I see why. A senator and her talk in such a way that in general we agree on the basic needs of the Icelandic health system.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u141	A respectable president. It's going to be like this. I thank the Minister for these statements. I think they matter. It is important that this is made up of the platform and that health ministers do so. I'd like to ask the Minister another question. Sometimes I feel that people avoid talking about things that are a little difficult. I don't agree with that. We're supposed to talk about what we're worried about. I'd like to ask you about the positronic thing that the Icelandic company decided to give to the Icelandic government. I've understood it so that the trouble with this scan is that it needs to be built around it. Then I would like to ask: Is the Minister or the Ministry working with the Land Hospital to figure this out? Compared to the fact that we've been given this scan, we're not going to build it in two or three years, but we're going to be right today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u142	A respectable president. I agree that it is often better to talk things over, deal with, and express our concerns, and discuss what we believe can do in some way that we are going. In the light of meditation, why? The senator of earlier times is very obvious, since the above two health systems were discussed, that we will have to face a significant war to protect our thinking so as to avoid that reality. And if we are to be successful in resisting these changes, we need to talk to one another and to push each other to the extent possible. For the PET scan, the reality is that it must certainly be built on the device. There's no point in that. We are working with the Land Hospital to see that no one is missing on our side in connection with the wonderful gift that Icelandic genetics brought to the nation. This is fundamental. What a wonderful gift this is for all to know, and what a fine and grand witness this is! In this way, we are to accept it and do everything we can to make this work fast enough, and we will not have to be discouraged if we have to make some small money to house the device. That's what I can say right here in this hall at the highest. A respectable president of the Ministry's plans will go nowhere but that this is to be done without difficulty.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u143	A respectable president. There are so many matters in this department that I would like to ask about but to tap on a large one first, I would like to say that I find the most positive subject of the financial bill that has to do with the health care crisis. I have received only a glimpse of the better health care program that I find truly promising and strengthening home care. This is just common sense, we cannot build over all the elderly, and it takes much less that services at home and in many cases are really much better for those who do not accept the ministry. I feel like we're taking a lot of steps in the right direction, and I'm celebrating it. I feel like we have to drive this a little fast because we should have really been doing a lot of this 10, twenty years ago. Regarding health care, there is talk about the position of psychologists. I wondered, " Can I understand this so that they will be held at clinics all over the country? ' Then there's another question I think, is it not possible to use more classes? For example, I am thinking about nutritionists. I think it's very necessary and urgent to assist many and give advice on proper nutrition, and doctors are not experts in it. This could be saved in a longer time, since much of today's disease and drug use are due to life - style disorders that are directly associated with poor nutrition and immobilisation. Then it's the role of nurses. I see here that the decision has been made to set up a special school for medical nursing at the University of Akureyri, which I like very much. I can't tell if it's in the schools, I didn't see it, or if it's more ahead of time, but it would be worth saving to use nurses more. I know that in some places, nurses can prescribe birth control and other methods, scan and so forth, so not everyone needs to go to a doctor. These are all questions and opinions, but I would like to ask about the mental - health status, if they go to all the clinics, if we are taking the step of being nursed, even nutritionists, and other professions on the health care unit, and if we might see some kind of reference system in the future to direct people into the clinic. I know it can be difficult now because someone else's health care may not be a demand, but in the long run, it must be the goal of starting with the health care provider, not going directly to a specialist with the cost.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u144	A respectable president. Thank you. Her senator gives in. I believe we can't drive this thing faster than we've been doing, because of that. A senator mentioned that we had to do this long ago. I agree with that, but we have to put it all in perspective, there are so many things we would have had to do a long time ago, and we have to look at the discussion, the work, and the ability to do good things in greater context. Like what? A senator witnessed earlier, however, the members of the council complained in this discussion that there was not enough to go to the Land Hospital. I can agree with that, but at the same time, we observe that health institutions elsewhere have been getting much less than the Landskeeper and so forth. The thought of these places of psychologists is that we can within our health care system in the country's health care districts have some sort of psychological service. Today it is only in the capital area, Southland, and Southnes, with about 15 positions and, in fact, half places in the East. We expect to add eight points so that we have this service in all health care districts and at all health care institutions in the country. I've heard the discussion about nutritionists, and then I'll just say, "I'm sure the money's gonna limit us, and it'll come back later. My will certainly stands for it. As for the medical care nurse, last year we were assigned to work with the University of Akureyri, and then we had six positions in medical care at the health care of the capital. Now we'll probably add four places, to a wide range of study positions, and then they'll be in clinics outside the capital area. We are expanding our project and will, in effect, be with ten study positions on health care. Trusting in this study helps us to strengthen our health care providers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u145	A respectable president. Thank you for the best answers. Minister. It is true today that huge emphasis is placed on the Land Hospital and may not be strange when you see the budget that goes to that special point. You must, in fact, hope that a part of this is a cause of disaster, that these are many buildings, and that we will someday manage to reduce the cost and save it, because these are huge amounts of money. I feel kind of like no one's gonna get their hands on the business if I'm supposed to say exactly what it is. I wondered if a state reexamination wouldn't have to make a big withdrawal. I'm on a budget committee and I don't feel like I know enough about this business and I find it hard to get answers, because we're talking about 50 billion people. It's not a small thing. There's something else I find interesting, and it's drug and drug use, it's enormously high. V.E.G. A minister enters what I thought very positive earlier that we can reduce that expense by entering an assignment with the North countries. But we use an enormous amount of drugs in Iceland, compared with other countries. Dans are concerned about their medication, but when it comes to sleeping medication, antidepressants, and other drug classes, we use rather extensively. Some can justify this by saying that we are doing a good service, but I am worried about it. I can't tell if there's anything going on that we can't keep track of. Prescription of too much medicine may be harmful; it is not good. I wondered if we are trying to get these costs down and get the drug use down, not because we want to impair people's quality of life, but in some cases getting rid of medication may mean improving the quality of life.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u146	A respectable president. With regard to the medication, I again witnessed to the health minister of the northern countries I was attending in Copenhagen on the day of the day, the source of antibiotic resistance was one of the things that we discussed there. According to many health experts, it is one of the greatest disasters we face in the medical world. Iceland has been high in the use of antibiotics compared to the northern countries, but we are the lowest antibiotic use in animals. The food we're working on is to a great source of food. We have made some changes in our health care system to try to reduce the use of antibiotics. Vaccination of children less than five years of age in ear infection resulted in a dramatic reduction in their use of antibiotics in children. In addition, a vaccine is given for more than ear infection. Two medical problems were taken out, East and South, with a view to trying to reduce the use of antibiotics, and I am told that the result is positive. There are, therefore, many things you can do to reduce unwanted use. How far we should go in it, I'm not a judge of it, our professionals must answer to that. I have had very good cooperation with the surgeon general and the pathologist. On the other hand, we are now in the middle of work, revising both government pharmaceutical policies and the laws that I hope will be able to submit to the council at the spring council. [[The president calls.]] It affords us the opportunity to shape further and more specific rules that enable us to deal better with this issue.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u147	A respectable president. I will now explain the key proposals of the budget in terms of those lawsuits that will fall under my responsibilities as Minister of Industrial and Business. They are many and varied. These include tourism, energy, industry, large and small, innovation, design, and commercialism that may otherwise be involved. The bill suggests that some 12 billion will be spent on this series of issues. The secretary of finance has taken care of all the key elements of the bill and has clearly explained the overall vision involved in the processing of the bill, of course, that I support. I have not much to add, and will use my time to cover those lawsuits that hear under industrial and business ministers. I'd like to start with the new creation and creative articles. What a joy it is to be able to make once again a suggestion for a large increase in donations for development! This is now suggested to raise contributions to the Technical Development Fund by 975 million. K. so that the entire budget will be about 2,345 million. K. in 2016. I allow myself to state that there is great pleasure in the general business of the fund, both in companies and in those in the fund. However, we feel that there are ways to improve the quality of the fund and, in good cooperation with the fund's management, to review certain things, and to look for ways to learn more about the fund and explain its role in serving all the sectors around the country. You'll have that job in the near future. The budget is also expected to continue to receive tax relief from research and development, over 1.3 billion, 1,360 million. An 80 million. K. increase from the budget of this year. I'd also like to guess that for a short time 300 million. K. An additional reimbursement for film making will be extended to one year, with a budget of 1,137 million on the bill. K. and is consistent with what is happening in this group. I would also like to further mention the building of a design fund set up in 2014 to follow a design policy that was adopted by the previous year in 2014◯2018. Then the fund will have 45 million. K. to be set up next year. If we go over to the simple administrations, we will continue the simple issues we have been working on. I want to draw special attention to 30 million. K. budgeting to create a system that makes it easier for less partners to meet in annual accounts. The button, which the head of the government is preparing, will hopefully - I hope to hope for it - will cause the same sort of a turning point in the economy as an electronic tax returns at the same time between individuals and companies. I'd like to go over some energy issues. It has long been the struggle of many members of Congress to achieve the equations of home - building costs and the costs of distribution of electricity between rural and urban areas. As a result, contributions to house - to - house heating are now expected to increase 285 billion. K. From the budget of this year. At the same time, it is assumed that there will be an even range of emissions of electricity over the next year and that it will be 913 billion. K. in 2016, i.e. 65 million. K. higher than this year. That contribution is financed by an equation. As for the tour, I would like to begin by drawing attention to the fact that contributions for the marketing and presentation projects of Iceland are not expected throughout the year. I note that this does not change the progress of the project, and it will be published in 2016, where there is a year's delay between the budget and the project itself, but it needs to take sides with the continuation of the project in budgeting for 2017. A lot of discussions, however, have been done in the summer on tourist attractions. Over the last two years, there's 1,700 million. K. For the protection and development of tourist attractions through the tourism fund. Never has there been as much money in this group of languages as there have been more than 500 million. K. It's from the host tax. It's 1,230 million. K. has been through specific administrations of the government in 2014 and 2015. In preparing this spring financial bill, it was apparent that some 1.2 billion dollars are still remaining unmoved in the tourism fund and has not been set aside for the assigned tasks. We've been working on it in summer to map the situation and the reasons for this, and there's a number of things that are normal, while others need to explain further. As a result, we will appreciate how much money the European Commission fund of tourism can reassign to other more advanced projects. With large contributions to this class, we have shown a clear will to make great improvements and to ensure the construction of needed structures, but we clearly need to do better in our work. There is not a lack of funding that has been inhibited only in the structure, on the contrary, since well over half of the assigned tasks are still to be completed. This is what we're going to go over while the budget is in the progress of the council. [[The president calls.]] We will make proposals for additional donations if the conclusion remains on the basis of this consideration. It is clear that income that flows directly from the host's fee to the project fund will probably not be enough. It's too early to tell about it now, and that's why we'll review it better during the council treatment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u148	Madam President. I can agree with the highest. Ministers, it's a pleasure to see this vast amount of money go to the competitive fund, the Technical Development Fund, and I welcome it to the highest degree. The government saw that after bad beginnings, it cut down contributions to the funds because the increase in them in 2012 and 2013 had been in an investment plan of the former government. Since then, the government has increased in accordance with the recommendations of the Board of Research, as did the previous government, and has based on ambitious work done by the Board of Research, and that is well. Now, some of the little funds that were set up to support the creative articles in the past government, so that it is now said, again, and therefore we rejoice. I want to ask about Iceland all year. Although I realize from reading the report that the project will continue in itself next year, it has been done so many years in a row, and then you have to ask what is going on. Is the next year just to wonder if there will be any continuation in a more reasonable and objective market for Iceland? It's been watched over the winter, which I think is still a reasonable focus to balance the rhythms between summer and winter. I think it is also good to maintain good cooperation between the government and the article, so that people can have specific goals about how the country is introduced and marketed. I think a minister should explain a little more clearly to us what her attitude is about the afterlife. Is she okay with that? The tourist market fund could have a big deal, including the disaster that could still be said to reduce the financial resources of the fund by 13 million. K. This 60% of the host's fees that go in there should not even be allowed to stay, third year in a row. That's kind of sad. Second, I ask: Is there a guarantee that all funds from the fund will be overcome? Has the secretary of finance agreed that all the funds from the fund were transferred from financial year to year? This does not necessarily mean that there are two consecutive years of financial support. I don't suppose it's surprising that the ring that's been part of this case has been a bad one. May I remind you that only the two consecutive years spent on the funds have been spent on the budget? Since then, funds have been saved, so governments are responsible for this. Third, I would like to ask about other flights into the country, as shown by prime minister's statements and others on that subject. Good if there's no mention in the case, which is very trendy. But what about the money? Is it possible for earmarks to indicate the sum of money, that there will be a powerful effort to put together with the locals to open more airports into the country? [[The president calls.]] Besides, I think it's the highest. A minister who, in fact, skated over it, should give an answer to the 60 billion mark. K. The contribution to increased travel studies is canceled and what should be replaced. Is it not true that in this nation's largest currency sector, there was a desperate need for basic research and analysis and theoretical work? [[The president calls.]] Is it good to throw out the 60 million that were introduced last year in research?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u149	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for these questions. I appreciate that he is pleased with the increases we are experiencing in various groups of subjects, even though he chooses to put it into practice that we had seen ourselves. On the contrary, we wanted to do this in a way that would stop the debt collection of the state's funds first and afford what we spend in this fund. But it's good that we agree on that. About Iceland all year, I agree with that. A senator said that this has been a very successful project. It was very good when it was started at the time. I am also happy with the arrangement of working at this cent in a professional way. The reason we don't get funding for the project is that we are among other things considering partners' wishes for the continuation of the project. It has to be acknowledged that when we were finishing our present contract, we felt a sense of inadequacy in the company, and this may be explained because tourists have grown very much and they have wanted to set priorities for other people. Because of what? A senator asked me that I believe that we need to continue marketing of Iceland and that exactly what we want to have, the market of winter, the market throughout Iceland all year. We will, just as Coca Cola continues to advertise although everyone knows it, I don't think we should stop advertising Iceland. This is my will, but, of course, the viewpoints of the article itself need to be taken into consideration in this regard. [[The president calls.]] We will finish that work in time for the next year's budget. I'll be dealing with the construction fund and the aerospace for my next answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u150	Madam President. We're not in a lot of trouble when we're running out of time. That's why I chose to represent only one area of the minister's vast language, and that's the journey, and it's quite thoughtful to me. I'd like to add to the market that I don't think it's an entirely ridiculous thing to stop trying to build on some level and a more balanced policy on how we achieve general publicity in the country. There is no doubt that Inspired by Iceland, and then Iceland throughout the year put these matters on a certain channel, broader than even studying the funds that went through there, because there was a set note there, and about tourism during the winter and all the land underneath and all the rest of that stuff. I'm going to let me mention better paying tourists, that we try to arrange our land presentation and emphasis so that those coming here will give more than less of a changer, simply because we can't cope with an endless, unlimited number. Then, obviously, it is reasonable to try to reach the proportion of tourists who leave a substantial amount of value in the economy. For such reasons and many others, I don't think it's enough to stop and encourage continued progress and to try to promote a good will to continue this cooperation, of course, to discuss the cost change. In order for this to benefit us then, we need research. I ask the Minister to enter it only in his second answer. We need diagnostic work, we need research. It's way too fragile, I don't talk about it while we don't have properly travel accounts from the Habitat or they're made with years apart. This is not an acceptable situation in the nation's largest currency industry. If we look at what's being researched on various other subjects that I don't regret, it's totally absurd that our extremely important branch is so starving in this respect.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u151	A respectable president. Now I have to talk fast. First about the tests. A project for research, the Šsatellate acount, has fallen from me - which was cut off by a former government in 2009, was restored in 2013, so these studies are being carried out. For research in general, I share that opinion with him. A senator says they need to be increased. Also, the factors involved. A senator asked about a presentation earlier. I reiterate that the decision has not been made to give up the unique task. For this and for the flight and distribution of tourists, research and all these major matters, I can inform you that there has been an introduction in the development phase of all councils at the council, that we are engaged in major policy activities with the tourism Association and other agents that will be presented on either side of the month's conventions. It reveals the need for coordination and coordination, that we need to work together because tourism is such that it's all over the board, between administrative levels and between sectoral sectors. It'll be presented in the late stages. Of course, with regard to the budget, it is a serious matter when we respond and make a very clear contribution to the applications and plans set out that we will see that the project is not started, that it is not completed for various reasons. I'd like to make a special point that we'll go over it, and we're dealing with how we can improve the work done. That's where many people come in, including... Civil society planning. They need to be sure that they are on a better course. [[The president calls.]] We will make sure that our money will be built up at tourist locations, especially with regard to the Kingdom places that we are directly responsible for. [[The president calls.]] However, we do not want to put our finger into the wind and put some number in the budget. Rather, we want to prepare it in the best way possible in the conduct of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u152	A respectable president. I want to celebrate, of course, that the bill looks completely different than the first financial bill of this government in terms of technology development funds, innovation centres, and the building up of musculoskeletal knowledge in this country. It is good to see that the government has seen its face and has returned from the point of death to make these contributions at its beginning. With regard to the journey, I would like to continue with only the discussion that took place between the two. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon and minister earlier. What I think is a major concern is that we are totally messing up, creating a public setting for the fundamental work conditions of the work that the tourism is becoming. A temporary contribution is being made to travel research. If there is an article where increasing the level of knowledge is tremendously dependent on us, it is traveling. All economics indicate that the growing number of jobs there are uncomfortable in low - paying jobs and therefore need to take up an accurate level of knowledge in this article in order to increase its profits. On the one hand, of course, we have already screwed up the opportunity to pay expenses on the article and help it raise prices during this vast expansion period. Some told me on my journey through the country during these last days, where I met a number of local and professional government officials that we were making the same mistake as when we forgot to suggest how to pay access to a common resource. The same would be happening in the tourism service now, just going forward, and because the terms were completely upset and upset over the past few years, there has never been a trustworthy system of currency. And regardless of the failure to divide money from tourism funds, it is only an independent goal to pay back the article in these updrafts now and to collect money. Although the funds cannot be distributed now, they can later be done. I'd like to wonder what the overall policy is with these factors. Where will the research be placed in travel service? What economic changes will be made to identify the true scope of our tourism and its significance to us? And what about the payoff? Isn't the Minister going to bring you any prime rule for reimbursement of tourists?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u153	A respectable president. Hv. A senator is similar to the previous speaker, claiming that the government saw as a result of an increase in technology and other research funds. I'd like to reiterate what I said before. This was not because we did not believe in the strength of research and technology that this so - called investment scheme was out of the table. Rather, it was for all other reasons that the senator should be completely aware of, and it was because it was not a financial investment, as one remembers. Now that we have set up the government budget to get these matters, which I can quite agree to be good, it is, of course, our priority to improve at the end that research funds are doing a good job. Regarding the tour, I'm sorry to hear this kind of talk when it comes to claiming that we've messed up. We have a marvelous industry that makes a huge amount of money. We are in a growing process, and we are now in a very good partnership with the tourism organization to do exactly what might have happened during the last term or even the earlier election period or before that, to create a short and long term policy for tourism. We've been working these cases all over the place. We need to work better together, and we need to decide which direction we will go and how we will go. Research is subject to these tests. We need to increase them, but not just some research here and there. You see, these cases are being investigated here and there. We need to draw such research together and have tools to have perspective. For a word or two. I would like to use the opportunity to ask him, though I know that this is not the purpose of this period: should it really be as I could hear it? A senator makes a personal goal in paying back the article? I just don't agree completely. [[The president calls.]] I think it is our own goal to promote the roads and problems of tourism and to make us society and society and economic systems more successful in accepting the number of tourists with the honor we would like to show to tourists in our country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u154	A respectable president. Of course, it is an independent goal that this article allows shared access to the resources and costs of the nation's resources to secure the facilities they use. Let me reiterate the question: Is the Minister not going to bring the bill for reimbursement of tourists for building costs? It's incomprehensible to the highest degree. The minister says that further research is to be done, but the best way to do so is to drop a donation for research. Of course, I must also ask why the government is making a huge donation to Iceland throughout the year, which has been very effective and is very important for tourism in the scattered settlements and has built up a great deal of support and support for international tourism. It is true that the number of tourists is increasing, but it is important to distribute the stress and support investments in the widely distributed section. I feel that all of this is evidence that there is no overall vision of where to go. I've heard from key agents in this article that they're very surprised at these budget proposals, and I've also heard from tourists abroad that they are very at odds with the proposal to contribute to the Iceland project throughout the year. [[The point is, Which one?]] That is why I reiterate the question: Is it not to expect a bill to be paid by tourists? Has the minister just given up trying to let those who are exploiting the situation pay the cost? And how should research be done if the contribution of the State to research is to cancel the financial contribution? They need an increase in knowledge and knowledge level in this article. This is fundamental to our success in getting more money out of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u155	A respectable president. It would have been fine if it were. A senator would have listened to our verbal exchange. President here, it's not been, and I specifically stated it in my story, too, to drop a donation to Iceland for the entire year. It is financed for the next year, and we make that decision, and we have time for the 2017 budget to determine if we want to continue our work. Like I said, we're doing policy work and out of it comes a variety of suggestions, and this goes into that category. So this decision has not been made. Hv. Senator wants a bill. No, I don't intend to bring in a pay bill in the fall. We've been changing the taxation of tourism. We've improved and simplified the valuable tax system. The lower level of value taxation was increased, as it was remembered. We are reducing accessations and taking more sectors of the tourism into the cost tax system, which has an added effect on the income industry. We're going to follow the policy process that I mentioned taking this away as a matter of course. A senator speaks of a lack of vision. Yes, it lacks complete vision. Unlike what has been done before, we are making things right because we have to look at it in the big context, and that is what we are going to do. In terms of paying fees for services granted, I can agree with the senator, but it is evidence that there is a bill in both travel regulations, in all national parks and in nature protection laws to be paid for services granted. There is no need to change the law to do so, as you can see to form on the Þingles, near Gold Falls, and in the Dark Citys, where there is a fee for a toilet position, and, as you know, in the Þingvaval National Park, it is intended to do so, too, with parking lots.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u156	A respectable president. First, I'd like to commend the highest. A minister for matters that shift the house - to - power costs she entered earlier in her speech has been a great struggle over the years when electricity costs are equal between rural and urban areas and the residents living in cold areas. What I wanted to come in here just a little bit and ask the Minister about other regionalities and specifics, it's about electrical access security on the West and possible job structure on the north side of the West. The 2009 report by Landsnet has given us an excellent understanding. It says that the dependability of electricity delivery in Landsnet system is the lowest on the West. Only one transport, a west line, lies there, which consists of three lines. The lines are part of areas where weather patterns can cause disturbance and difficulties in bad weather that need to be repaired. This insecurity in electronics has a broad impact on the regional competitiveness of employment because it is considerably lower than in other parts of the country. The possibility of structural activation at the Whale River has now been examined, i.e. Inducers, and more interested persons, are involved and are more serious than they have been in years. The nearby inducers, too, have been examined, smaller inducers, and we have to guess that a combination of these can be studied between 75 and 85 megawatts. In addition to the potential structure in northern Western Europe, in the Slysavík, in the development of a paracaric plant there, we call for a council, and then both legal and executive authorities, to consider whether there is no greater force to be achieved on the north side of the West. One factor that has been discussed in this topic is the possibility of identifying a new link point in the Ísafjörður, which would result in the ability to connect these inducers to that mount point and then to dial electrical energy in the West and introduce the West to a general electrical device, but as I traced them to this point, they are not good enough. I wanted to ask the highest. Minister, because I know that it has the best interests of the scattered peoples, and we have seen it, including, we have seen it. in electronics, whether it feels that this is an important project and that in the next few years we will consider the possibility of providing funding and putting it ahead of priority, especially in view of the negative population development in the region and in view of the local tubular structure and, hence, national currency.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u157	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for this speech and to thank you. I thank him for his assistance in legalizing the subsidies because he was a loyal supporters of that case and with other members of the council that it would be done successfully. Regarding the delivery security of the West, I agree with that. A senator's insistence on making improvements is very important. That is why a committee has been working for several years, the Western Committee called under the leading Guðni of the Jóhannesson of Power, where locals, the power companies, the careers, and other persons come together. The committee has worked, I'd like to say edifice and bring quite a few compensations already. I mention a new linker in Bolungarvík and more things that have been done, but the project is certainly not finished. The committee will continue to operate, and the project that the senator mentioned in terms of the Whirlization and the link point is one of the committee's tasks. Besides, I'd like to mention that we've been looking at the electric law, especially 12, par. The power layer of the so-called system development because it is really what's the threshold there, that the system of the enterprises that would take advantage of this energy, in many cases, is insurmountable. We can see it in this area. Another example is Thors Harbor at Langanei, where a system system for the electricity of melts is quite a factor. We're looking in general terms, and I hope to make a proposal later in the winter, and it's good to know of a good sponsor for that matter at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u158	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers for these answers and emphasize the importance of putting the task first and putting it on heavy emphasis in the Ministry of Ministers. Minister. I trust it to the highest. Ministers do so as was done regarding the equations of house warming and electrical costs. I reiterate what's at stake. For the first time in years, it seems that this declines so that interested people have developed a building of the Inflation. Now there are research and funding work, and more. in progress. You've also been looking at more of the continuum transfunctioners there, so there could be quite a bit more energy in the area than humans have previously thought. In addition to the structure that humans have been considering in the case of a paracaric plant in Susavík, there is something that we should consider as a single unit. Of course, there would be a huge lift at the north side of the West, so we won't forget the companies in the region who don't grow and grow and develop because they don't have enough power to secure electricity. I am convinced that today, in this area where people in great numbers have been reduced, there are few projects that could achieve as much structure in the region as it would be if the circuiting of electrical energy in the West and this interface point as these activations would be fixed. I trust the highest. A minister, as she said earlier, to emphasize this heavy emphasis in the coming year.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u159	Mr. President. The delivery security of the electrical energy system, especially the public system, is a real hobby to me. That is why the adjustment I made to the legislation that we received at the council last winter, in terms of the changes to the implementation of a system plan, and the contingency proposal for air lines and cables, were key issues so that this system could be reformed because it has been drawn up for over many years. Various system problems have led to a lot of time - consuming projects. Now that we've fixed it. I share the concerns of the Landsnet, which has in its drawing that a system plan has expressed concern that if the power of the electricity system is not controlled - and it has been specifically named - then we're going to get into a lot of trouble within not so long. This is one of the priorities that we will use during our next losses and take care of these matters, both with the Landsnet and the power company. Then, the other end of the spit is that we need to get things started so that we can get the initiative started. We need to focus on ridding the knot on a frame plan by taking it up a matter and moving in a better direction. All of this hangs together. The objective is to ensure the scattered habitat. We have taken a big step in this regard with the house warming and the balance of distribution costs, and when it is done, we will continue with the project. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u160	A respectable president. I just wanted to ask you a little bit about a tourist attraction fund. I see that money is being placed in that fund, and I have also read in the news at the highest level. A minister has been pointing out that, in fact, not necessarily missing funds, but had not been carefully organized enough to be started, or that would be at any given moment. I wanted to ask myself, " Could it not affect the fact that this body of sheep has rocked wonders? ' If I recall correctly, 400 million, or nearly 400 million, were placed in 2013. Then there was quite a cut both 2014 and 2015, and then it came into the budget. I wondered, " Won't there be any effect on those in this structure if there's no trust in anything? ' It would be good if you were in travel service to know maybe five or ten years in advance that this fund will always be there and you can pick it up. I'm thinking that maybe it wasn't successful how it was cut down rapidly and then added as we've discussed here, me and the highest. Minister. I agree with what has been said about contributions for research in travel services, which are too low, and I send a written inquiry to the highest level. Minister of the last winter, for which I asked for a break-in of the budget that goes into research on industry and fishing roads and on the other hand, agriculture and tourism. Tourism is behind us, these are small coins that are being studied in this important profession. I don't like it if it reduces 60 million. K. a donation that I remember most of that year went to Bifrost and the Research Centre for Tourism. I think we need research for travel services and asks for the highest level. A minister in it and perhaps also in travel accounts that the Habitat is to care for but would like to be funded to that end because this is a very important project. Now, under prime minister, the Habitat is not available, so I have not been able to ask him that question. I know the highest. Minister of the situation, if it's not a big national agreement that the Hausp has these travel accounts and that's the case today? I knew there was supposed to be a small department and if it didn't get funding for it last year or this year, if a minister knows the point, I would appreciate the answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u161	A respectable president. First with regard to travel accounts, which is the word I remembered only in English earlier and I apologize for that, we've been working them since 2013. It's according to my Ministry's contract with the Hausp Office, so they're loved now. I still don't think the Haggis have it in their house, but I'll buy a contractor to take care of it. These accounts are of great importance, and they were called forth almost the first day from my arrival in the Ministry because they were cut off during the last term. As early as 2013, we improved. The Haguem's proposal, which is under the prime minister, as the senator mentioned, is also a suggestion - now I can't remember the amount, which is a financial proposal for traveling studies. So that's what they're adding. I totally agree with that. That's one of them -- although I'm not informing you here about the results in policy development - which will be stressed. To establish a future policy in this article, like other sectors, we need reliable data. We'll make it right. Regarding the collapse of the budget, she was temporary, included a year ago in the budget board. It didn't fit in our frame for this time, but it's something we're very aware of and we're working on with the article finding a future policy that we can start working on and calling for financial support. Preservation in the construction fund. I can totally say that, of course, that's what makes it work. That was one of the things the natural pass was supposed to ensure, the predictable financing of this fund for the long time. For one reason that money does not go out, it is that people have been attending tasks that they may not have necessarily attended to the end. [[The president calls.]] Then the money, the counter, or whatever, ends up and that's what we're finding out. [[The president calls.]] Of course, there is a key element in this context of view.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u162	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. I'd like to join the Minister. There was this talk from the market, that we were posting money in Iceland. I'm kind of there that we've come to the point where we should rather put a coin to welcome the people who come here. If we want it to stay longer, the goal must be to make it feel good. I often feel that people in the market are looking too far instead of thinking, " A friend who is happy comes back and tells everyone about it. ' If you can't get into a bathroom in Iceland, because we don't even have the potential to make sure people get in the bathroom or get the basic services that have been much in the media, for example. In the summer, I think we should put the money in it rather than necessarily continue in some massier market. Although it may have to be there completely, I think that the marketing that we receive is the films that are recorded in the country, not necessarily some campaigns made by advertising agencies, although they can certainly serve their purpose. I just wanted to say that. I had a question about the green economy. It's a good thing to see that innovation or research fund is being added, but perhaps it's like the tourist economy, where the budget of 2014 was decreased, and then it just increased again. Then you wonder: " Is it not a better gypsy and similar amounts of money, instead of drawing so much together in the 2014 surgery bill? This can affect the article. I'm glad they're adding now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u163	A respectable president. To reiterate what has been discussed in this discussion, the decision to withdraw from Iceland has not been made all year long. That's the next year's savings. We will make a budget for the 2017 budget, so if it is decided to continue, that timeline will not be broken. That's what we need to keep looking at. I mentioned that there is a problem with the job or with that company. Then you wonder, if the companies themselves don't consider it a reason to spend money on it, the State's authority to be doing it, or can we do it somewhere else? The other side of the coin is that in the market we're marketing with the emphasis we want to increase. Therefore, it will be a key factor in policy development and the outcomes of it. We're going to get into action with this. We've been marketing Iceland all year. It's been going well. Now we're launching more into Iceland all year long, and the major campaign for Iceland is now in the country. I think it's necessary, and hopefully you'll have good results. Because of the talk, if you can't get into a bathroom in Iceland, I'd also like to encourage us to talk about that matter, and that doesn't really apply. Senator, careful. Tourists can go to the bathroom in Iceland. In many lands, exemplary positions have been built. I felt that this summer's discussion was only extreme because it was as if nothing had been done and everything was in cold charcoal. I went to many different parts of the summer, took a personal look at this in times of great stress, and there are many ways to improve, but this is not the case in a way that you would expect to avoid the discussion. The innovation and technology fund. What a joy it is to be able to add to it! I reiterate that it wasn't malicious or that people didn't believe in the funds that the investment plans so called were out of control at the time. Rather, we wanted to make sure that we made money. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's what we've done now, and it's safe for the next few years.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u164	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with this last discussion of the travel service. Yes, it may well be that there may not always be room service or other services, but I may feel that there have been some strong statements about this and take it quite far because something has been done. Tourism is a great deal of goods, and tourism companies themselves are going to sell their trips. They know exactly what to do about services for the people they come into their territory. There must also be a little trust in the tourism provider and this market itself for the project. But it was an outcast. I wanted to ask more questions about this marketing because, of course, people were a little shocked to see the wording in the budget bill, which directly says is about a market application in Icelandic tourism to be proposed to bring down 200 million. K. a temporary donation made for two years. It is to explain that it will be out the next year, but it would be reasonable to assume that this is the end of the case, i.e. This is over and will not be continued. I'm glad to hear a minister say that it's not because I agree that these market funds are very successful and that they are taking advantage of them in order to reach our goals. We used them first to try to stop the development of the Eyjafjörður from following the Eyjafjörður eruptions and get the heads of tourists across the country. Then, when we arrived, we could use this money to try to increase the number of tourists who came out of rush hour, i.e. ... afterthe summertime. Today, the focus is to try to multiply them and distribute them better in the land. I hope that this funds and market application may be useful to people in particular at the national sector to try to get airlines to make better use of airports, e.g. North and East. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister only on this one, first of all: Is any policy started on the market application and on its continuation? I think it's important that the first thing we have is whether or not is how we're going to proceed with this because it's what matters. Then again, I'd like to ask a minister if she has any cooperation with the Minister of Internal Affairs to start some sort of marketing application at the international and Eastern airports.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u165	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech. I agree with what happened to her, and she knows Iceland's campaign from the start of the year, and I've accepted that torch. The key point of how successful it has been may be is two: it is the cooperation between the public and the companies and the partners, and then it is flexible. We can focus on what we want to do better or reach our goal by means of travel, and this needs to be done together. Hv. A senator asks about work for the market application. Yeah, there's a big part of the policy work that we're finishing up and being introduced in the next few days and weeks by tourism. This is one of the important things in which we need to agree on a course, how we will maintain it, and how we will endure it because it is a long run. The filter came and the signs went, and we don't want it to happen with the tourists, that we stop marketing Iceland just because there are many tourists now. This is fast changing, so I understand and thank you for the advice. Senator. In terms of a number of advisings, it's been reported that all of this is involved in policy development and focuses on the distribution of tourists. But a few months ago, the prime minister ordered a committee to review these matters, which I expect will soon be delivered. We know exactly what we need to do. They need to be interested. We're always presenting this to all the airlines that come here. [[The president calls.]] If the market situation alone does not change, then the question is, "Don't you have to come up to the so-called," excuse Mr. President of English sludge, a fund to promote this. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We await the decision made by the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u166	More than that, the president is more concerned about his speaking period than about changing his language in a foreign field, which is not to be imitated either. [[I apologize for that too.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u167	A respectable president. I appreciate those answers. I'm going to stress it here that it's important that, at first, what this is going to do for a long time is just because of good cooperation between public and private parties. It is not easy to keep it in good condition, but it is actually even more challenging when it comes to maintaining this good relationship. Hence, it is important that humans try to spend the long time together. I disagree. paritaprevir Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir's idea that maybe we should now put the money in construction within the country, because if we're going to stake this sector into place as one of our largest currency mails then we'll have to do both. You can't think: Now we're going to skip the market and go to something else. We have to do both, and that's why we have to get the outflow of the money at the tourist market and if there's any change to it, we'll just have to do it. Then we must continue the market application. There's nothing given in this, it's constant work, and then it's a question of what you're putting into it. Before we started putting money into one pot, money from the government, and money from the private sector, it was so that the government sent out a dollar to an individual person at the market, and it was so badly used. It will be so much better if it is holistic, the force of the stroke becomes larger, and that is why we want to stress so much that it will not go back to that time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u168	A respectable president. Again, I agree. A senator, and I fully agree that we do not want to go back to the time when the government assigned an assignment to individual parties because we simply cannot do so anymore. This work has become much bigger than that, it would be impossible to choose partners unless it was random. It's not an option to go that way. I agree with you, too. A senator says we have to do both. This is a very important article. I continue to talk like a oracle about policy, which I'm very interested in, and I'm looking forward to when we can start talking about it because it's about how we can keep all the many balls at once and that we're shooting at the same goal, so we're gonna take the ball-like thing all the way. I'd like to tap a little bit on the distribution of tourists and the portals, because I was past the previous stage. If we could take a fraction of the traffique that goes through the Cheflavor airport to other airports, there are some goals, there are many balls, some goals in that. The more we spread the tourists around the country, the more research shows that the more people who land in Chefavík stay here in the south than in areas far away from the airports. As a result, the infrastructure and investments there that have been abundant in recent years are less useful, fewer stays and less incomes. I hope that the committee has put it all into the document so that we can get the pros and cons and the costs and the prerequisite value of the government to spend money for this category, because it will bring us benefits in the overall context.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u169	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend this discussion, but I'd like to mention one thing because I'm a big fan of improved tourism and tourist facilities. During the summer of my journey, I noticed that in Iceland a pot is broken, especially in transportation. For example, we heard the news of this ruffled language, which really pisses on everything and tells you that things have to be done. You have observed carefully how to increase your income and how to do so best. I'd like to put an extra charge on all the passengers who don't have Icelandic citizenship, that they'd pay for it as soon as they bought their cargo tickets to Iceland, but that's maybe an update I've heard at the highest rate. Minister will talk about it before. There's one thing I'd like to ask the highest. The minister of it, because one of the first works of the government when it began, was to withdraw the increase of the cost of host tax that was due to be paid 14% from 7%. According to what was then spoken of here at the Assembly Hall, it was to be returned about 500 million in 2013 and 1.5 billion in 2014, so I now do not talk about it, perhaps about 5 billion lost by the government's decision to cancel. I'd like to know why they did this, because 90% of the people who pay a stay in Iceland are foreigners. I'd like to ask the minister just about that: wasn't this just a mistake? Would not the position of tourism today be much better, and would we not have received just the funds to build wood that truly needs to be done? That was the question I wanted to direct to the highest. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u170	A respectable president. There's a lot of pleasure next to what's happened. A senator said that this was one of our first works. No, I don't think it was a mistake, on the contrary. To review the background of that case, the local government was first proposed on a budget bill in September to move the accommodations from lower steps up to the upper level, saying to raise to 25.5% from 7%. This was to be done on no note, and we were highly criticized, and we shared in this criticism because of the problem and also because we were setting that service, staying, to the highest level, and we are comparing ourselves to an international one. It's not the hotel in Keflavík to compete with the Hotel in Akureyri. Rather, we're competing with other countries. Then it was decided that the government would put this third step on. We also criticized it because it creates a more complex situation that violates the present government policy and therefore brought it back. We already see in travel services and other articles a great deal of evidence that once the system is too complicated, people start selling packages. There were actually four steps in progress; rooming, refreshments, alcohol, and recreation that were zero, so the system was way too complicated. The figures as number one. A senator says about income, I think it's highly overrated because it would never have paid off in this way because it had been invented. Besides, it's completely unclear whether this had ever gone to the tourist market fund. It wasn't supposed to go there. It was supposed to go to the state fund. It was a form of income that was not an earmarked success fund for tourism, and it is far from saying how they had been treated. However, it must be considered in my second speech, ensuring that, as presented here in the discussion the foreview of financing, and that's what we're working on.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u171	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. True, it might be complicated, but as I remember this, tourists had completely assumed this in their prices for the year, so when it was pulled back, I think they were the only ones making it. Of course, things could become complicated, and so on. It may not have been quite the easiest thing to start in Iceland for that discussion and how it was implemented, for he died his lord. I take seriously the minister's answers, but I don't agree with them. I think the government would have had the right to let this rise go, and then they'd be earmarking the tourism services. I think, we can disagree that this was a mistake and a government fund, and especially the tourist industry, would have needed that money. We'll see what conditions are like today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u172	A respectable president. I'm surprised we were. A senator does not agree that we often do so, end up in the same district as that, we should not say overwhelmingly. It is the exception if we disagree, but there we must simply disagree. But what we agree on, let us focus on it, to ensure the building of financing in multi-fried tourist areas, and to protect nature. We need to find ways to do so. The natural right, as the senator mentioned, was to be a means of doing so. He did not succeed, and that is just the case. But we are, as I went through earlier in my first speech, already making changes in the valuable tax system. The lower level is higher. As a result, we gain additional income. We're reducing accessations and improving the taxes at the same time that we're simplifying the system, making it easier for us to work. We also have other goals, we're eliminating black business, and we're setting matters in such a way that it's easy to run a business. To all these goals combined, I think we're working it correctly, and then I'm witnessing again and again to the policy work we're about to complete, there's some emphasis on how we want to secure the structure. As for the tourism budget, we now see that it does not just land on the fund; we need to improve the development of rural planning; we need to prepare for construction. Even if we are in a hurry, we need to take time. We can't start with the roof, we always have to start building the ground floor, and that's what we've been burning on, and that's where we're making improvements.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u173	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a few of the budgets of the lawsuits that I am responsible for as a marine economist and agricultural ministers. Overall, there are over 20 billion expenses, including the cost of the Ministry of Health over 800 million. K. First, it should be noted that almost 1,800 million are expected. K. • providing services for marine and water research, research and advisers that will be established on the basis of the Agency's Summit and the Marine Research Centre. The budgets of these institutions are expected to move to a new budget, but the two institutions received a total of 1,860 million. K. This is the equivalent of over 63 million in current budgets. K. decrease from year to year including increase in income and prices to 94 million. K. It'll be explained by a few suggestions and I'll go over it a little bit. First of all, a temporary drop is 150 million. K. contribution due to the whale count at Iceland during 2015, which was released to this year and was conducted this year, thus not being meant to remain in budgets. Second, a temporary drop of 50 million. K. contribution due to the renewal and maintenance of equipment in 2015, which was a single-change set of sources of funds in that year. Third, we recommend a temporary supply of 50 million. K. contribute to one year due to the cost of implementation of marine and water studies. I know members of Congress know that in the sea and water research bill, all the employees of both institutions were expected to be offered a job for a new agency. Part of the staff has a court of remuneration and is expected to take advantage of it. In other words, funding for this category is not being reduced. Rather, the economy will remain in a new institution and should promote further research. The bill of the unity of these two institutions has been submitted again at the council, and I hope that I can measure it as soon as possible and rely on good cooperation with a professional committee and the council to make it work quickly and well, since it was done on the final meters last spring but failed to complete it at the end of the council last summer. It is also suggested that 80 million will be temporarily granted. K. a contribution to the next five years to a project called the Food Land of Iceland. This is a building project to deal with, among other things, that a growing number of world tourists choose their destination because of food culture and the experiences associated with food in one way or another. The goal is to increase the value of a person's motivation to experience and enjoy foods, to learn to cook, to get to know the production, background, history, and traditions. The cost lies in the policy and internal work of the project, research, introduction and market. The Department of Professional Road and Development and the Ministry of State will meet and be its management at the National Institute of Iceland. As a project for the next year, it is also suggested that 25 million be built up. K. a temporary contribution will be made for the next four years to the marketing project on the Icelandic horse, which is the cooperation of the marine eco-efficiency and agricultural minister, education and cultural minister, and the main horse - working stakeholders. The job article will put together an equal donation to the State. The project focuses on a joint market for a presentation on the Icelandic horse and on the lips and service related to it, not just in this country, but in the whole world. That leads to 9 million. K. up-to-date budgets due to the cost of veterinary services in the North and Eastern countries, which were under extensive consideration here in the last winter. Because of the difficult journey, especially during the winter months, there is a need to divide up so - called areas 5 and 6, i.e. Service areas, in accordance with Regulation 846/2001, have been difficult to manage, without providing additional funds. It should also be noted that it is entirely possible to wonder whether an overall review of the size of animal doctors and services in the whole country should be considered to ensure that the services we would like to be performed. That leaves 15 million. K. Visit the Food Agency for the costs of reporting on manufacturing centres in Iceland so that unscrupulous trading can be done with food in a state outside of the EEA. This has to do with free shop contracts. It is often necessary to negotiate so-called veterinary contracts or animal health contracts with vacation agreements. This part of the government has not been funded particularly, but it costs a certain amount, and this is suggested to 15 billion. K. I'm going to the Food Agency to make the best of it. Finally, I'd like to assume that nearly 500 million are expected. K. The budget for the building project and implementation programmes of the national part of the country, equivalent to over 60 billion. K. increase in real value from current budgets and we are only adding in part to the parish programmes of the country that people know have been pretty well accepted around the country, we are following in strong forces there. During the last spring, there was an approved law here that included the strategy, which included legalization as one part of the government's regional policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u174	A respectable president. I'd like to celebrate first of all. A minister traced increases in national regional and regional policies. I'm glad that the government has transpired the methodology that can be said to be a broad transnational agreement, and which I think is now making great success around the country, because we have a lot to do with efficient and powerful regional policy. I'm glad too, I don't see where the bill is, that I heard a case at the highest level. Minister that there would also be additional contributions due to veterinary services in the North and East which I've heard a lot of complaints about; farmers are very uncertain about the welfare of their flocks. I trust that money is there, and I rejoice in it, in accordance with the highest words. Minister. However, I would like to ask specifically questions about ocean research. This is an estimate of the integration of strains at the Marine and Water Research Institute, i.e. Together with the National Institute of Fishing and Marine Research, there is no anticipated increase in budgets. Such unity has been shown to cost money. I wondered, then, if there were really enough men to figure it out, but it also reminds me that we had a lot of last winter's discussion. I asked the highest. Ministers, then, often of the lack of funds for marine research. It was impossible to keep out the ships of the Oceanographic Institute, and men went into a very strange trapeze by providing private companies with food to eat and to have fishing companies go on research missions rather than building out a marine research agency. Recently, during my travels through the country, I heard a lot of concern about the state of ocean research. Civilians told me that they were far below critical limits and that basic research would make more money. We would have gone so far as to be in the market business of the Icelandic seafaring industry as a result of the absence of adequate, safe, and neutral research that the fish industry and the seabed companies could confirm for their clients that there was a sustainable fishing in Iceland because there was so much to cut down in ocean research. [[The president calls.]] So I want to ask the highest. Minister: Why is extra production not expected for ocean research? [[The president calls.]] I believe, in view of the terrible description of the builders from far and wide throughout the country, that there is a great need to improve the research of the sea. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u175	A respectable president. Thanks for the inquiry. Only about two things as a dog. A senator mentioned earlier, as the strategy for parishion, became very clear as government policy that this bill, of legalizing parish plans as part of community policy last summer, was installed there. To prove this, we must place a little more money on this and no doubt have to continue with that course if this methodology works out as well as many hope it will be. That's what I'm talking about. A senator inquired about this in Article 234 under the Food Agency, published on page 24. 321 on the bill. It is part of meeting what we were able to save most in the past year, but not in all respects, but that challenge in this area is being solved in this way. Then, about the main question and the topic of discussion, about sea research, I can agree with it. A senator said that it is very important for us to engage in very powerful marine research. Over the next few years, I have believed that with the association of these institutions, there will be an even more advanced institution in this field and, as shown in my case, it is not expected that the economy that will be taken together will be taken from the Agency, but it is expected that the economy will come to the Agency as a contribution that it can apply to support and growth. During the past year, we added a little something, one of which is a process that is now falling out because of the whale count and other factors, but also permanent funds, and the contributions continue. I agree, of course, that we need to discuss it and examine it carefully at a financial committee and a trade committee and at the council to see if there is any further reason to add. [[The president calls.]] But the position of the Agency such as this is far different this year from that it has been in the past few years.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u176	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of answers and rejoices at what he says is that the Agency has more leeway. I think there is a reason to pay attention to this, both on the budget board and on the job board, to see if there's enough money in it. It is pointless that the Agency's ships are confined to the docks of the year and that the Agency cannot use this important research vessel. The money and the situation are badly treated. And then, of course, it's very dangerous if the situation is that - I heard, for example, that last year, there was a shrimping expedition that took two private companies and cost quite a few of the two private companies. Without such a expedition, no shrimp research would have taken place on the part of the Icelandic government, and no shrimp exporting company could have confirmed to its business partners in the world that sustainable fishing was being done. This is a serious case, and we have come to the far edge of what we can allow ourselves to do in the lack of basic research as a exporting nation, all of which puts forth to sell a product on a market of sustainable fishing. We have to be able to demonstrate in a clear way and to the scientific conclusion that the catchs meet all the demand for sustainability, and this is a very dangerous sign. I'd like to reiterate the wish that the Minister would add weight to the scales to the top of the administrative committees for a trial. There is no room for doubt about being with the Agency's ship tied to a dock and then destroying the people as the people in common in having these research on ships that are much less suitable for such tests than the Agency's own ship, let alone, as in the case of shrimp, that it may happen a year from then that the only research required by the exporters is involved. It's not good for them, either. You need to have publicized basic research that is derived from a joint fund to ensure you have access to your companies in markets.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u177	A respectable president. We agree on that, me and what. paritaprevir The Árni Páll, the apostle Árnason, noted that ocean studies are very important. It has been found that the policy we've been driving for years, to use our institutions in a sustainable way, and to witness to them, is a key factor in the marketing of Icelandic sea products. There is an increasing demand for buyers not only to witness individual organizations but also to the environment and so forth, and we certainly need to improve the capacity of the Agency to witness it, i.e. to further investigate the environment. In many ways, however, our efforts have been quite successful, and as I entered my previous talk, the Agency is doing quite well financially at present and in a very different way than in recent years. Of course, some practical measures have been taken. People have cooperated with other countries. For example, we have made agreements with Greenland to use our ship for further research. In dealing with the countries involved in a hair contract, it has been suggested that it is part of the contract that these countries are involved in the cost of it. If we look at the pictures that we often make in this hall to the Norwegians, the industry is much more involved in ocean research than is done here. It is in part another system, and we must ensure that the testimony given by the official organisation, the Oceanographic Institute, later the Iceland Marine and Water Institute - that the results it provides are credible and unconcerned. I think, however, that at the same time, we can walk into an environment where we look at neighboring countries, how they do this, to ensure that the research we need to be conducted and done in the most practical way at any given time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u178	Madam President. I had just planned to make studies and contributions to them as a subject, but I could cut my language short with reference to the debates presented here. I don't know. I don't have much to worry about. It is a pleasure to have the Minister weigh the position of the Agency better than it has recently been. I know from past experiences that it was difficult to fly these things along, and most funds were emptied. Here, however, the cohesion of these two institutions should be reduced. It has sometimes come during the day to profit from such things, not immediately or often even at a cost. This also reduces temporary donations to renew maintenance and equipment. Then I must ask, though it may be called courage to do so in the light of these figures: What is the decision to renew the vessel? Three years ago or so, the data on my level were that there was a state of emergency ahead and the lower research ship could not be kept out much longer without either attacking large rebuilding or starting preparation for new development. It may not be a good investment, and it will take two or three years to rebuild it. A decision must be made on this matter, even if it may not be necessary until 2017. Second, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister for contributions to rural development. I heard him say that this was a small addition to the material, but the report is published on page 9. 328 of the budget bill considered questions. First of all, it says, by permission of the President: ▪ The other side is suggested to bring down 50 million. K. temporary contributions due to the specific measures in defence areas are in line to break-off areas of Is that supposed to be off? Should this text be taken literally? There was some kind of a fuck-up last year, is that being repeated here? Second, regarding national conventions, it says: ◯... on the one hand suggested that 45 billion be paid. K. contribution to the national target areas (U.S.A.) - What? 45 million on the whole project. Is this true? Madam President, I'm asking the highest. Seafood and agricultural Minister: Is this the right text? V.E.G. Minister, is this the correct text of the budget bill? Then I don't call it a remarkable increase, since this has become such a quiet amount of money that the hard work that is to prepare, because the parts of the country would priorize their requests if they didn't put more money on it. Third, please. Small things the dog can't find when it's being licked up some savings - dropping 2 billion. K. temporary contributions to the Research Centre Rifs se., the Auto-Communications Agency of the Rausfa crew, a part of the project Dangers based on Rausfa Harbor. What is this message? One of the things people have hoped they could lift the place up. Finally, I ask the highest. Ministers, though it may not be directly beneath him, or now I can't remember it because the project is at the graffiti, on the equal transport costs. It is now incorporated only by 2016 in 175 million. K. but the project started with 200 billion. K. In 2012, so this is, of course, a significant impairment. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What does a local minister say about this?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u179	A respectable president. First, I'd like to say that the team on Based plans and application programmes is rising by 15% from the previous year. Besides, I have to say just as it is, I am amazed that such an experienced senator and former financial secretary read the law in this way. In the case of fractured communities, 50 million people have been trapped for years. K. The contribution to the campaign project. Of course, this will continue. Last year we caught 50 million. K. a further addition to the number of paintings, i.e. That's 100 million paintings. K. Of course, we wondered, " Should this not continue to be the order of magnitude?'But it was discovered that these funds have not been used so far. Hence, it is natural that a building agency uses them first to carry out the task before offering to maintain a new budget. It may well have to be increased again in the years ahead, and we will. In the years since the national conventions are just what they were in years, this has been a mess. Nevertheless, there are 100 million. K. Go to it, and they did it last year. Now we're adding 45 million. K. into that team, making it 145 million. K. and a significant increase in percent, the amount may not go up immensely, but we certainly are adding. As we know, 2015's budget was a temporary donation. If it does not continue untimely to the future, it needs to be taken back into these laws and is being done so. About two million. K. A contribution to the Research Centre Rifs, I cannot answer to the senator exactly why it is, but I guess it has to do with the project related to Frastres built and using the funds we've had at the graffiti for some purpose. I expect they'll be there without me knowing it. So I'm not going to say anything about it from that talk chair without checking it out.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u180	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers, including this last one. I'm very fond of the highest. Ministers are planning to see if this text of budgeting is an automatic check that the project with the Research Centre Rif falls. Whether I read a table on page, I pretend to read it a little bit. 325 - Yes, it is true that the pantheon as a whole, the national market plan, and the national conventions have an increase of 422 billion. K. of 485 billion. At a time, but then you read the caption on page 18. 328 and that's how it goes. I think they could have enjoyed their homework a little bit more and understandably, even for their former financial minister, but that's not so. There is no way to figure out where this level of centenarian growth is made up of one point in the table, the national core plan and application programmes. It's a good thing to hear what's positive about this, that there's a quarter of a million projects called Freights going on, and that's 45 million. K. increase in the strategy, if there's a planned switch. I'm glad you're here. I asked the highest. The minister on the equal transportation costs and the nature of the case, according to the guidelines, did not find out everything. Now I don't know if it's still in the industrial and commercial fields, but I'm closer to thinking it's with the local minister because the project was moved to the Agency. I'm wondering, what is it that's been letin' down a year? Dive to 200 million. Well, well, actually, beds, and it's supposed to stand for about 175 million. K., unchanged from year to year, in 2016. Besides, I think it's the highest. The head of the law should spend 20 seconds at the end of this series in answer to whether he is pleased and satisfied with the means to which he or she is going on in the bill. The situation on the country's road system may be one of Iceland's greatest based solutions today. [[The president calls.]] It rains on us protests of the situation, especially on the malarkey system. [[The president calls.]] I feel like the highest. Secretary of law may have that opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u181	A respectable president. Just a few of the national based plans and application programmes listed on page 12. 65. It shows that the basis of the projection is 33.6 billion. K. and national conventions at 145 million. K., so it appears in the text. The caption focuses mainly on what has been changed from the laws of the past, as we know. I can agree with an ex- secretary of finance and what. Foreman that this text, which has always been like this, is a bit incomprehensible. He's always been like this, and there's something to read between the lines and what was last year to figure out what that says. You might wonder if it could not be corrected. In terms of the transportation fund, the funds have been reduced because the funds have not gone out. In other words, these funds have been less needed. We have done this in harmony with what has been and expected. I agree with what. Senator, this is an important assignment. It may be necessary for us at some point to wonder if the material on the fund, distance, and proportions are the right thing to do, but as this system was installed, the funds are not really using more than this, so we are actually adapting to the environment in the country. Finally, about transportation. I think we can all agree over the years, we have given too little money to transport, reject, fly away, and make roads in the country. One of the most important projects that we are facing is to increase those contributions. I think it's a common project that the Parliament needs to consider in the light of growing tourism, as well as a security issue for us citizens of the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u182	A respectable president. I'm going to ask a few small questions, it's such a spade, it's primarily about what I feel is inexplicable in the bill. On page 18. 318 contributes to a variety of sectoral and innovation contributions proposed to up to 80 billion. K. will be temporarily granted for five years to the projects Food Land of Iceland. I wonder if it's 80 million. K. In five years, this is the case. If so, it is a considerable amount of money, and it is important to have a plan of action on what they are going for. On page 18. 319 is referred to as a donation, 25 million. K. four years of donation. Maybe it's always the same, but it's a question, is it 25 million? K. ... orit's 25 million. K. Every year for four years? That's 100 million, then. K. all of it, or is it in these four years? I noticed when I was reading this text, I thought it kind of cute, that it says: ▪ The origin of the Icelandic horse is an important factor and is to build for the continuation and further marketing of horses born in Iceland. I can agree with that. And then there's: Then, it is important to promote horse and body ethic as a family sport in the country and abroad and that the horse becomes an increasing part of the experience of tourists in the country. I also agree with that, but I find it very special to see in the budget bill that you're promoting family sports, which is then aggressive. I might as well talk about tennis or mountain trips or anything. I just noticed, and I thought it was kind of funny. I'm asking if there's any kind of policy involved, or if it's just a friendly tip. Then, on the lower page. 320 said 15 million. K. increase in budgets due to increased costs of assessment at European Topic Centres. It says that people abroad want to make sure that the manufacturing process is in order in this country, making rich requirements for food production, and further demands to come to Iceland and take out the production conditions here, as well as making it a requirement that Iceland pay the cost of these costs. As I read it, it's like there's some people abroad, a little freckles, who like to come here and we're paying for it. Isn't this part of the surveillance we're committed to, this 15 million? K. Right here? Are these ESA visits? What is this? Are we just giving in to some guys who want to come here and we're paying the bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u183	A respectable president. I'll be happy to explain these teams. About the last number on page 30. 320, this 15 million. Well, then it's not because of regular EEA visits or anything like that, it's just because we're making vacation deals with countries far away. As a vacation agreement, we need to make a so - called veterinary contract or an animal health contract, and this has not been expected in the process. Since we have been dealing with nations, whether in Asia, Africa, America, or elsewhere, there is, of course, not the same kind of rule as in the EEA Convention, so those nations require something different. Then they want to come and take it out and demand that we pay some of the cost, and it hasn't been financed, or the financial resources planned for it, to this point, and we are reacting to it. With Iceland's Food Land, that's 80 million. K. In five years, this is 400 million. K. Of course, there is a considerable amount of money, even though when we start to wonder what this whole assignment is going to be. A project of a similar kind was done in Sweden some seven to eight years ago and has cost the Swedish state some billions of dollars, but it has brought them back billions of times. We expect the same thing from this assignment. This work is being done in cooperation with the National Institute of Iceland, and the preparations are starting to examine the view and outlook of the grass roots. It is very important that all the grass roots in Iceland experience as a participants in the manufacture of food, either in agriculture or in the fishing field, and therefore this is a very exciting project. The same is true of the horse project. There are the International Horse, FEF, in which 20 countries are involved. The Icelandic horse is probably in thirty states all over. There are 500 of you. a man in the great world of 60 member countries of the Icelandic horse, these are people who are our best ambassadors, they want to buy all Icelandic goods. [[The president calls.]] We're on this project, too, 25 million. K. in a year to four years, it may be lower. [[The president calls.]] This is what we're trying to do, but any other Icelandic product can build a market on it as well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u184	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. I'd like to finally ask about 541, which is part of the national conventions and conventions, because I had a little difficulty understanding this. Of course, there's been a bit of a ring going around. Participation plans were if I recall some specials. What I'm wondering is that the number of parishions within the country is 145 million. I'm glad they're putting money in there, I think it might even be more because they're a successful project, cross political reconciliation seems to be about it, and pretty much no matter who you talk to, rural areas in the country, even in the capital area. This is the best, and it needs to be continued. Then there is what is called a groundwork plan. What the hell is that? Is it some kind of pot? For example, it refers to a budget that was due to the transport of the Fish Room and then some contribution to the research center, so I only curious about exactly what this feature is. Can he just be anything, or is it always the same? Is he in the custody of the Ministry or Based Office? I just want to know more about what's built-in.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u185	A respectable president. I agree with that, and I've heard it here at the council, and everywhere you come, people are quite pleased with the ideologies that are based on the national parish plans. Therefore, at the spring council, we have legalized that shows the policy of the government of this suit. We can agree that between 145 million and eight million and eight parts of the country, if I remember correctly, there were 100 million in the current year, an increase of 45 million. The national participation has been signed for five years, if I recall correctly, of distribution of those funds. In other words, the monthly projections of 30.6 million are the growth agreements and cultural travel agreements that we have entered one canal. It is also discussed in this legal system only how we visualize this system, the Counciller's operating network, where all the Ministry meets, and the representatives of the Union and the national parts are also there. It has become such a manager or head management, this one, and then a contract has been made on the basis of this part of the national organisation so that money actually goes through this canal from the state, this one, and then spreads to the national community in a visible way. Such agreements have been made with all these parties for some year, and some kind of model has been made for the distribution of money. During the last year, we made an effort to correct the division between parts of the country because treaties had been made at different times and by different governments and had different strengths in different parts of the country. We took quite a good step in it last year, and I think about this state some peace. So that's a 15% increase we're making on these two teams.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u186	A respectable president. This is my most welcome opportunity to review the priorities I consider to be the most urgent of the many projects under the office of the Department of Social Services and the Ministry of Health. It should not be surprising here that I put domestic housing in first place, but pension business and improved interest in pensioners is also a case that I put emphasis on. Before proceeding any further, I would like to remind you of the government's declaration since May of the summer, where great measures and measures were made by the government, including the government. in the field of welfare and housing, related to the implementation of collective labour market agreements. The key issues that I will face in the coming winters will truly be seen by this declaration, which I consider as an important covenant and basis for urgent and important improvements in behalf of our homes and families in our country. A respectable president. Now we have received the presentation on the budget bill, and the third year in a row is expected to be a baseless budget. In spite of, or perhaps just because of financial preservation, there has been room for a better quality of life. It certainly is a pleasure for a minister in my office. I'm going to skim the big numbers in short to put things in perspective. Social and housing contributions are under the budget of 45% of the Department of Health, i.e. Less than 133.5 billion times. This is a 7.7% increase from the previous year. In total, there is an increase to the social security system in the next 11 billion years. ... likeI'llgo into more details afterwards. National housing improvement measures are priorities, and a total of 2,640 billion are expected. K. will be devoted to building up a social home and in a new housing system. Health insurance and unemployment improvements increase by 9.4% according to the budget, resulting in a total of 9.6 billion dollars. In addition, the increase in pensioners and other changes is a total of 11 billion. One report on the budget shows that considering the cumulative increase in pensions in 2014 and 2015, it totals 12.7% and 16.6%, respectively. During the same period, the cumulative inflation rate of 8.7% is predicted showing a marked increase in the cost of sensibility and disability. Unemployment rates are also increased by 9.4%, adding up an amount of 1.1 billion. And it is, of course, an important increase for those who are so unfortunate that they do not have paid for their jobs. However, as soon as I mention this, I also want to point to the delightful fact that the total cost of unemployment insurance has declined rapidly during the last loss as the situation in the country has improved. But then to the premises. About 1.1 billion a.m. will be devoted to increased housing support for tenants in a general rent market over the next year and about 1.5 billion dollars. to build up social rented. I'll bring in the next few bills that are involved in the implementation of the changes and improvements in housing. Together these bills are aimed at promoting an increase in cost-and-efficient housing, increasing the security of tenants, equal support from the government to the tenants, ensuring long-term low-cost families, raising housing support to tenants in general markets, lowering the housing costs of the consumer owners and paying the way of buying at the first apartment. Baseline housing improvements will be increased as well as voluntary limits, and in terms of improvements money will take into account the number of members of the household regardless of age in the place of family or the number of children as it has been. In this way, I take into account the extra expenses of home living. The objective is to increase housing support to tenants so that it becomes more equal to government housing support to the buyers of an apartment building within the growth system. We will then lay the foundation of a new social contracting system that will focus on increasing the number of cost-and-expensive apartments to ensure long-term low income housing for families. The social rent system will be financed by the founding of the state and rural society and by the government's direct wax pay, which accounts for about 30% of the cost of stocks. The next year's work is planned to begin in the construction of a social tenement and spend 1.5 billion dollars. This is in line with the previously mentioned government declaration in connection with the preparation of collective agreements. It described the government's decision to build 2,300 rented apartments over the next four years that would be financed in the way that I mentioned earlier. Governments are now active working groups with stakeholders working on further implementation of these measures, and they are expected to be submitted later in the fall for the approval of the General Assembly on the budget bill. Based on the fact that law-makers who intend to build and run a social tenement, there may be rural and non-profit communities or non-profit organisations with the long-term goal of building, possessing, and managing rent-instruction management only intended for tenants under certain income and property boundaries. It will be restricted to the removal of apartments from the social rent system, but if authorised it will be set up as a provision for sales. In addition, because this is a man going over the big team, I'd like to have a special way to make sure that there's an increase in the amount of contributions to the worksheet fund by 450 million. K. the year following, in accordance with the agreement of the government and the overall body of the workforce since March, where donations from the State Fund should be applied. The meeting ensures that all who are due are now committed to working-renewing in order to become active at a labour market. As a result of a discussion on the personal assistance of disabled persons, the continuation of this project is worth 85 million. K. in 2016. The General agreed at the last council to make a legal adjustment requiring that NPA be continued as a research project to end 2016 and a professional and financial assessment of the project is currently being carried out. [[The president calls.]] It is aimed at finishing that assessment at the end of the next year, and it will also review local social services and correct the affairs of disabled persons.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u187	Mr. President. I'm going to focus on housing, but I'd like to start by asking about the NPA that the minister came in a little bit. This is so that next year the government's funding will be 150 million. K. There's been a lot of debate with the rurals about financing, and I'd like to ask the highest degree. Minister to see if she thinks this funding is 150 million. K., enough to update the contracts in accordance with collective agreements, to increase the contracts to 61 and to see if the enterprises are content to not up to 30% of the government funding will continue to be 20%. Then it is the automobiles, and it strengthens the movement of people. It was a committee that produced a report, and their main objective was to break and prevent social isolation of motorists and increase their potential for work, rehabilitation, and study. It was to change the strength of cars and also provide transportation to all motorists. The estimated cost for the first year was 210 million, which would then increase. These suggestions were widely accepted, and ministers rejoiced with them in their time. The financing bill has obviously thrown out the suggestions and is to reduce automobile funding. I'd like to ask a minister of what kind this might be, why are people brought to work where they come to their conclusions, and then the suggestions are ignored? Then we come to the premises, and I express disappointment that this was the best place to do. There are 1,5 billion interest improvements being cut off, and I find it amazing when the rent - rent situation is too low, and the labor movement has already declared a great disappointment that has not gone to at least 600, I believe they would have had to be more. Then I'd like to ask: What happened to the development of a public rent? It is a fine price to find ways to build cheap and small housing, but there is a great need for housing for families in a public rented. It must go in full effort to promote it, for today's society will not work unless there is a real, active labour market. What are the actual plans of a minister in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u188	A respectable president. I appreciate the questions from what happened. Senator. Our proposal for 85 million. K. to NPA assumes that we can live with the agreements we have made. There has been a request made by the local community that the government's cost will rise from 20 to 30%. However, we feel very important in view of the fact that this is an experimental project that we simply finish this project before we make changes in how the money exchange has been between the state and rural society. However, we stress the need to continue working on this in good cooperation with the NPA project, as well as with the rural communities, which carry the heat and weight of the project. In the case of automobiles, that is not to say that they are making any suggestions. These are very practical suggestions, and we have been considering how to meet these ideas. However, as shown in my speech, it is quite clear that the priorities now that are involved in the social and housing arrangements are on the other hand, the housing issues that I believe will be in particular for those with low income, are pension workers, attention to them, and then the general increase in public security and unemployment benefits. Hv. A senator merely introduced the interest benefits. It is clear, however, that the home's debt has improved substantially, including some of them. Because of the action the government has taken in connection with the correction of debt, so when debt decreases, it may not be unusual to reduce the growth as well. But I encourage a financial committee to cover the requirements for growth, as well as what is stated in the government's declaration of housing and compensation. Regarding the general tenet, there's a problem. A senator well to the bill for changes in the support of tenants and how this can affect the general tenement may be affected, and likewise there is a suggestion for a tax reduction due to renting a financial minister with the income side. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u189	V.E.G. President. For NPA, I'd like to say that I'd like answers to how many contracts the Minister is talking about. Is this 61 as planned, or is there a number of contracts that she's going to finance with this, on behalf of the State? However, I would like to know if there are collective increases expected in this budget, because otherwise this means reduced NPA service. With the strength of cars, it is natural, so ministers must care for all their legal groups. You can't say that because social insurance pensions are increasing, it doesn't have to raise the size of cars, no one buys a special car for an increase that may amount to 5◯10. K. every month. There is no way to resolve that matter in this way. I ask: Is the Minister's opinion going to implement these suggestions? When, then, will she do so? With regard to housing matters, there is a decline in real value. The debt has fallen, but it does not increase to those who are entitled to it, since it does not adhere to prices, roofs, and all of that. For the tenet, change of support and growth is certainly being proposed, but this is the case with housing that is a major problem. There is a need for increased supply of rented areas, and this calls for failure. It suggested building grants that the minister, with the Independence Party, has decided to make up everything to strengthen the social network. We in the Union want a public rent for everyone regardless of a position where the support depends on social conditions, housing is not social in itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u190	A respectable president. I have no doubt. A senator will have a fine winter opportunity until Christmas, to learn how the start-up will become a success when that bill comes out. We've been looking at the ASI arrangement, and this is part of the collective agreements, one of the key users, that we had a very good deal for four years. Information on the proposals of ASI can be found, among other things, on the website of the Project Management Board on the future budget and on the cooperation group. There was a senator. It states exactly how this is thought, and it is precisely made clear in the declaration that this is not only the largest income group in the world but also that two of the lowest - income lovers - so people who are in the workplace will now have a chance to enter a new system. I'd also like to reiterate, because I didn't get it clearly in my first speech, that there are certain changes being made in the taxation of rent making a significant increase in the payoff target. This calls for more long - term rent, thus increasing the supply in the rented market. It is also to consider how we can support tenants with an increase in income markets and infrastructures now in the two steps of 2016 and 2017, in accordance with the declaration. It is quite clear, and it was shown in my speech, that the priorities have been this; the housing, and then the pensions, and we have set aside the money we have had within our range in these lawsuits. Of course, this does not change the fact that we are concerned with other matters under the ministry and that we have been considering what we can do to manage the car, so we can start with the suggestions we had regarding them. Then there are the criteria for MPA. The number remains unchanged, and it can also be noted that this is a percentage of the cost, which, of course, accounts for a 20% change compared to the below cost.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u191	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister of society and housing for her review of issues facing her. I'd like to start with the premises, and I'd like to agree with what's been said here about doing considerably less than I think many of us had hoped for, considering the way the discussion has been discussed. I agree that the plan to buy or build 400 rented apartments is simply not enough. I noticed, too, that the highest. As a minister, I wanted to ask the highest possible reason to build a suitable and inexpensive apartment. Minister, because construction regulations have now been considerable in the discussion when it comes to housing matters, whether it is acceptable to cancel the availability demand when it is to be built in general rented areas. I wanted to hear her vision of it. Then there are the rent payments, but here we expect more than 1 billion in the increase in rent money. I'd like to ask about the bill as the highest. A minister asked us to make a living. They were criticized, including. In a review from the financial office of the Ministry, that it did not achieve its aim to make enough money to bring good results. I'm asking if the highest. A minister will look at or modify something when it comes to how his rent will be calculated and taken care of. Then I'd like to step in on the disability benefits, since this is certainly a few more improvements. Last night's talk said the highest. Secretary of finance to make obvious progress from going to the labour market, and I'd like to say that he said it about unemployment benefits, but I think this is also true of disability, and there's a lot of unfair revenues. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to that. Never could it be said that in the process of increasing improvement, the revenues that are already in the system so that the poor will be better able to improve their income by means of employment? [[The president calls.]] I wonder if this discussion was never raised when discussing which way to improve the interests of thesis was discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u192	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator very much for his inquiry. I came last night from a visit from Denmark, where I had a nice meeting with the Danish Housing Ministry, which included this booklet on a nice and inexpensive apartment for young people. Danes have been working on developing apartments, where it should preferably be paid no more than 3,200 dollars. per month, which is between 60 and 70 levels. K. a month for an individual apartment and this is before providing support. What is so interesting is that there is much talk about the bioavailability issues and how to make sure that they are in the best form, and even about how these types of apartments might be used in housing for disabled people or even older people who live alone or others who live in such situations. Here we see that significant reductions in housing prices can be achieved but at the same time ensure that all those who need them can live in their homes. But it's perfectly clear, like a snooze. One senator said that a new category of workers is promised in the government declaration of housing matters, and that is simply so that the government has made a commitment to work in harmony with this declaration. The Environment and Resource Minister has appointed a team to review the building regulations and the planning laws and other factors involved in the cost. With regard to the rent or housing benefits, I reiterate what I have said: Of course, the most support is for those who are less income and wealthy, according to the bill, it's totally clear. However, people with a higher income are being opened; a part of these are people who have come to the workplace, who earn a low income, who would have had the right to make interest if they had bought a home but were not currently entitled to receive rent money because they are in rented. [[The president calls.]] That's what we're about to take, and for one reason that ASI gave a very positive account of the bill now in the conduct of the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u193	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I'm glad to hear she has a brochure, even though I haven't seen it, about how to get these two, I'm getting it from the highest level. The minister will be able to combine suitable dressings with regard to the bioavailability as well. I'd like to encourage the highest. A minister who continues to maintain this viewpoint well, since I think there is a real danger that short - term thoughts will be taken care of. Of course, we know that the nation is getting older and that there will be a future need for accessible housing, even more so, from what we see today. I did not find the answer before if there had been any inspection for income connections or changes, I trust it to the highest level. Minister enter it in his second answer. But I'd also like to ask about improvements in social services. On page 18. 376 of the budget bill shows that further compensation, then in pensions, is dropping dramatically now from year to year, or about 40.7%. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to that. Further improvements are such that they are according to a dollar's scale. Is it so that by increasing disability improvements, a large number of pensioners exceed the criteria used to improve? If so, I ask myself, " How does this finally bring about changes in the final income? '
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u194	A respectable president. Thank you for the question. I couldn't answer all the questions in the previous answer. I agree with the senator's comments on the importance of pensioners having the potential to participate in the labour market. In the confederacy minister's bandora, which turns the edge of the income gate, it is expected to extend the free income target that turns toward microorganism in 2016. Again it is suggested that, unfortunately, work on the global re-evaluation of the social security system is not completed because people have been looking for a recording of their ability to work and a significant simplicity of the system. We are waiting for these suggestions before we make such changes, as it were. The senator spoke here, on the income link. In terms of our improvements, my sources have been reviewing it with the Ministry of Economic Affairs, believing that these numbers are not correct, so the budget has to go over it and correct the 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u195	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Social and housing minister for clearly explaining the issues of the financial bill involved in the Ministry. First, I want to discuss matters that are very important, and there is clear evidence in the budget bill for 2016, a building of a housing market. I'm well aware that much work has been done in the Ministry of Ministry. Ministers of the past few months, or just since she accepted this job, and there have been a lot of consultations in building these bills. Some of them have appeared and will be brought back as well as others. Criticism has come from some sources. The members of the government stand that this is not enough, but we have to look at it as about 400 apartments, and it's 400 apartments more than we've seen so far. It's a very big step, that's 1.6 billion that we see in the structure of this thing. We have a stock scholarship, if I get it right, which is a certain percentage of the price of an apartment. That's where I come to the first question I'd like to ask the highest. Minister. There has been a lot of debate about the construction of the stock strengths on social rented houses or for people with low incomes and at the lowest point in the transition. Am I right enough to understand that this can also apply if, for example, a bill is intended to buy a block, in many parts of the country, or in some places, e.g. empty housing, could you buy instead of building? Has there been an investigation? There is a great need for renthouses, including in the country, and when you've been talking about this while you've been traveling through the country, you've been asking a lot whether larger rural areas will be able to attend all the apartments or all the money that goes on this project. Do you think that there will be an X that will go to the country and an X number that will be in the capital, or that will be used for the rest of the bill work?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u196	Thank you. A senator for the questions. In my mind, the key numbers in the government declaration are that we will now be costing 30% of the apartment stock market. It also points out that in terms of income distribution, different family sizes, and the circumstances of people in the case of housing, the thought of this 30% donations of the state and of the rural society - we must not forget that the basis for the development of a government budget is that the rural communities have agreed on their share of contributions - we will expand it on the number and so on. It's, of course, that we're doing something that we haven't done before, we're building a new social rental system, I'll just say that here, that a more dance model of our system on finance. This, in turn, will explain mostly when the bill is presented at the council how it will be done accurately. The same applies to the distribution of the apartments. I strongly emphasize that we are building houses with planning, or rather, we are strengthening those who are going to build or to create housing where housing is needed. The need for housing needs to be clear. We know that in many parts of the country, for example, the growth of tourism has resulted in a significant need for housing. For example, I understand that in one of the South American countryside, they were simply losing a teacher because the person had grown tired of living in the migratory during the wintertime. [[The president calls.]] We will look at these factors, where the need for housing is, and so the donations will be based.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u197	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for the answers. These are a number of primary radios, some of which cover housing and two of which are relevant to housing benefits. If I only talk about that bill, it's very good to see the reviews received in summer about the bill and particularly from the student Social Services, if I'm correct, that it's important that this bill succeeds because it can be of great importance to those who rent to students' gardens to the reduction of what they have to pay in rent. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister whether she agrees with me in that we need to look at the bigger picture when it comes to housing. We need to look at housing improvements, we need to look for ways to build practical and inexpensive apartments, which we do partly through the structure, we need to revise the building principle of building practical and inexpensive apartments, taking into account important factors that need to be made. We need to have some tax appeals for those who are renting into apartments, even on rent payments, yes, or credit signs. Do we not have to look at all these factors in order to succeed in lowering rent prices? Is that not a major step in our having a realistic choice of farm shapes, about whether people want to buy, rent, or go to housing companies?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u198	A respectable president. I once again thank the senator for her questions and words. For example, what I would like to point out is the student council's comments on the bill of changed housing support to tenants. It clearly explains how thousands of students will be affected by the changes it is making. I have already given positive information about the changes that are particularly relevant to the public rent market. Our figures show that the homes that have the most burdensome housing costs are tenants in the general housing market, and they cover up to half of the verses of those in special resources. This is very important. Then it's also the tax changes we're making with our rent income, hopefully they'll help. In addition, this will hopefully allow for a measure of space so that after a certain period of time, people in the tenure will be able to take advantage of the living arrangements we are going to make permanently in order to make sure that people can save and buy themselves. Like what? A senator knows quite well after his work as a project manager on the future structure and the suggestions she offered and we've been working after them, there is actually no one suggestion that works, but it is such a big matter that many suggestions have to be made. It is so perfectly reflected in a government declaration involving collective agreements. I'd also like to say that the Council is giving a budget bill, that it is now being handled by the budget committee, and that since housing is simply part of the collective agreements, one of the key premises that we reach contracts for four years after a difficult work battle, a financial committee will review the tips that come from the labour market on the basis of the individual factors that turn to our share and also other factors that can be found in various parts of the budget and are linked to agreements.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u199	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Social and housing minister for her review. I'd like to discuss the problem we consider in human rights of disabled persons and have been observed in a general discussion and in my work environment, that rural communities feel unable to live up to the expense of a class of so - called lawsuits. At the same time, the government triumphs over having more money and still chooses to contribute little more to the group than it has been, a group of paintings that have been on the budget for a long time, if not always, even in the so - called kindness. There is a fine example of this, as well as the example of the test project on the user - controlled personal assistance. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingadóttir came in earlier. We know that the units involved in this project are paying 80% of the 51 MPA contract. The panther fund then assigns 20% of each contract to a rural society with the funding of the earmarked NAPA research project. However, this 80% fund is funded through the general donations from an equation fund, most of which are based on the value of the SIS assessment. Although collective agreement increases have been observed regularly since 2011, unity on the basis of SIS assessment has not been increased from baseline. The newest labour agreement increases will likely result in a 103/412% increase for each valid contract of the previously occurring labour agreements. There is also an estimated 5% increase due to collective agreements next year. As shown in the case of the highest. A minister seems to have only reached this 20% remain unchanged but is not meant to contribute to the 80% of which the rural communities are supposed to survive. All of us can have differing opinions about who is responsible for every government or community, but while most people hold their hands and even refuse to listen to one another, human rights violations are committed to disabled persons and/or employees of the one who has a right to mend men and women who work for disabled persons in separate homes. So I'm curious about the highest attitude. The social and housing minister is involved in these matters with 80% and how she intends to apply herself to a conversation between those who share the responsibility for this category.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u200	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Freyja Haraldsdóttir's daughter for the inquiry. After the transfer, it was suggested that it be reviewed, how it had gone. I'm waiting now, and hopefully over the next few weeks, I'll get a report from a committee that has only been delayed on the experience of translocation of disabled people to the local community. Companys have come and talk to me. The European Union's Commission has talked to us about major concern in rural society because despite the fact that during the first two years of the past, the category of business rests significantly, but the last year, the third year, despite a significant increase in the proportion of municipal income groups since the previous year. The revenue from the income stocks they received during the transfer has increased substantially, but the cost has simply increased even more. As a result of evolution and the recording of an equation fund, such as a dog. A senator mentioned, regarding the distribution of funds in SIS, this has come in a very different way to rural society. Aggressive communities that were previously very disproportionate and passed through the SIS assessment were reassigned, i.e. changes in distribution, while other rural communities, which may have been more at odds with the results of the SIS assessment. During the treatment of the Parliament's budget and the revenue of income, there is contact with the European Union, where there is a reason to make changes in the arrangement or not. This conclusion, therefore, is to be expected to exist just before we will provide the financial bill, which will be taken into account with regard to the viewpoint as strong. One U.S. senator mentioned some of these, and a group of members are concerned about us. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u201	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Social and housing minister for the answers. Of course, I welcome what was presented as a conversation, but that doesn't quite agree with what I hear about the Union's letters right now, to the social minister, where letters have not been answered or received bases. I would like to point out the consequences of this. The fact that this is not being handled right now means that disabled people need to limit their service, disabled people who are dependent on the ministry in order to survive. Of course, that is very serious. Furthermore, disabled people cannot increase the pay of their assistants in line with the pay increases that occur. It's a big standoff. How important it is that we discern the consequences of such a course! I find it strange, in view of the fact that the government has issued support and is working on the implementation of the UN Convention on the rights of disabled people, that they do not reflect on the financial bill. Those who are working on this induction should know that one of the most important articles is 19. ...,the article on independence and the right to live without separateness in the community. With that knowledge, there should be clear evidence in the budget that it was being contributed to this trial for disabled persons. I would like to hear more clearly about this. We can just pretend it's not a problem, and we can just wait for the end of the test project, but even if we act like it's not a problem and we don't react to it now, that doesn't mean the problem will break up. This can be very serious for the disabled who now assumes impairment because of what seems to be a communication problem between state and rural society. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u202	A respectable president. Thank you. Once again, a senator for the encouragement and word of God's Word. We're having a conversation with the Icelandic community and our communities on the issues of disabled persons. The money exchange between state and rural society will be reviewed in the treatment of the bill during the council, and I know that the rural communities will communicate with the financial committees of concerns that deal with their tasks in both the disabled and many other projects. What we have stressed, and it is important for local authorities to keep this in mind, is that disabled people are entitled to service, that is perfectly clear. The NPA project is an experimental project. We've been working on it in cooperation with the disabled individuals and with our rural communities, where the difference is that people themselves can direct the services they receive. The fundamental thought, however, is that disabled individuals have the right to serve. We then need to review the progress and failure of the transfer experience and, among other things, why we have seen significant increases in the number of people in our community service and what the explanation may be.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u203	A respectable president. Social security is one of the largest budgets in the law, and both elderly and desperate people have made serious comments that they do not have a choice from May 1 like other people in the country. I suppose the highest. A minister made it necessary for them to get the same correction as others. A number of government employees have received checks from a government fund for the sludgement since May 1. To this day and there is no question about funding in this regard. There's only extra funds available for those expenses and unforeseen occurrences. Therefore, I ask the minister: What would be the cost of improving the interest of the elderly and the disability of the country this year from May 1 through New Year's Eve? I'd also like to ask the minister, because I'm also suggesting that she has promoted the next year of the budget under here, 2016, both the elderly and the desperate will receive the same compensation as the underpayers. What would a government fund have had to put in excess of what is in the financial bill on public insurance so that it could be? What do the Parliament have to add to billions of people so that older ones and poor ones will enjoy the same benefits as others in the country? I would also like to ask the secretary of the United Nations about the rights of disabled people. I can't see that there are no budgets for that next year. Clearly, a number of projects must be handled if the contract is to be valid and used as resources. So I simply ask the minister if he does not stand to validate the treaty next year. We're having the last countries on the line to complete this project, and I'm surprised that there's no financial resources in the bill that when I'm seen to make sure it will be successful next year. Then I must ask the minister if I have heard it correctly that she was justifying that this relatively large - scale contribution to social renting, 400 apartments in a total term that now has the least known in recent decades in Iceland's history, will be funded by cutting interest on interest. Did I hear correctly that the minister was justifying that there were reasonable arguments behind it? There, money limits are held between the years and the people who have been buying houses in difficult circumstances after a crash, they cannot be sure that the growth benefits they proposed will be fundamental in their plans from one year to the next. [[The president calls.]] Is the minister ordering that this is the way of young people who are trying to buy housing now?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u204	A respectable president. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator needs to see what he hears. What I simply pointed out was that by the actions of the government, the correction, the home's debt has improved substantially beyond what we even dared to predict when introducing the correction, and that's very positive. On the other hand, there is a reason why we believe that there is a great need to take action with those who are in the tenure, just as we promised in connection with the correction and have made promises to the labour markets. I also pointed out that now that the bill has come into the treatment of the council, it is important that individual teams and senators have a fine opportunity to pass through the bill in weeks and months. Regarding a question about the United Nations Convention, yes, it is the government's purpose to validate it, and we have been working on it. Interior Minister will provide it a bill and will have his Constitution bill on the basis of changing laws in accordance with the agreement. Then we have a budget, i.e. We're particularly concerned, the work programme in the case of disabled persons, the to-do we have, and when compared with what came into the implementation program during the last term, we're talking about a substantial increase in the amount of money being made up of the earmarks of the project. Hv. A senator asked about the calculations if we were to do something else, it's logical to the financial bill how that figure is listed in this percentage. It shows that improvements are in accordance with laws on social security requiring that the bills improve social security will change annually according to individual budgets and take into account pay development. The above percentage increase, 9.4%, will take into account both the current year and the next year's pay development. [[The president calls.]] Other peaks that have occurred at the beginning of 2015 and 2014 are also followed as early as 2014. A senator can examine himself. But I'm sure, and I'm sure a financial committee can request that it be calculated specifically if there is any interest in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u205	A respectable president. Should I believe that a health minister does not know how much it would cost to let the elderly and the desperate enjoy the same quality that others enjoy in the country? Has it not even been calculated in the welfare department that has been discussed all over the world in every class of the past few days? Among other things, elderly people have noted that during the present year public employees are getting from a government fund, various groups, amenial compensation from May 1, and that's a good thing. They get checks on it, no matter what the law says, because they simply have the right to their credits. The elderly and the desperate have asked: " Why don't we get those dresser improvements back on May 1 again? Should I believe that the welfare minister did not even calculate what would cost him, let alone a requirement for the minister of finance or the government that those who are truly her clients, pensioners, would get those benefits in the current year? Also, does the minister not know how much it would cost in 2016 to give elderly and desperate ones the same compensation as the lowest wage? It hasn't been calculated at the Ministry, either? I just refuse to believe that we were there, that I lived in the most happy faith. A minister of Eygló Harðardóttir would have fought with a point and an egg for the benefit of groups. I believed in her well - meaning that she spoke their language, sometimes to their deaf ears in the government. But has this requirement not been made? Has it not even been calculated as to what justice would cost in the Ministry itself?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u206	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar once again before his speech and emphasis. We're gonna go for a second. How important it is to consider the country's pension recipients! We see a lot of money in the budget is going to go up social security and unemployment insurance so that whether we talk about charges or percentages, I think it's almost possible to say that we haven't seen anything like it. This number is calculated clearly in the bill as we take into account the development of pay both in the current year and in the next. Hv. A senator also knows very well so that a review of the social security will be carried out on major changes in the social security system. The older citizens' union and the Economic Community have emphasized the need to complete this work, and we are going to enforce it for changes in the amount and benefits of social security.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u207	A respectable president. I don't intend to keep a long number here, but I have to agree with them why. A senator who asked the highest. Minister on these matters, regarding the lack of room for the Ministry analysis of these objects. It must, of course, draw attention to the fact that this is the case in view of the intense appeal and discussion in the community. After this discussion today, the minister must ask that it be done. At the end of this discussion, I'd like to introduce to you that a minister has spoken a lot about performing with a variety of housing products and talking about the need. It's certainly the most important thing here in the big capital area. I must ask, What are the bills of the bills of the bills against the country's settlements? Is there any specific support for inhabitants and/or rural areas, e.g. building buildings in the country area? If you build a house, let's just say at my house, then that's about where I'm moving into it, then the prices may be 20 to 30% because real estate is so low. It is so far from the actual cost of building that it is not built. Farmers do not build, individuals do not build, nor do those who may be in this business, carpenters, and others because they are so costly and would be so expensive that people do not trust in it. Therefore, when the market is not available, you must ask yourself, " Is it really working? ' So I'd like to ask if it's the highest. The minister and the government have any plans to support the home building in the country where the market leaders are disloyal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u208	A respectable president. Thank you. Senator Björk Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for the question. As with housing work, we have no exception to the area of the country, as is the case with other rural areas here in the capital area. It is true, however, that the senator points out that in some places it has almost been so that once you open the door for the first time and move in, the building of the house has fallen. I refer to Article 2. in the government declaration on housing issues and the growth of practical and inexpensive apartments. I think it is extremely important to look for ways to build as practical as possible when it comes to buildings on the land. I've already had a good meeting with members of the rural community in the West, I've heard from several rural groups, e.g. To the Sunfells, to the South, and to the north. A special statement is now being made that encourages us to speak specifically to the Northern Parliament about the housing arrangements there. I've always considered that we have to make sure that our rural communities around the country can use the resources we offer. However, I'm going to be very clear in this regard, I think that then a good analysis must be made of the real need for such housing in the affected areas, that we are not about to take another spin that ends by that we still need to activate the reserve of housing, which in fact has not yet completed our work fully. Some rural communities are in the odd position of having a certain housing shortage at the same time as they have a large amount of housing, but this housing is too large, and it has been maligned or mistaken for building it. This is related to the fact that I'm expected to have to provide a bill for the release of certain cases at the end of the last Parliament associated with the housing reserve so that this case can be completed against several rural communities around the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u209	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I agree with what she said here at the end of the reserve. Certainly, many homes were built at their time. That was the time that was up there. That doesn't make it any easier for her to know as well as I do that in many places, this job structure is a cleaning complex. As mentioned earlier today, people not even have jobs, they need teachers, or others, but they do not have accommodations. It's not all out of tourism, that's partly because of what I mentioned earlier that it needs more housing. I didn't feel that I had a clear answer to this question. It is not merely that rural society dwells but whether individuals can be dealt with if they decide to build. Is there anything we can do to adjust that position? It's wrong that this is the way it is, that real estate evaluations and property prices are in the way of the country's population. I'm sure there isn't one simple solution, I'm not asking for it like that here, but it's something that we need to wonder about. Therefore, it is very important not to keep out of the community. It was mentioned that the North Council had contacted them. Of course, it's a question of course, if our communities are allowed to get a formal discussion about this, now I don't know if it has been, it would be interesting to know because a minister calls for a diagnosis of need to be asked, if they should add to it. Since I've been going around, even. Northern Arnesf, lacks housing, and this is not because it is rented out or something but because more property is needed. [[The president calls.]] The important thing is that our rural society knows them because they have to submit an analysis of need.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u210	A respectable president. Thank you for the senator. In many ways, I'd rather view this as a request or encouragement and tips to work together with the European Union. Also, I think it's important for me to be the minister of the jury to make sure that we don't forget only to consider that large communities, but also to think about the small communities and their positions. We've talked to various societies around the country, and we've assumed that we'll continue to do so. I'd like to reiterate what I mentioned before, I may not be able to mention it too often, and there's a lot of things I'm having on my mind for putting so much emphasis on it, but it's practical. How we can reach the cost of construction is of utmost importance at the expense and the amount of money we have to take to finance the household's expenses. We know Iceland's budget is high. One of the things that rural society has to deal with are the loans and the fact that they did not build practically, not the right types of apartments. Today, some rural communities have been very difficult for many societies. There's something else I wanted to say specifically. It's interesting for us to think about one thing after another, as we've been doing, and we're going to work really well at it, but that's the business of the house. We have a cold area in this country where people do not benefit from cheap electricity and heat, such as people in the capital area and in most areas around the country. There are certain areas where this is not appropriate. The question is, Can we make sure that we save also the house we are building? Is there any way that we can do that? [[The president calls.]] Here, too, ideas from the northern countries can be used because they have a much higher cost than we do here in the capital area when it comes to these teams.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u211	A respectable president. I'm here to explain the aspects of the Ministry of Education and Culture. The Minister of Economic Affairs has already discussed the bill in general and covered it overall, but the total budget of the Ministry of Education and Culture in 2016 is estimated to be 87.5 billion. on the driver's base. The amount of 9.5 billion can be reduced. but they're worth 10.9% of the Ministry's total fees. Costs over my income are less than 77.9 billion bucks. and some 72 billion dollars. funded by direct contribution from the state's funds and 5.9 billion dollars. Collectors of state income. In the bill the expenses of the Education and Culture Ministry of 2.2 billion on the solid budget of 2016 increase by 3%, but also taking into account the impact of public prices and ploughs, expenses increase by 5 billion dollars. between years of age or corresponding to a 6.8% increase in expenses due to available commitments. Paving expenses during 2016 is 2.3 billion dollars. and to new projects, or the budget range, devoted to over 1 billion dollars. The Ministry's budget was less than 1.5 billion. and the maintenance Scenario was 426 billion. K. and used the Ministry's budget range to meet the requirements and to lower the annual budget and become over 1 billion dollars. There are some 1,2 billion reductions. For temporary decommissioned tasks. Other changes are pay and prices, total 2.8 billion. Enrollment in the bill of budgetary projects for the Ministry of Education and Culture is defined by endeavoring to protect legal projects, infrastructure and key institutions. For one thing, this affects the way it is being carried out to meet the requirements of the Ministry in preparing the bill. Increased priorities are put in place, thus endeavoring to strengthen the network of the institutions of the Ministry and to increase harmony between the requirements for the services expected of them and the funds provided for the operation. At a university level, the overall contribution to the seminar is expected to increase by 1.5 billion, apart from changing prices. The main increases are contributions from the research fund and the infrastructure of about 1 billion. On the basis of the Work Programme of the Scientific and Technical Council for 2015/2016. Increase by 430 billion. K. has to do with the plans for sponsorship of college institutions with an increase in the individual calculus of a university model. The Ministry is now developing a comprehensive policy for the next five years of university and science, and policy will discuss the different aspects of higher education, research and innovation, and major institutions under the control or agreements. The policy, in turn, will be presented with the basis of studies and studies in colleges, research institutions, and knowledge centres, which receive funding for the Ministry but will also be discussed with the role and office of Iceland's Research Centres and the Credit Fund of Icelandic students. The Ministry aims to publish the fall of 2015 base document that sheds light on the activities of the university and science system and is seeking to define its major factors within and outside. In high school, total contributions to the seminar are expected to decline from the current budget by 58.9 million. K. except for remuneration and remuneration, but more than 1.3 billion. The main increases to the jury are 100 million. K. contributes to operating high school, 135 million. K. ... toimprovementof future music courses and 200 million. K. a donation that is made in accordance with the Government's declaration of action related to collective labour agreements aimed at strengthening the ever-growing educational centres, educational opportunities for students 25 years of age and older, and the work-off fund. The contribution to high school goes up by a total of 200 million. One is 100 million. K. increase in the budget of the Ministry of Education and Culture and, on the other hand, 100 million. K. Transmission of the final part of the high school phase. At the same time, the average number of seniors in high school is expected from the current year. Transient contributions to $370 billion. K. falling down. There's a total of 265 million. K. temporary contributions to construction at the Southern High School of Education, funded for the current year. In the general school media, total donations are expected to increase by 38.7 million from current budgets, except for pay and prices, but at 48.9 million. K. This increase is mainly explained by the transfer of donations to the new institution, the National Institute of Education, which is under the topic category of the elementary school. In cultures, sports and youth, the overall budget is increasing by 233 million. K. except for pay and prices change, but there's a total of 288,4 million. K. The bill suggests that contributions to culture, art, sports, and youth are raised by 716.9 million. K. In turn, temporary contributions, a total of 483.9 billion are planned. K., fall down. The major increases are over 100 million. K. to strengthen the position of seven cultures, 250 million contributions to funding cultural and artistic funds, and 120 million. K. ... ina movie Fund. Then more than 120 million are suggested. K. increase to sports and youth and, finally, about 250 million. K. to various contracts and projects. A respectable president. I would especially like to call attention to the growths presented here for science and research. This enormous sum of money, including the research fund, is being laid up for a future economic application. I believe that we can all agree on this, and I know that the council is united in the importance of this project, and I'm glad that it has now been successful to finance this great parish, both in the research fund and in the Technical Development Fund. This is a foundation for a major interest in innovation in Icelandic economy.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u212	A respectable president. There are a number of subjects involved in this global Ministry. I'm still going to take one out and say the bottom line. Minister of his closing words earlier. It is a joy to see what has become of the government's attitude toward technology and evolution and to be more involved. I'm glad, then, that we have come to have a parapolitic agreement on the importance of such investments. I want to stay under budget because of advanced education for people over 25 years of age. I've had many talks at the highest. During the past year, a minister of that matter decided to stop paying for students 25 years of age and older in high school. A statement made in the production of collective agreements from spring to spring contained a promise of 200 million dollars in the workplace fund that I celebrate and then a contribution to increased study program for people over 25 years of age. The budget bill reveals the switch between this and the further education being more than 105 million. However, it is very difficult for us senators to recognize from the budgetary bill how it will be actually spent and how it will be divided, as well as whether this is a wise provision for money, or whether it would have been better to maintain an arrangement and to keep high schools open to people over 25 years of age and pay for their education there. It is stated in the bill that the number of graduates in Keili, who are not educated, does not reveal the number of years in primary education. It is said that this school receives a contribution from the budget in the subject field of high school. When you look at the breakdown of the secondary educational team, Keilir is not identified there. It is therefore impossible to grasp, for example, what Keilir is getting into his share or how this 105 million is divided between the individual secretaries. That's why I wanted to ask the highest. Minister if he can give us a report on how this 105 million will be divided and what the cost will be, what the plan is for a number of students in this study.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u213	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the inquiry and the speech. First, I'd like to say that the increase planned on the bill for research and science is not a meaning of government reversal, it's evidence that we are now on better budgets to add to the work and that we can do so on a good foundation. This is not an unpublished campaign impenetrable, but it is here made ready on the basis of powerful government funds. This is important and reflects the will of the government and the general will of the council. I think we can agree on that. This is a significant increase in the number of languages involved. For the so - called 25 - year rule, I would like to reiterate that this is basically the same arrangement that we see in Sweden and the Norwegian people. The Norwegian model I know of. A senator is very interested. It has the exact same arrangement for adult education as for the role of high school. We also know, and we have studies, that when it comes to those over 20 years of age who are in high school, the largest exits in that group are to be expected because they are more suitable for the regular high school than for adults. Of course, the self - education centers discussed here are better able to welcome back people who have grown up and then the university theories. In terms of the export and exchange of these funds, it is suggested that after some cases the ever-improvement centre will be increased, including in view of the demand for study. Then we'll have time to add to them, including as we learn more about the extent to which this program is being pursued. Then I'd like to mention to Keili that it is based on a prepared donation for each student. The contribution to the students there is not based on a calculus.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u214	A respectable president. I expect that afterward, with the highest answers. Ministers that we get a better break-up on how to protect this 105 million and how much is expected to go to a permanent education center and how much is to go to Keisis. It is of great interest, even if it is based on a treatable donation, that you do not see it separately in a financial bill and can realize what is actually paying for it. For the 25-year rule, I'll just have to say, even though I'm an amateur about many Norwegian things, I'm not that I want everything foreign up there without any observation. There is, of course, an Icelandic education system has a special status, and much of that special status is because people have left high school, gained experience in a job market, and returned to high school with that experience. This, for example, is considered one of the main pioneers in Iceland. I can list a few of the executive executive companies in the country who have exactly owned this development path. So it is not wise to accept this possibility of going to high school and sharing knowledge, since I do not share that dream at all. Ministers that high school should be a uniform youth school where there is no professional experience and neither teachers nor students ever worked anywhere but in school. I don't think it's for our benefit, and I think it's going to turn a completely different education system. I would like to draw attention to the fact that there has also been a remarkable analysis on the part of our most skilled experts that we may be losing a valuable special position through these changes of the Minister. I call attention to the fact that this is a budget bill. This is a human capitalist case that has never been discussed here at the General Assembly, the Minister has never brought it into consideration here. Simply put, there are many valid reasons why it is successful for older and younger students to share schools rather than create a secondary school system for those who need or want to gain experience in a job market and then return to higher education. [[The president calls.]] This is of particular importance in the scattered areas where the meetings of younger and older students have been the basis for the management of various smaller schools. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, I would like to say: We need to be accepted here by the minister on behalf of the council's hearing of continued instruction and arrangements so that the General Assembly of Iceland can bless or refuse this special inspection. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u215	A respectable president. You're absolutely right. A senator in Icelandic education, and especially the high school system, has some special advantages. We sit on the bottom compared to other OECDs when it comes to a course of study. In other words, like a bang. In fact, a senator thinks it's a special option for the system, we have the lowest percentage of those who finish high school on time, i.e. at the time the study should take. That's what I think, a respectable president, not a specific sign of strength.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u216	That's not necessarily a sign of weakness.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u217	Here's what we call a what. A senator insists that this is not necessarily a sign of weakness. Has a what? A senator realizes that Iceland is in that strange position in regard to the university system - but that is logically related to these figures - that no one is known as high college graduates as this in Iceland? The average graduate from college graduates with a BA or BS degree when they're in their early 30's in Iceland, and that's some kind of a record. What would this have been doing with produce in the land? In case of a moment. A senator would agree that education is of any importance to them, so the sooner one acquires education and builds experience on top of education, the more likely it is to increase the production in society. [[Up front.]] Would it now be that way, a respectable president, that there is some link between us being the nation with the poorest education course at the high school, and having graduated with the BA and BS degrees that this same nation is in the position of producing a workforce 20% lower than in the countries where we live? May I add, more honored President, that the experience that other nations have of this is definitely being looked forward to. I don't think it's exemplary that we are the underdogs of others when it comes to training our young ones, that they learn later than others, and therefore can take less advantage of their education in a job market. A respectable president. Study options are not being shut down. Those 25 years of age and older - that means that three years of study have nine years to complete the study - can continue to pursue education. Their mind toward going to university, they can go through the ever - increasing education centres and then go through the academic accepteds and attend the studies they choose. However, there are no such restrictions on those who are going to the trade and toil. I've gone over this many times before. A senator, a respectable president, and I am convinced that this will gradually infiltrate.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u218	A respectable president. We don't share a vision of education, me and the highest. Minister, as indicated in his answer to the question of what. Senator Páll Árnason. I'm pretty much in agreement with what that senator spoke to. I want to talk to you about high school in the short time we have. I agree that I feel as if I were turning toward a certain resolve. I think it's worth thinking that this is a cut-off study at student levels, i.e. There is a decrease in academic values, in some schools at least, which is part of paying the highest price. Minister. For example, at the school we've talked about, the Grinch High School, the number of students should still be reduced despite the fact that the school is blowing off, despite the fact that it is taking in a lot more students and that it could have taken even more students. When the minister speaks of pursuing studies elsewhere, depending on other options, he must consider the cost. It's more expensive to go to a remote school or to a remote education center or something, and I don't think it's acceptable for him to equal it. As a result, I would like to ask the highest. Minister on the level of academic expenses. What accounts for the lack of funds by 27 million? Has the number of applications in the fund been reduced or should be affected individually? I'd also like to ask about music study. In school, it is stated that working on a general policy, can a minister tell us what he is going to do there? In regard to high school, there is a very important point that I think a minister needs to answer and that includes the relativity party. The study is shortened as the minister did through the budget, for as noted, it was not done according to formalities at the council, but what a professional effect on the shortening, i.e. decrease in the number of public jobs? It's not enough to get to the top. For example, if opportunities are at the same time reduced for students to come home and teach, a minister is educated and puts them out sooner. I find it very important to know if this has not gone through with the highest minds. Minister. It would be so interesting to know how many in the Ministry class, those who sit there, graduated at the proper time, as they say.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u219	A respectable president. First again, the 25th rule. With that. A senator mentioned it at the outset. I would like to review this: Studies show that in no high school student is as much out of school as 20 - year - old and older students who are in high school. Why should this be so? Yes, because high school is thus built up, with regard to study material, teaching methods, and approach, that the main level of activity has to do with those who are in their traditional high school years. That is to be expected. There is a reason why the nations to whom we look especially when we look at types or ideas about how to build up our system, e.g. Norwegians and Swedes have set up exactly the same rule we're talking about here. I think we should keep in mind that this is not an expert invention. Rather, we are looking to the experience of other nations. In regard to the academic cost of such training, it is also appropriate to look to the length of study time, the amount of time that can be completed through the ever - increasing education centres and university tenets in order to obtain permission to go to college, and the second, by going through the traditional high school route. That is why they need to be looked forward to having lost income or pay income because they have to study and then face a somewhat different picture. A senator draws up. For the short - term and professional implementation, I would like to first mention that high school arrangements are based on high school laws. It is not in financial matters that make decisions. They went through the council many years ago, that discussion was conducted there. For the number of teachers, the goal is not a number of teachers, the goal of education in the education system is the education of young people, children, university education, etc., the number of teachers is not a sign of whether our educational systems are successful or not, a respectable president. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u220	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. We don't share this, we're clear. Of course, the education system is for those who study there, but it is very special to hear a minister say that he wants to shut down schools for people who have problems, i.e. to those who for some reason are called disfellowshipped students. People are the ones who for some reason do not trust to complete their schooling at the right time or to be in continuous school, and they are just being pushed out. What do they think? V.E.G. Minister knows this, we both come from a small community where we know the situation. I'd like to ask if there's any reason to export this, because I hear that even in schools in the capital area, students who have even one year or three don't care to move on, they don't get to finish graduation. Then it is because students do not exist or school directors are told to take in according to the order we know and have often passed through, people who are 25 years old are dismissed, and it is done on this basis, according to the schoolmasters. I'd like to ask you another question, about the cultural agreements, whether they're unchanged or not. I'd like to ask if a minister thinks that the budget they're making would be sufficient for them to do here would be reduced, because there was, of course, put in extra money to support RUS's business during the current budget year. I find it interesting to know if it's the highest. Rather than continue to reduce the tax, a minister will make some changes because of RUS and increase in expenses or, rather, that the tax will not continue to be dropped.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u221	A respectable president. This expression is evicted from the school system, one who is a disfellowshipped student. First, I want to rephrase this: It's suggested that in a traditional book study that will take three years, students have nine years to complete it. For example, students in Sweden and Norway face the same issue. Then, when a person has grown up and has not taken advantage of this program, other study tools are available. In recent years we have been greatly increasing the budget for the ongoing education centers, actually at the same time that we cut to high school pretty hard. We know what I've mentioned here several times, that it's the after-school therapy, that at least seems to work, so the number of students 20 years of age and older is relatively much off. And should we not, more honored President, show a little more ambition in this regard, in terms of the resources for older ones rather than simply say, "You are all supposed to go out and go to school with those 16 years of age? ' Should we not show a little more ambition and respect for adults, setting up study and study tools that are suitable for adults, taking their experience into consideration, making special adjustments in this regard? With regard to the cultural agreements, that's what has to do. A senator knows, has made significant changes in the arrangement we have about them, and we have discussed here at the council. We will now see if the new arrangement is suitable or what it will be like in the years ahead, but I can say why. A senator to support the agreements is unchanged between years and years. In fact, this team will go on to a number of projects, resulting in an increase of 19 million in the joint, in which projects are being added and thus not actually increased. Of course, with the State Radio, there's a case that I know we're going to discuss here, which are the budget of the State Radio. I'd like to draw attention to the fact that this year's State Radio production figures were positive for the first six months, and it's good news that we've been able to get a connection to the business. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It is then another matter that I know that we will discuss at the council whether the money there is convenient or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u222	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister of education for the passage and is forever glad that more money has come into innovation and evolution, for as he said, it is essential that we build a good and powerful society to increase money to that end. I'd also like to take this opportunity and thank you very much. Education Minister for ensuring the operation of the University of Fish Technology in Grindavik, a very good and good recognition of the great work being done by the head of that school for the last ten years, to establish it. What a joy it is to have a regular land under his feet and nothing but a good thing to say! My colleagues have gone through education, it's enormous. I've said that before at the highest. Ministers that what could be put into place in his case is that he has had little consultation with externally with the making of all the educational changes. But it's just as it is. You can always fix it, and I hope it will be done in the future, at least you feel when you talk to people outside of little consultations. I would also like to come to another matter that may not be directly involved in education, but that is, the interpretation fund. I wondered if the Ministers think it's enough, the 29 million who are put in it, whether they would have been in the light of a better status of statehood, when they are returning more than 15 billion leftovers of government funds, to go to these matters, and to settle them once and for all, and to do this properly. I don't know what to use, I'm just saying properly. I can't imagine that each year there will be a riot between the interpretation fund and the need for people to fight for their rights. We're so far behind these North countries that it's kind of shameful. I was hoping to get to the highest. A minister would have handled these matters and would have changed them in view of the foregoing. I would've wanted to encourage the highest, too. A minister to look at it as he expands his job budget. Much has now been discussed about reformers and other matters along the streets, and we could have brought a large number of deaf people out of relief by adding to the job interpretation. I refer to an article that Daði Hreinsson, director of the Deaf, wrote a year ago that he made suggestions, and the Society, to a minister of education on how to handle these matters, but it would not have been answered. I'm asking the highest. Education Minister: Isn't he in agreement with me, would it not have been a good idea to resolve this matter once and for all so that we wouldn't have to go through this forever?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u223	A respectable president. So, first of all, I suggested this summer, on June 17, the White Book on Education, where I proposed a key point in my education policy. I had one 33 or 34 open meeting all over the country. At that meeting, some 1,500 people came to discuss these matters. Three special lock groups were set up, one on the course of study and one on the third on occupational and industrial studies. The groups associated were then assigned special consultation groups between the Ministry, Business Life, and the university community, the teachers of the organization, and all the others involved in these matters, and especially because those in the leading community were seated there in a special control group to ensure that they were most familiar with them. I believe that around the lock phase some 150 people who were working on the policy agenda there, etc. A respectable president. I refuse that these things were not addressed and planned for change. I'd also like to point out that policies, both on the part of my political party and, in fact, my former minister, have been a little back in time, in terms of study time. This has been very clear, and the 2008 high school laws include the approach we are discussing here regarding the study period. As for the interpretation fund, I'd like to mention that this summer's special funds flowed into the fund. It was based on the opinion of the director of the Center for Communications that a certain amount was missing so that the fund could carry out its work. The amount she mentioned was added to the fund. Is that enough? I don't especially expect that, just as I expect we'll be facing the challenge of increasing those contributions. In itself, all of us must be able to agree that we must go that way. But I would like to point out that the budget is granted in particular 10 million. K. for projects that include a translation of teaching material for elementary school, for Icelandic Sign Language and Mother's lesson, in fact, in bilingual language. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u224	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers and apologize if I have been wrong with consultation, but this is what you hear in society. That's what I do, I listen to people there. I can totally agree that the minister put out a white book, and then there's been a lot of debate over this reading process, but there's another matter. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of Music School. Today, there have been a small number of problems with music schools, tensions between local communities and the state. I'd like to ask him what the situation in this case is. Does that make it easier for you to break up in the winter? Does he see the final outcome coming? I got at least ten phone calls from the head of the music school this summer, at my vacation, it was all right, since they were knocking on that a universal and educational committee did something in the case. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on that. I thank you for the increased contributions to youth and sports, although I would like to mean that they should be at least twice as high. I think that everyone agrees with me in this, and especially now that the great victory power that strikes the nation in the progress of our citizens, that they could be put in much more money, and then I am especially looking for travel costs for practicers in a country that is enormously high - that the state should place over 800 million million. K. In this group of subjects, when you consider that the volunteer work in the sports movement is estimated from 12 billion to 13 billion. This is what I would have wanted to ask the highest. Secretary of the music school. Is there a conclusion in a matter that can be accepted for a long time? And whether he agrees with me in that we were allowed to add. I'm not talking about a new national stadium for our boys, even though they deserve everything.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u225	A respectable president. As for the music school, I have previously expressed my view that it is tragic that the local company of Reykjavík, the capital, interpreted the agreement made in 2011 of the above. Minister of education, as was done. It was designed to be clear on the part of the State, and it has been so understood by everyone else, to add the financial resources to the seminary. It was never that with that agreement, the party would formally take over to itself and the responsibility for it, for then the State would have had to make legal adjustments, changes in practices between the State and the local community. Companys have all the custody of the jury, they negotiate the purchase and the price of teachers, they hire a number of students and services, and so forth. This was done only to add funding to the seminary to meet the problem there. In fact, since that agreement was made, the State has added, and with nothing can be interpreted as some sort of recognition of the legal entity being in the hands of the State. I keep hoping that the city of Reykjavík will turn from its error and take pride in this suit and honor him, as well as the capital. I've said that in the past, and it's also attracted my attention to the former Supreme Court. Secretary of education, Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, has felt the same way with me in this agreement. Therefore, all of us must agree that the company of Reykjavík has to be in a different way than has been done. A respectable president. The work that has been taking place since spring is now being carried out on the opportunities between us and the local community, the Union of Iceland and the city of Reykjavík, to change arrangements for the music program. I hope that as soon as possible, I can bring a bill to fix the changing arrangements for these things. As far as sports matters are concerned, I'd like to mention that we're going to have a good time. A senator agrees greatly on the importance of this class. We added heavily to these funds for the travel fund, 15 million. A.K., and into the wealth of accomplishment, which lasted 70 billion. At a point, we added 30 million. K. Is that enough? I believe we need to carry on with that project, but there is at least a significant addition to what was before.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u226	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you a few questions to the highest level. Minister. First, I want to pick up the thread from what? paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson with regard to the sign code. I'd like to state specifically that I'm happy to see 16 million. K. Plus 10 million. K. contributes to the translation and translation of the study material. I think it is also very important that the Ministry recognizes its obligation to sign - language students. Though a small step is taken there, it is certainly important in history. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister of the arrangement that has been in the current year to divide the budget over the year so that it runs out repeatedly and causes the difficult situation that people cannot be interpreted until some weeks have ended. This has been very critical. First, I want to ask the highest. Ministers how he sees this arrangement into the future and especially in view of the judgment that fell to us on the rights to sign - language girls. Second, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister for the Museum of Nature. The fact is that we are still on one trip of 25 million. K. On the budget bill. There is no need for a long talk as to the value of Iceland's natural nature as part of their national identity as a magnet that attracts tourists and is the foundation of that great industry and, of course, an important basis for children's education and schooling. In a vast museum of nature, we could have information on life, land, weather, wind, and other things that could be attractive both to children and to young people, as well as to those who come here to see Iceland and enjoy it. I'd like to ask you what the future looks like. In this regard, a minister might ask him if he does not feel that it is time for him to appoint a parapolitan committee on the matter of some future view in this regard. Finally, I would like to ask if it is not intended to enforce the 2007 Natural Museum of Iceland and what the Minister's position would be for a display of the Pearl Museum. Finally, I have one more question to ask about the University of Iceland's 100th anniversary fund. First, where is he on the bill like it's submitted now? Second, what is involved in making donations into the fund into the future, how does the minister of those matters appear? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u227	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech and the questions. First, about the sign-signed Fund. The change from year to year was initially in response to the position where we faced the fact that the funds had run out even from the middle of the year. Then we were faced with the possibility that those in need of that service could have to wait for even months, if nothing had been done, without any new funds being received. The idea, then, was to try to divide it evenly over the year so that it spread in this way. The outcome of the sentence. A member of the council mentioned here is 76. y., the a-a- force, facing illness, disability, etc., requires the setting of a perennial rule which will pass the Constitution of the service, i.e. When to say yes and when to say no. We have experience with such procedures, for example, in the welfare of the general public service. I can say what. A senator who works at the Ministry is now, and I have prayed that it be tried as quickly as possible to shape such a rule so that it can be worked by. As for the Museum of Nature then, as it were. In his speech, Reykjavíkurburg, a senator mentioned the possibility of having such a showcase in the Pearl. I know we what we're doing. A senator wholeheartedly agrees that there is a difference between a showcase and a museum. There is much more work to be done in a museum than there is a show. It will not free us from the work we need to do in building a grave and good Museum of nature. I think that's a good idea. A member of the council mentioned here, whether to appoint a parapolitic committee in order to work on that matter. This is an enormous task. The anniversary fund is unchanged from what it was. [[The president calls.]] He's on the university team. I would like to point out that there is a significant increase in contributions to the University of Iceland, on the one hand to the school, while the contribution that goes through the research fund to further research, which is important to the university. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u228	President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. All I want to do is ask him to sharpen the answer more clearly to the sign - language girl and the agency for that service. First of all, I did so by the highest. A minister mentioned the need to shape a grammatical rule of the ministry and referred them to committee work, as I understood it, which was to shape such a system for well - being. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers how he understands and whether he distinguishes between general welfare services on the other hand and services on the right to use sign language in everyday life as a language of mother and of Icelandic Sign Language. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers for him, I am eager to say, political and moral understanding of this matter. Secondly, I'd like to ask, because the highest. A minister answered to the approximately a century's anniversary fund that it now lies inside the past, i.e. The figure wouldn't be visible per se, but if she were under the university team, I'd like to ask him to answer me more clearly about her vision of the fund as such. I just felt that the fund as such might not exist in his mind that the next year's budget was ended but that it was generally a matter of strengthening research and developing within the university. I ask for clear answers in this regard. Then I'd also like to ask about policy and future vision regarding what the chicks call them "U.S.A.'s research.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u229	A respectable president. First with regard to the interpretation fund, the judgment that fell in the summer we discussed was me and the other. Senator, interpretation of the 76th Team. the board that focuses on welfare services. So we need to act specifically because on the basis of that service is the right thing to do. On the other hand, I noticed that no reference was made to the b- team involved in education. It was at least an interesting approach to the judgment. Then, of course, in terms of the right to use the language, we must probably all agree that we want to see an increase in this material. I only refer to the manager of the Agency who listed a specific number that would be necessary for the fund to carry out its tasks. That number appeared, and we in the government responded by increasing its contribution. As for the future view of the century's anniversary fund, it is so my opinion that the most important thing is that the Scientific and Technical Council, where there is a number of Government Ministers at any given time, has developed a policy that the Icelandic university level should succeed in financing it to the level of what we see, for example, in other parts of the North countries. It is looked to the year 2020, if I remember correctly, as far as it goes. I think we have to approach this whole thing, i.e. We cannot take one university institution and say that we are going to raise it to that place, not to others. I think we have to do it over the whole line. Of course, this fund has its place and has its place, but I think the increase we have to take and is inevitable to attack in the years ahead must come through the approach. I think that's the perfect key. My time is running short, my esteemed president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u230	A respectable president. I want to focus at high school and ask the highest. Minister right into it. This is shown in the bill on page 18. 276 That the total budget for the topic party is down 58.9 million. K. from local budgets for which general pay and remuneration are considered to be appropriate. If the highest. A minister could simply review with us what is involved in the reduction, what is involved. Then I'd like to ask the highest. Minister related to the changes that occur at high school, i.e. that most seniors starting in most colleges, not all of them, this fall is only taking three years of study, making most schools offer only three years of study: Are you working on a plan to deal with them when two years of walking out? It is, then, likely, two years of walk that will graduate from high school together after three years. I'd like to know what plans men have made for it because it's probably going to be quite expensive, that young people are going to go to school somewhere else. I wondered, " Do I know how much cost it could be and how everything will be involved? ' I know I'm talking about the future, but when people are making big changes, and in advance it's known that they're important to discuss it. I'm calling for it, but I'm afraid I've felt a lack of it at the highest level. Minister to bring in such large cases and such massive changes. I don't think it's right that we're always discussing the nation's educational policy on money or money funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u231	A respectable president. First, in regard to the change in funding to high school, I would like to mention that it is being promoted to the 100 billion high school business. K. In fact, there are 100 million more. K. who come from the so - called top class of high school in the Ministry, that is a total of 200 billion. K. to raise the base of high school. Then you should state that there are 200 million. K. in addition to the advanced phase that goes to the ever-growing schools and then to the workforce that is elevated there. On the other hand, there comes a key question. A senator is being dropped 265 million. K. temporary contributions to one year due to construction at the Southland School for Training and 30 million. K. a temporary contribution of one year due to the costs of joint support in the East. This should explain that a key source for such a course should be explained. There was a senator. However, I would like to mention what's pleasant what's happening to us that in 2013, when we were making budgets for 2014, it was that way with the highly measured multistory bill of the vacancy that 20% was missing in funding so that we could keep the salary bar. Now in this financial bill of this given, in fact, with a warning at the discretion and its impact, there is a difference of 5%. That's what we've been getting into this. I think it was a huge deal. As for the cost of increasing students or larger groups that come out of the system after three years into the university, it is quite true that some cost will be due to this. The cost must then be associated with another one, i.e. saving the system. The most important and significant improvement in Icelandic society is an extension of the average career life span of educated people for a year. A report quickly shows the figures involved, but it must also be looked forward to a huge increase in college in recent years following the collapse. [[The president calls.]] We will then see changes so that the total number of students must be watched in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u232	A respectable president. I don't quite agree that we may always be watching the statues of high school on account of a buck and a dollar. I'm willing to look at it from the fact that we're adding the year to work, and from the possibility that at the same time, we can make high school more flexible, keep others on the subject, and all that, the professional aspect of the subject. I'd like to take a look at it and I'd like to have a look at it, and I'd like to have this conversation at the Hall, but not that it's all started and we haven't discussed it here. I have a feeling about this case that we're always discussing this with the financial work that I'm sorry about. Another thing I'd like to mention is that away from the money gate I asked about in the previous question, i.e. the protracts of such large river marches or two at the same time can affect these groups as well as with continued schooling, i.e. Their education history. It is always only a certain number of people who get into certain courses at the university or a specific area of high school after high school, and this can have a major impact on this group. I think we need to get off the professional side and educational opportunities of this group to look at it, too, because when such a large group comes out of high school, these people will walk on the same walls when it comes to the maximum number of students in various departments that many people dream of attending. I would like to have us at the next kind of conversation about how we deal with these things, not just the expense, but the professional aspect of the subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u233	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for such meditation. It's absolutely true that this isn't just about dollars and money, and unfortunately, I've felt that sometimes I'm trying to direct the discussion about the careers and studies in high school, it's only trying to save money when the other is obvious and the most important, that Iceland is coming from the position that we're the poorest student wind in OECD, there's no country that's got as bad a course of study as we do. Let me give you a name for a second. A senator says that only 45% of the students enrolled in the study - and that all the kids attending high school are now out of the years of high school - only 45% of those who started studying at that time finish their studies on average in four years. If we compare this with Dani, they'll get it up to 60%, so there's an abnormally small part of each year's course here that finishes the course at the right time. The problem. A senator brings up the number of people who come out of the year, so we get only 45% of each year's years up and finish the course at the right time. We should be somewhere around 60%. Of course, only that would create the problem. A senator mentions. So, when it comes to education, should we continue to live in such a terrible position as the submers of other nations? That it is much more common in this country than in all the countries we compare with in terms of standard of living that our young people disappear from school and come in much later so that their careers with full rights are shorter than in other countries? Why don't we try to break our way out of that position? It's absolutely necessary, it's been going on for so long, so long without any real action we've taken. We need to get out of the situation that the average age of graduates with the BU or BS degrees in the university system in Iceland is 30.6 years. This, of course, is unacceptable for us as a community. Education and science are the basis for today's economy, and if we are going to have a standard of living in this country that compares with what happens best, our education system might as well work out compared with what happens best. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u234	A respectable president. Now I'm coming to a speech, not to questions and answers to a minister. It's been a great discussion, especially today. Many things have been clarified, but I must say that I too have been very disappointed by various responses from the advisers and perhaps especially the attitude behind them. We set out in this discussion with us that there were men present or that they introduced themselves to one of the greatest welfare laws of all time. We've been through just fine how much reverse it is. How can these be the welfare laws of the land hospital that are cut down to a real value of some 90 million? How can this be a welfare law? How can it be a welfare law where no increase in S-labelled medicinal products is expected? People are very well aware of how health insurance agencies refuse because of financial exposure to medicines that could significantly improve their quality of life, e.g. to hepatitis C, so I'll give you just one example. Unfortunately, when it comes to the S-labelled medicinal products, we are also in a position where Iceland's Health Insurance Institute has adopted some kind of greeting on how many people can get some medicines. What kind of welfare community is that? What kind of welfare laws are they, since there is nothing left in these matters? It's such a misjudgment, a respectable president, that there had been half a lot. I'm also going to say that we scientists have already talked about the fact that once a decision has been made and negotiated that the minimum wage in the country will be in a few years, i.e. 2018, 300 yards. K. The same should be done with pensioners. This must be a normal requirement. It was handled fine yesterday in television news; there was an excellent comparison of the state's lowest wages and pensions. Of course, this will not work, and therefore, we as officers have proposed a resolution, hopefully to be agreed on by this council, to change it so that this will be observed. It is our duty, and it is our task that is here to make public money in a way that ensures that this is a society of people who live in decent terms. I also have to mention other factors, and we've done it here today. People come forward saying that they have welfare laws with special importance on housing matters. Here comes the minister of social and housing... and says he will speak for the government of the homes. I must say exactly as it is, a respectable president, not to take place in this financial bill that it is some particular government of the people, let alone some kind of welfare government. When people are going to take up the small task, a historically small task, to provide root - strength that will contribute to the construction of 400 apartments to 1.5 billion, they are taking the money - from whom? - from the interest system, from the young people who bought an apartment in 2010 to today, from the people who are in debt, the young people who are getting up a roof over their heads. From there it is being taken - 1.5 billion are removed from the growth reform system. Is it the government's welfare law? How do Christians prove this? They argue with this: Yes, we succeeded here on the correction of the mortgage, which has resulted in the reduction of debt and thus the improvement. It just doesn't work. There's trouble in this argument. If the evidence that man was under attack here was that there was a special failure to correct a man's case, should this correct the growth system? It just can't be. The growing relief system has been to support people who are buying homes. It was to be said: Yes, with the correction, we will slowly put down our growth reforming system and stop doing so. That is what humans are really doing, and that is what has been said during the discussion. People compare this with: Yes, we're correcting housing loans, and that's why we're adding up, and that's why we're not going to raise any criteria to the rhythm of change in the community, but we're just going to leave the interest criteria behind, and we're not going to let them follow any rhythms. This is what people are saying, but the correction is not merely to correct some conditional failure, as it has been defined. This replaces the adjustment. That's what men are saying. Instead of using values that are property and income, people use a completely different set of standards, such as those we know in correction. Large groups will not get anything or slowly fall out of the growth system. That's probably the plan, considering what's been said here today. Then people should be honest and say: " We're going to give up support because of shopping through the growing system and when the correction is done, nothing will be replaced. A respectable president. I feel like there's something missing, there's some terrible ornamental talk going on, and people say so much, they say they're the government of the households, but then they just do something else, they say they're putting up a welfare law, and then they just do something else. I think it's time for this government to act honestly, act like a clean right government that runs right, and puts up right. Then it'd just be clear. There are other things we don't like, e.g. That what is to be called the welfare law in them may be reduced by the ordain, i.e. contributes to the birth ordinary reserve of 221 million, which happens for the same reason, that there are no changes to the standards and roofs. As a result, there is a decrease. I have to say it just as it is, in terms of the birth stock, now is the time we have to add to it. It has become so demeaning that during the time, those who take the word of birth are faced with serious problems. We need at least... Let them follow their averages or create some proper standard for us. - No, you're just supposed to keep this frozen thing going, nothing's supposed to change. This will have serious consequences. This is what people say they do in the so - called welfare laws. The child's settlements should not raise any real value. I can also mention that the third year in a row, people are under construction on roads. Today's road events are a quarter of what they were in 2008. Today's road events are nearly half what they were in 2004. This is historically low in recent road and transport projects. That's too bad. I also have to say, a respectable president, that not only are we not sorry but I think it might do us quite seriously because there are so many tourists coming here that building and improving the road is a great security matter. No, this government is not interested in that. She will wait on that assignment. You can't wait on it forever. This may be the case with the fact that we haven't seen a single transport plan, no transport plan has gone through here. Perhaps that's why so little is being accomplished, there's no new development but money in a project adopted in the past government, just because there's no plan, there's no plan, there's no plan, there's no plan, and there's no vision. If there is no vision, if there is no plan, and if there is no plan, then it is understandable that there is no money.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u235	The president wants to state that he has received an invitation from the secretary of finance that he will not use his right to speak at the end of the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u236	Mr. President. I'm going to gather a few points at the end of the discussion of the budget. I'd like to reflect on the term that we'd like to use and have been widely used today, a baseless budget, and the way we can talk about a baseless budget or about 15 billion dollars. There will be a lack of financial resources when it comes to infrastructure, whether it is health, social security, education, or transportation. In addition, the bill will expect 4.5% of inflation next year, while only 3.78% of the prices will be updated, which means that the sites should not be fully added, which is likely to mean cut-off on the difference. And because inflation is rising, or expected to be, it must also mean that the banks get what they want while the public pays the bag with stolen loans. I'd like to review the small publication entitled Dates and Looks, which contains excellent diagrams, and that's a good point of view. There's been a series of discussions about the bigger bill and how uncanny it is. I have to agree with that, and I've talked about it before in this piano. On page 18. 46 reports that the basic balance of the state funds will only improve by 20 billion to 2019 C.E. It is only 0.2% of GDP, and to tell what the basics are, it is what we have between the regular government's activities to pay off debt and all other factors. This must mean that debt is not reduced by government management but through property sales. It is a striking table there that shows that the budget will only decrease 12 billion in the next four years, despite sworn declarations of great debt subsidies. Debts down very little on the dollar, and most likely because GDP is rising, as shown on page 6. Fifty. In terms of tax reductions, we have left greens and others here said that the state funds status could be even better if the action of the current government had not been taken when it took over, with a great loss of money for the government's funds. This continues to increase to 7.5 billion in the next year and 17 billion in the next two years. That means a total reduction of the income of a government budget to 25 billion over the next four years, so you must ask yourself how to deal with it. We know that in some ways subsidies decrease and tax returns. Then we must sell property, and we know the property of the Kingdom treasure. The cumulative tax reduction in the next year's election period is 36 billion, and there must be something that we need to discuss that private consumption is hardly even financing it all. When I talk about tax reductions, I would also like to discuss the lowest level in the income tax, which decreases overall by 0.18% 2017. That means those who get around 300 yards. K. pay is granted about 1,000 bucks. Those who get over 350. K. I'll get about 2,200 bucks. and those with 700 points. K. ... morethan $12,000. In his pocket. That's the equation of the income tax from this government. I'm much worried about the elements that decrease as a proportion of GDP, i.e. The regular operation of the state. Of course, we should have it in our hands. If I read it right from the bill, they'll be down 2.5% in the next four years and the primary costs will be reduced accordingly. It means human speaking for those who don't understand the income and the primary expenditure that we've come to spend much less of our joint income on a joint business, on the health, education system, etc. If this is going to work out, I think we'll have the slightest capital expenditure for all the northern countries, and maybe we'll go under Britain and other countries that have been the worst on the right politics. Investment will just hang out in 151/21.5% of gross domestic product. We're trying to reduce maintenance and, as I said, the business is shrinking, so it seems to be headed in the same direction, the government is going to pull down the cohesion and get out as much as that. There's been a good discussion of the priorities of spending. As I said at the outset, we're putting money here that's known to be inadequate. People still pay for each step in their medical care, so it is far from being financed. I agree that when a health minister says to put the health care first because it has been left behind. It is very important that she is on the move to deal with what might be in hospitals, a more expensive option. That doesn't make any difference, though, that there's a lot of money missing, and if we give 15 billion to the rest, it's not real left over when we have so much money, I think. The money paid by older citizens is to be raised as well as disability, for many of these people cannot improve their income by adding to their jobs. This, of course, is human rights. The Ministry of Justice presents a standard of living that too many of this group do not enjoy. That group is largely unsettled by the garden. Despite the 9.4% increase so far, the anti-inflammatory predictions account for more than half of that. This can be considered acceptable, so it is something you can well understand that people cannot respond. I'm also gonna have to come in on the rest of the house and agree with it with interest improvements. I wondered what this has been discussing, whether we're subsidizing debt to financial institutions. I have no idea now. I don't have long Congress experience, so I'm asking if there's any law or Regulation or something that interest between deposit and loans can become only a few percent, maybe we could prevent the growth of the country's economy. Now I don't know if that's a good way, but it could reduce the growth process, if that's what it's supposed to be. Our walk system calls for a lot of money, which unfortunately is not being handled on this bill except to a very small degree. I've got so many people worried that this has become a security issue that we're in front of, as well as the fact that it has a little business and individuals out of the scattered settlements in taking their business further and making something more. I mentioned it earlier that I went to Aarneshrepp in these days, and it's totally impossible. It is obvious that the road is almost impossible to drive into a tractor, which is the terrible thing. Of course, this is not something that we can repeatedly postpone into the future. We're supposed to deal with this now, already better, than to push it into the future. It's like everything else about priorities. What I think is that the big thing about this is that we have so much left over. We've talked about a lot of monopolitan incomes, such as subsidies and other uses for subsidies, and we agree that one of the originals and what we have to do is pay off the debt, but if we're going to make some money in spite of paying off the debt, that's really very small, as the federal debt goes down over the next few years, according to the black words that we've been doing here - we're going to put money on what's under payment. 15 billion in the drawer that can be distributed into the system must be what we prefer to do. It is impossible to talk about baseless financial laws when the infrastructure is overcrowded.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u237	A respectable president. We're about to finish the second day of 1st. ... abouta next year's fiscal bill. It's been a great talk. Yesterday we've been talking about the big mails, but today we've been discussing the seminaries. It's a bit special to take this discussion, 1 Corinthians 15: 58. Um... about hundreds of pages of paper that the senators are actually reading as soon as the discussion takes place. This reminds me a bit of what a former mayor, Jón Gnarr, used to do so well, would sometimes be like being in a bunch of readers that were just doing the spelling. Today, the discussion has been very good and 1st. She is, of course, an input of the bill to the committee. It is good to see that the members of the legal committee have followed closely and, of course, taken the discussion with them. But the debate today has sometimes gone down to the point, on hundreds of billions of budgets, that it's been discussed with budgets that may be 2 or 6 million, something like that, there's a little special debate over such a big deal. I find it difficult to discuss the matter without taking only on large mails because the financial bill and the distribution of capitals is the natural fuel in the whole public system. When we split up the conversation on the income side, i.e. how the state funds get, how the fees and taxes are worked, and so on, let's tear them apart like that, although it's useful for the council and the financial committee, for the expenses and services that the expenses really represent, the relationship is often broken. What we see in the budget is that progress is in society, and growing income is, of course, a positive sign after years of cuts and the quality of government funds, as well as the systems, the lawsuits that exist in the State and the responsibilities of the State. The budget describes the natural priorities of the government, the priorities of the government. What you can see on the income side is a policy or a decision, the priorities of the government to reduce income by reducing taxes, for example, customs, and, of course, must be linked priorities to the priorities shown in expenses. Of course, it is very positive to see an increase in the number of cases, but since our anxieties arise and what we have heard in the discussions about the seminaries today and in the discussions with the Ministers, many of our systems are long - term, the infrastructure is long - term, and it is very boring to see how little is put into investments, they are still to a minimum degree. That question may have to be viewed differently than it used to, since investments have been on such a minor scale for so long. The discussion that took a lot of time during the last session, the last session, on the health - care system and especially the Land Hospital, showed that the question is whether the injections here will be sufficient. I'd also like to introduce ourselves to the fact that we see a change in the tax environment. There is an invitation to reduce tax levels to income taxes from three to two. Then we're looking at the spending side of other teams, we're supposed to say, because we're using the tax system and the relief system as an equation. It seems that this tendency to improve the system, such as the growth system, the reform system for the elderly, and the desperate, is not to rise in the same way. It does not keep seawater against the income side, so we are seeing some movement that will be pleasant to observe during discussions on the committee and at 2nd. Besides, I think there's good reason to agree only with the voices you've heard from your community. Iceland's rural status accounts for about one third of public expenses. They are responsible for much of the public service and perhaps for the services that people often find on their own, which is next to the people. In many cases, the debate has been made that there is a need for periodic reviews of the income exchange, the state, and the rural society. We're seeing changes in government income, i.e. income of different strains, they're changing. We know that with the introduction of tourism, income from tourism is more likely to come through a cost tax. After many lean years, we know that capital tax will probably continue to rise. I encourage us to take a closer look at how these incomes are divided between the state and rural society, not because our rural communities are some people in a town that should be motivated by increased funds, but how we share the funds that are then behind the projects, behind the service to the citizens. I'd like to thank you very much for this discussion, but it's been very good, although, of course, it's not exhaustive at 1st. I believe and trust that a financial committee will take this discussion with them into the work of the Committee, and I wish her good work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u238	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend this discussion much, but I'm going to review some major factors. I just wanted to say that I find the strange discussion that has been about the housing and the interest benefits. Some of them what? Congress officials speak as if growth reform is the goal, like people feel better about what we raise that factor. No matter who he is, the purpose of housing is to help people to make their home secure. The reason for reducing growth is because people do not owe so much. It shows all numbers. It is a cause for rejoicing. The goal is not to provide much growth. The restorations came about because of distress and have not been successful. They promote penance and create wrong motivation. We've been in perfect error at housing in Iceland, we've been promoting high credit rates, a huge debt that has made it possible for people to suffer, whether they are with individuals or I'm not talking about in the community as a whole, it's a big problem, it's a negative property in the apartment, etc. We are to have a housing system where the goal is to help people to have and to be in a secure home. The discussion is completely meaningless when one speaks of growth improvements as a goal in itself. What a joy it is to see the trend in the downing of their homes'debts! That's what we should look at. This means that if a person or a home suffers a shock, he is more likely to be able to deal with it, not selling his home, and even sitting down with nothing. We're supposed to push up the savings, encourage people to save money before buying an apartment and helping people live in the apartment. Similarly, the people who choose or cannot find homes, we should make sure that they have resources for them so that they can have safe housing. There is an incomprehensible debate here. Parliaments agree that there is a particular goal for all to receive interest improvements. If it were all right here, we'd be in some dream world, then there wouldn't have to be any interest, because interest wouldn't sting people. We are far from being in that place, but we are going in the right direction. The big picture is this: We're down payment on debt and we're down payment on the public. Tolls are poor taxes. Tolls and the fees placed on imported products, such as those that are better off, are poor tax, and are at the most damaging to the poor. Why? They cannot afford to go abroad and buy cheap goods. How happy we are that we will be able to take these tolls and these charges! It will also strengthen our trade in the country, and if we strengthen the store in the country, we are creating more jobs and strengthening the international tourism because we are competing with foreign countries. A respectable president. I'm worried about the conversation here because I don't think any senators have anything to do with it. Government opposition has spoken of saving. I think every single one of them. A senator spoke about expenses. Everybody's talking about expenses. Although we're lowering the government debt, a respectable president, and we're leaving the position where interest costs are no longer higher than the sum of all donations in the Land Hospital and Health insurance, they still amount to 70 billion - 70 billion. A million. K. which we grow every year, at least next year. They don't accept pension bonds. In 2027 the Penitentiary Fund of the State will be gone. Then we will have to put another 28 billion each year into that fund. What does that mean? We are still in a place where we are organized to impair the standard of living for our children and our grandchildren. Nobody talks about it, nobody talks about it. There's no government spending so badly and so unnecessary that there's no sign of it, so much I know after having been hit. It's a legal committee. When it comes to these things, all you can say is, we need to raise our taxes. It's just the people in the country who pay these taxes. If they seriously think they can get to the richest people, I encourage men to check DV a few days ago or weeks ago. There were dozens of persons, very rich, and where are they, where are they paying taxes? Out of the country. Very rich people can choose where they live. The rate of taxation is largely on the average host that needs to be maintained. But it also has a choice, it can also go, and it will if we tax it too much. It is not fair or normal, or it is wise to tax people too much. On the contrary, we should tax them moderately. A respectable president. More investments in road affairs, more investments in general, in health, in basic services. - Yeah, let's just put it on, let's get on top of it, and let's do it. That means we have to cut somewhere else. To date, there has been no left-class political wish to do that. It has been referred to as "the production of sheep, " correctly pointing out that it is not good. Among other things, it is not clear how the trend has been in individual institutions, it is just not clear. Actually, that's how it is when you go over it, that's what I've been doing in a large part of the budget and I've tried to get them information through, it was at the time when men talk about cutting hours, I'm talking about with the last government, mainly taking down an investment and it was made difficult decisions in health, education, and elsewhere, but then there was a big increase in surveillance agencies, the Environmental Ministry Subsystems, individual cultural institutions, etc. We need to talk about these things. Is this our priority? Is that your priorities? Has the cuts been so great when we consider this all the way? It would be interesting to examine it all the way in. The problem with the development of the government's finances is that, as we've seen, it's very confusing. If they're going to hide the real development of individual institutions and trends in government spending, if that's what they're going to do, they've done it rather well. A respectable president. It's a big thing: It's not time for a lot of waste, it's not time. It's never been, but not least now. We need to pay off debts, federal debts, and pension bonds. People here often talk about our love for people, our children. Then let's do it. Priorities in the world that allow us to think for more time than our next year and priorities in such a way that we are creating a better future for our children. We do so by paying off debts. We do this by setting priorities for basic services. If we are to do so, that means that we need to replace it. Let us examine, then, how the developments have been in individual institutions and ask ourselves: " Is it necessary to have such an increase? Consider, too, what the institution does. Is this role really necessary if we want to set priorities? A respectable president. I'm ready for that job. I hope we can take that discussion, even if we do not agree on the basis of good information, facts. Although the discussion was a good one, I am deeply concerned that it was almost exclusively about the importance of spending more expenses. There's no time for extra expenses. That's a long way from doing it. We have much to do when it comes to paying off debts, and we have much to do in setting priorities for basic services. I hope that that's a way of getting along. If that doesn't work out, I hope we'll take it at least based on fact and not on emotion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-11-4.u239	A respectable president. I thank you for the two - day discussion that has been under way in 1st. budget 2016. It's been killed in many views. As we have been encouraged to a greater portion of the legal committee, we take these views and this work with us on the present financial work. It has the budget bill like other prime products, and it will likely be referred to the budget at the end of this discussion. It involves a routine committee job with guests, and the bill will also be sent out for review. I'm going to say in the end, a respectable president, that I look forward to the work that lies ahead and I look forward to an extremely good cooperation with a budget board on the contrary, as it has always been. I look forward to the job, reiterate it again, and I see it in the talks of senators and Ministers who have spoken here in the two days that there are exciting times ahead of the government. Although something can be corrected in the bill, I believe that after this discussion, there is a small difference to be made. There are now and there are now and then, as it happens and goes, and here are several classes at the council, but I have full faith that before long we will come to give up the budget for 2016 that everyone can be happy with. What we members of Congress need to consider is the highest national interest, and especially, as shown in talks today, to protect that we are not going along the way that was going in the past to owe a trust fund and to show irreprehensiveness by overemphasis in the administrations and projects of the State. The device must be available. I am its spokesman, and it will turn out to be the red thread of the future financial work.
