ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-16-65.u1	Borist has received a letter from the chairman of the Parliamentary Party for 2nd. Smoke. So, Vigdís Hauksdóttir, can't attend a meeting in the near future. Today, then, at General 1st, a deputy of the Future Party Arts of the District, Sveinbjörg Birna Sveinbjörnsdóttir's daughter. Sveinbjörg Birna Sveinbjörnsdóttir has taken his place before at the General Assembly, and she is welcome back to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-16-65.u2	Borist has received a letter from the Department of Economics requesting every appointment to give a written answer for the application of the letter. 8848 on payment on government markets, from the Svandís of Svavarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-16-65.u3	Before the program, the president considers it a reason to reiterate with members of the Parliament to agree on the use of laptops and iPads in the Senate Hall. It is permitted to use iPads at the Assembly Hall, and comments are not made in the use of small laptops. It has been the position of the Presidency Committee that large laptops in the small table space the senators have in the chamber, as well as a disturbance in the appeal of their keyboards.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-16-65.u4	To answer, financial and economic ministers, social and housing ministers, marine and agricultural ministers, and industrial and commercial ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-16-65.u5	A respectable president. Recently, from one member of the Independence Party, it was reported that the bill for the management of fish is fixed in the Parliament's Independence Party because it involves the provision of national property on the fishing grounds, the fundamental resource we are building on to a greater extent than that of others. The Senator remarked that Soviet change was included in this process. I ask the procurator of the Independence Party: Is this correct? Is it really so that a bill for the Management of Fishing Sit in the Independence Party? And is it really so that the Independence Party held that it does not hold the basic concept of national property on resources and the national community's share of the fish resources? Is it really so that the Independence Party does not consider itself bound by the protest that has taken place in recent years and decades, starting with the work of a resource committee under the direction of Jóhannes Nordalur that we should view the sea resource as the share of the nation? It's very important to get this straight. It's a little strange if the discussion takes place in some of the parties or their representatives, and it doesn't enter the Council. I believe it is only natural that if the Independence Party believes that in the concept of national possession of fish resources, he will allow the bill to enter the council, maintain his view in Congresss, work here, and try to see if it is a more serious matter for that decision.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-16-65.u6	Mr. President. In 1st. a law on the management of fishing says that crops in Iceland are a common country. There has been good reconciliation with this law. In recent years, it has been a significant point of reviewing this legal understanding in the constitution. I've supported that law in the constitution. Hence, there is no evidence that there is a disagreement between the government parties that the crops will remain in the common possession of the nation. On the other hand, when humans try to revise our fishing system and all this, it is only natural that we have a problem. There has been a basic thought in the work that a sea - out minister has directed to carry out the task so that the system could produce the most reconciliation. During the last term, the case was worked in a different way according to my opinion. All of this was more or less upset by the marine problem. The basic concept of the government was perhaps based on the thin fibers that were formed when the reconciliation committee was established and continued to follow it in order to achieve a broad solid solidarity. It's just a misunderstanding if it is claimed that the Independence Party is against 1st degree. legal about the control of fishing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-16-65.u7	A respectable president. If the head of the Independence Party means something by wanting to continue spinning on the thread used by the Conspiracy Committee during his last term, however, he must read the suggestions that had to be agreed on. Their core motive was national property of resources in the Constitution of the country. That is the key to bringing up the subject of reconciliation. Where is the initiative of the government parties in this matter? Where is the initiative of the Independence Party in this regard? We will also see that, at a meeting point of increasing prosperity, all of the nation's most advanced economic experts come and deliver us a message of a new fishing system, based on an expiration route, as the United States has repeatedly called. I am bound to ask, " What is the deal? ' On account of us in the United Nations it is clear that we will always stand by legal regulations that will strengthen the national property of the resource and we will call for the promise of an independent person to make a national possession of resources in a constitution. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-16-65.u8	Mr. President. I'm not going to participate in a discussion about a bill that's not yet mentioned, and I'm outside custody of another minister. It is a well - known debate about the independence party being opposed to Article 1. a song about the control of fish that he's always supported. Here we try to paint the picture that the Independence Party is also against the writing of similar regulations in a constitution. It's also wrong. That's all there is to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-16-65.u9	A respectable president. Prior to that weekend, a remarkable judgment in the Supreme Court fell, and it became very clear, concluding that a legal offense took place at the Council of Copenhagen in the autumn of 2008. The point is not to be traced back to the court, but this indicates that even if the collapse is far away, society, at least for the time of collapse, is at least one of Jehovah's Witnesses. I remember, it is very good to lead up to the outcome of a number of cases that would indicate a crime in the leading of the crash and the aftereffects of the crash. It is good to be judged, and it is good for a person to face the consequences of his actions, to get information on the surface. It is one matter that is also related to the Council of Copenhagen and that has been linked to the Council Bank, which has been mixed up and not finished, in this conference - we have not received, although members of the Parliament have called according to it, the matter of the matter - and it is a very controversial loan from Iceland to Copenhagen just prior to financial failures, due to the payment of much of the currency fund on the debt that was not to be returned to the people, public funds, probably cost some 40 billion dollars. damage to your loan. There is evidence to suggest that the bank's laws and regulations, procedures of action, were not followed in this process when the Council of Copenhagen was granted, in the conquistancy of the Council of Copenhagen, a problem loan. [[The president calls.]] For this occasion, when the judgment is falling, I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of finance: Is it not a reason for all to die in this matter? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] For example, why not make a telephone call to the local prime minister and then to the bank manager for these loans published? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-16-65.u10	Mr. President. I don't know how much of the loan referred to should be in some logical context of the decision made by the Supreme Court last week. But okay. The bank fell, and of course, at the council, the right to get an explanation of the events that led to the decision to lend money to the Council of Copenhagen. In fact, the only thing that at that time seemed loyal to you was to win the bets. I wonder if they did, compared with what governments were doing and depositors in other parts of Europe, only pretty good, especially when looking at how things have come true in other places. In fact, I believe during the last term, a financial committee went into this and I don't know how it was on the Secret Bank to give any answers. Then there are many who feel that unless this specific phone call is made, the matter will not be fully informed. But why not just ask those involved and the Sentencing Bank, the institutions involved? Why can't you trust the answer that comes from when everyone realizes that the government of those times did everything within their power to save the financial system and the interests of the Icelanders according to the circumstances? To me, the matter is relatively simple and not much more complicated than this. But, of course, at the council, the right to get an explanation, and I believe it has arrived.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-16-65.u11	A respectable president. The council members felt no doubt, no doubt, were doing all they could at the time to save the bank, no doubt. And to put matters in perspective only; The Council officials have now been sentenced to prison for what they were doing at exactly that time, in the fall of 2008. At that time, Iceland's Secret Bank was giving a huge loan to the Council of Copenhagen, the executives of Copenhagen. It became clear from the Senate review of last term that at least the bank's regulations on breaking the problem loans were the procedures of the bank. If the defence is just this that they thought they were doing what was right at the time, then the Supreme Court's recent judgment should show that it is not enough. [[The president calls.]] We need all the information in this case to resolve. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-16-65.u12	Mr. President. If people took the time to read what has been written these days, these months in other countries, I think it would be surprising to think that even large countries, such as the United States and Britain, did not allow rigid procedures to get in the way of right decisions at that time. The important thing was that those responsible for matters that were involved in the case. What I think is a much more persistent question because of the Supreme Court's conclusions last year, is the question, By the criminal way that the Supreme Court has discussed, the government has given additional information to bring back the bank to the rescue that could once again lead to the possible reform of the State's requirement for wearing outlets. There's something I think we should consider.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-16-65.u13	Mr. President. I want it to be directed in the beginning to the highest. Seafood and agricultural minister that he is about to bring this bill that is discussed here under a rose, the fishing bill. There was a lot of confusion during the last term, so there must be a lot of uncertainty now in society, and people are calling for this matter to be discussed. I'd like to discuss the mobilization of local fishing for foreign fishermen. The town government of Isafjörður has spent the last few years, one to two years, assigning duets to earmarks, such as Southern and Flats, to travelers who run sea fishing companies and are in the majority of foreign markets. This is said, as it is, because of the difficulties of these companies in obtaining quotas and justifying the introduction of these special settlements to these villages. Changes in fish control laws in 2011 included 300 tons of unquenchable fish for leisure fishing. I would like to inquire of a minister, if not yet, if he didn't renew the matter that was in the matter of temporary matters, since he began as a minister. Submarine boatmen have severely criticized this community administration of Isafjörg farms in a rural area designed for provision in the Southern part of this case and have written an open letter to the local government on these matters, that there are barriers to the general rules for delinquency. I'm asking the highest. Ministers, whether it is normal for the state to be particularly supportive of a foreign fishing business in this way, even though it is important, whether or not to have a special greeting for that activity. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-16-65.u14	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. Regarding what the senator originally mentioned, that there was uncertainty in the fishing road, I don't think there's any uncertainty about it. On the other hand, people like to make changes, as discussed in the previous inquiry here today. It is the basis for which I have strong emphasis on the widespread agreement that more groups than the governments are at peace with it. As far as I could hear, the director of the United States was opening up the idea that there were a lot of positive things going there; if there was a common understanding that the resource is in national possession, the strand created by men during the last term could be developed and continued into this ideal period. For the testimonial, I can't answer for such a single case. Here, based on national regulations, laws in the country, the rural population can have its own rules. If those rules are in harmony with the law, then, of course, there is nothing to be kept in this regard. If you have made comments on this, you will make such comments to the Department, which is often made, and you will review whether the rules of the local community are in harmony with the law or not. Where it's got it, like a bang. A senator said, for some year it is likely because the rules fit in with the law. In contrast, whether to be a special pot for this innovation, which is, of course, within the tourism service, is such an interesting subject that could be especially recorded and discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-16-65.u15	Mr. President. I think it's a bit of an empty answer in itself. V.E.G. When the laws I quoted were passed in 2011, a minister must know whether these 300 tons were still estimated to seafaring. He must also have a view of whether it is normal for the state to strengthen especially the foreign seafaring companies who serve here, with full respect for them and their activities. Of course, these companies are to be hired, but they are not to be taken from sources specifically supported by settlements due to difficulties in the relevant TV. I think it's a case of the highest magnitude. A minister should be interested in setting up his mind and seeing what is going on there and whether the government should not assign special means to this operation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-16-65.u16	A respectable president. I remember a time here during the last term when this distribution was being discussed, and the tremendous growth that appeared to be going on within these articles, that this was considered too low as there was, or this would limit the opportunity for companies to engage in this activity, if I remember correctly. Then I think I'll handle it correctly, but if it's wrong, let the senator know that it wasn't fully new. In terms of community intervention decision according to the communities - if they are compatible with the law and the rules, nothing can be put out on it, there's only law in this country. While a minister may have opinions about whether it is reasonable for any company to be enjoyed by the local community that falls into the community or not, he can, as the law says, intervene in it. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-16-65.u17	President. I am deeply concerned about the situation of poor people in this region. According to a report that came from the Department of Health in December 2013, there are several things I would like to consider at the highest level. Minister. The report says, with the permission of the president: It is evident, then, that a group of children live in poverty and difficult situations that need to be addressed with the view that lost opportunities in youth will not be improved later in life. International research shows that the consequences of poverty are damaging to people's health, resulting in social excommunication, poor quality of life, and more expensive, whether for long or less. Iceland is generally well - off in international comparison, yet there are too many homes under low income limits, such as 9.3% of Icelandic children living in low - income homes. There the homes of single - parent families are different, with 28% below low - income limits. In particular, a group of single mothers at high risk are in chronic poverty. Children who grow up in poverty are more likely to grow up to be poor adults and poor elderly ones. It has been noted that within a group of single mothers, the position of mothers of non - Israelite descent is at all worst, especially since they usually have a low social support network in this country. [...] The results of Iceland's research show that the long - term leaver who survives only the financial benefits of the government is having difficulty ensuring daily maintenance, drug release, or medical care for expenses, and thus living in poverty. The same is true of those who have provided for their long - term financial support by rural society and low - income workers who have high housing costs. So I'd like to ask the highest. A minister to see if the government, state, and local organisations have established a time-to-day strategy for overworking poverty in Iceland, as requested in a report on the welfare of the Agency.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-16-65.u18	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir for the inquiry. I know we're concerned about this group, the group that lives with the greatest poverty in Iceland. When the first welfare watch returned, this was one of the suggestions she made for the minister. Following the decision to reinvigorate the welfare work, I decided to change only the focus of my new welfare care department and to want them to offer suggestions that were particularly relevant to the poorest group in the community. New welfare activities have recently produced the first suggestions on this group and there are suggestions on child development and child insurance, minimal progress criteria, housing services; basic services, coordination, that there will be one co-ordination candidate for issues relating to the rural areas, and it is also emphasized to work with free partners to handle this project. The well - care department continues to work on this project, and I was also in the process of accepting the proposals that were being made by the Family Policy Committee, which gave special attention to the children's family. I would like to use this opportunity to thank the welfare watch especially for the work that has come along and is published four times. It's basically first because we're pooled how people's place is based on social factors, and that's what numbers are. A senator just referred to him. They're coming out there. We now have much better information, so we can better direct action toward those who truly need it. I think we've seen a sample of it on the last budget, where income targets are being changed on child reform as well as on growth improvements.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-16-65.u19	President. I appreciate the answers, but I'm calling to see if there's a scheduled schedule. I'm also very worried about micromaths. I am deeply concerned about how the public's involvement in drug cost has increased, and I know so many people who can't afford to take their medication out. I know so many people, and I get letters every day from people who don't survive the benefits they're entitled to out of the month. In the middle of a month, people are beginning to worry about not being able to solve their medication, not being able to offer their children a standard of living that we should offer to all in this country. I wish to receive better answers. I'm glad that other welfare services are on, but that's the whole year that's been lost. I wish to receive a clearer answer to these suggestions and how to respond in the form of a law. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-16-65.u20	A respectable president. I thank you again. Senator. I'm sorry, I can't say that one year has been lost because these suggestions have come up. They are in line with things we were doing with the budget for 2015, where we are trying to ensure that the government's support goes to those who have mentioned from hand to hand. It is mentioned here separately, as with the added medicine, whether it was at the 2nd or 3rd. The budget, about 150 million on the credit system. Also, it was for the first time in a long time that some 72 million came into the business of social assistance with people from pharmaceutical purchases at the insurance clinic. Then we're going over these suggestions that I mentioned on the table. I have focused on watching the premises because I think high housing costs are killing this group the most. It's quite settled, and it's quite time for them bills to come into this council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-16-65.u21	A respectable president. I wanted to ask the highest. A minister of ocean, whether the financial resources of the Oceanographic Institute are a threat to a significant national treasure creation, whether this is not so that a lack of hairy research would jeopardize our reaching the high hopes of the furturbatives. I asked if the increased funds for ocean research could not have provided us with information on fur earlier, provided us with additional parsleys earlier, and used the ships that were available in January much sooner to gain fur, whether or not they could now be upset. I'm asking if this will underscore the need for us to spend more money on fishing research, to the Marine Research Institute, to ensure that valuables like these are at stake on land. What's that gonna cost us as a national farm, the highest. Minister, if you don't get a hold of 100 grand. a ton of fur in this season? Would it not have been more reasonable to slow down the fishing costs and to try to make them feel like fishing in the country and try to help us get as much valuable as possible on land for the fishing, for the sailors, for the settlements, for the state's funds, and for society all?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-16-65.u22	A respectable president. Thanks for the inquiry. It is interesting, especially in the light of the fact that a hairy person behaves in a somewhat different way than usual. In fact, the hairy thing is a very different tool, and it has been in fact over the decades. We took a rather deep discussion at our last assembly about the long, long - term financial well - being of the Oceanographic Institute. So, what a joy it was that this year's partnership was achieved here at the council and on the budget board, with the initiatives of the Ministry and the High Commissioner for Marine Research, to provide a considerable amount of money this year than it did last year - if I remember correctly about 338 million, of which, of course, 150 of which are due to the whale count and the income of less than 30 million! Otherwise, there is a very detailed report on this case on the Ministry's Web, so I'm directed to the senators to study it, since it may be that a minister may not remember exactly all the numbers. But the increase from year to year in total funding was about 12.6%, so we did as much as possible. And if we're excluded from the 150 million singles in the whale count, there's an increase of 6.5% between years, of which over 100 million in the research on deforestation such as mackerel and fur, which I think paid off. Last year we also put money on a large amount of money, or 50 million, on hairy research so that we have done as much as we have done under these circumstances. It is clear, however, that the more information we have, the better information we have, the more reliable the decisions we make. We build it on the scientific foundation and are proud of it. No doubt it could also be mentioned that the weather has been exceptionally difficult to get out. It would have been reasonable to think that oceanographers might have taken some of those fishing vessels out to observe. [[The president calls.]] It would have been an inexpensive way to monitor the hairy skin than to send one ship, for it is difficult to find fur in all the ocean areas, to behave in a new way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-16-65.u23	A respectable president. A 6% increase in these terms is negligible in this context. We are talking tens of millions of dollars, we're talking about interests that depend on whether there will be growth in the economy in Iceland this year as hoped for. What we hear is that if men had had had had better information, they could have released their hairy box sooner and a new ship that, unfortunately, did not use it up to two weeks earlier than it did in order to catch them on land. I'm critical of the highest. Secretary of finance, too, for the way he has used funding for research, e.g. by saying goodbye to two private companies for a second hundred million in research, and the cost was only about 25 million. I don't feel comfortable handling the funds that were available for research in this area. I must ask the minister if it was not discussed in the government, when it was clear that we were raised in the economy because of our growth, that there was a lack of research, if anyone hadn't talked about shooting money right away and putting men to the test as soon as possible. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-16-65.u24	A respectable president. I reiterate my first answer, we reacted last year. That's right, I agree with you. The more we know the better, the more the scientific counsel we base on. A marine research agency has over 3 billion, 3.3 billion dollars, on the budget, if I remember correctly, the changes they have to make. Those in charge of the Habitat Institute weigh and determine priorities for what research is most important. Many studies are very important. Of course, it would be very good if we could examine everything and could answer everything, but that is not just the case, either in ocean research or in other areas of human life. We can't do everything, we have to tailor to growth. We've been trying to give as much support to the activities of the Marine Research Agency as possible last year, and we may well have to continue to do so. I agree with a leader that the activities of the Marine Research Agency are the basis for our ability to make wise decisions on the basis of scientific counseling. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-16-65.u25	A respectable president. I'm not asking this inquiry for no reason. Recently, January 28th, issue of the Ministry of Education was presented to a national theater council. Associating this, an Associator noted that four men and one woman were being appointed, the combination of the council. In fact, it had happened a little earlier. It appears to me then on the Department of Education - although it may be possible to be careful to have the latest information there because there is not yet an update to the administrative ship there - that four women are defenders, if the order is correct, according to that site, and one male. I want to talk to the highest. Minister. We have a law on equal positions between men and women. In the 15th. They say that on committees, councils, and governments by state and rural society, the proportion of sex being equal and not less than 40% for more than three agents. Two. The same articles state that when committees, councils, and government officials are appointed by both man and woman. A respectable president. I think it's a quick mistake - when we have such legislation and people say they're going to follow it - that we're here in 2015 to hear that there are four men and one woman being ordered. I don't give anything for explanations that because there's nominated agents out of town, it's more twisted, because they still seem to be able to put women in the deputy seat. It is also so that, as this article shows, men and women and ministers should be organized into a legal structure for the equal status of men and women, this 15th - century minister. g., about the equal proportion of men and women in committees, governments and advice. I have personally been in a position as a minister not to accept a form of appointment from any candidate unless there is a man and a woman to be met by the law. That's how it's done, Mr. Honorable President. I'd like to hear the highest. Ministers who handle the jury, how she intends to respond to this, that her fellow ministers in the government are violating equality laws in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-16-65.u26	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir for the inquiry. As the senator passed through them, according to Article 1. Section 15. track No. 10/2008, with equal positions and equal rights of women and men on commissions and government by state and rural society, make sure that the proportion of gender is equal and not less than 40% if more than three agents are represented. This is shown in 2 mg. Section 15. that when governments and rural groups are mentioned in committees, councils, and governments wish to be designated by both men and women. Only those requirements can be removed when objective reasons do not allow them to be adhered to. According to 1st mg. 7. Drama, No. 138/1998, appoints Ministers of Five Peoples Theatres. The France of the Icelandic actor appoints one representative, and the Icelandic director's Féggi team is named one, and three are nominated. According to the Ministry of Education, Ministers have appointed Birna Hafstein, president of the Icelandic actor's Social Association, to be the number one member of the National Theatre Board, to avoid the suggestion made by the company. By order of Birna, National Theatre, two women and three male members have a seat in the board. This will be as far as the Ministry of Education has seen in accord with Article 15. adapt to equal positions and equal rights for women and men. Each year an economist calls out a report from all the committees, councils, and governments. A 2014 report is not yet completed, but it will soon be called for information. Trends have been very positive in recent years, yet there are several examples of nonassigned committees. For example, if wrongly ordered and often under normal explanation, an equal office will ask for an explanation, e.g. if the committee is highly specialized. The report shows that the percentage of genders in all committees of advice in 2013 was 44% women and 56% men. The percentage of the sexes of nine committees appointed in 2013 was 48% women and 52% men. During 2008, when sexuality was brought into law, 43% of active committees were in line with sexuality, but in 2013 65% of the active committees were appointed according to Article 15. During 2013, the whole Ministry will reach a fixed share of the sexes, or 40% of the reference points, for the first time since the legislation was given in 2008. Surely, that should be a cause for rejoicing! In 2013, the Ministry of Ministry was as much involved in functional committees as was the only Ministry with more women than men in their committees, 51% women, and 49% men. In 2013, when referred to committees appointed in 2013, the equal sex ratio for the State Ministry of State is shared equally. The Ministry of Education and Culture and the Ministry of Health, 52% and 53% of women, had a high proportion of the sexes when it came to a new order. So for the first time since the legislation was given in 2008, I mentioned earlier, the whole Ministry of Ministry reached the assigned share of the sexes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-16-65.u27	A respectable president. I just want to come into this business and remind you of the group as the highest. In fact, the Minister of State, Ólöf Nordal, put together a group of members called an employee rather than a committee, it may be just the phrase, but it's a group that's about how parents should balance their place of care with children. It was the turning point, the four women, and one male. In itself, there seems to be no particular reason behind that order. We've been dealing with the same thing here at the council that we've been calling, I can't remember right now what it's called, which we've talked about, but it's three men of the European Council, yes, who have had a bad time putting women in, so we're dealing with this in the council as well. [[The Council of Europe]] I'd like to know about the groups or committees being given by the government, i.e. how the ratio between men and women is based on the individual issues involved. It seems that in the soft language the women are in more parts, but in other ways they can be. [[The president calls.]] It would be interesting to see that diagnosis.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-16-65.u28	A respectable president. It would also be interesting to add to that as well. Senator Bjarkey Gunnarsdóttir mentioned earlier, also seeing a sex exchange on what's paid for a committee seat, so I mention it here. Even though it's the highest. A minister has been saved for a corner after these violations of equality by the exchange of one candidate is not history in my opinion because it must go through the government's task force when they put in governments, committees, and government councils. It's their duty to obey the law. It wasn't done in this case. They are to be obtained from all appointments by men and women and then organized the board, the committee, or the staff so that the sex ratios are equal. In this case, the highest. Ministers saved by corners. This does not change, however, because the work process was ruined from the beginning and led to the conclusion that the law was broken, and that is what I find serious in this matter. That's why I'm gonna have to call for the highest. A minister leading the seminaries has a view of how her fellow ministers associate with equality laws. I'm sure we can get a hearing from the highest level. It belongs to a minister, and that's what I'm calling.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-16-65.u29	A respectable president. I thank you for the additional questions I received and the opinions of the senators who came in a pita. I just wanted to point out that it was shown in a report on February 4, that the group of workers mentioned here was about the equal formulation of children living in two homes, that the percentages of the sexes in the group were changed by the month - to - month conventions, and actually before the news article appeared in the newspaper regarding the change there. It's called after my examination. It is simply the same as everybody else's. I hope, who have served the minister's office, i.e. That we all abide by the law established by the Council. That is true of equality as well as of any other law. As noted above, the gender proportions report of the rights lab can be examined and the change has been positive. As mentioned above, in 2013 we met our goal that all the Ministry would reach the proposed share of the sex, or 40% of the reference point, for the first time since the legislation was set in 2008. I don't have information to deal with particular matters, but it's clear that since 2013 all the Ministry has achieved this goal. I would like to see that we tried to do even better, and it's what we're always trying to work at at the Ministry of Health, that we are equal to 50:50, women, and men. It is a joy to see that the effort is being made to ensure that this is done independently of the group.
