ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u1	Borist has received a letter from the State Department asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a letter on the subject. 1384, to prepare for new educational and private airports, from the Sagalis Svavarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u2	To answer, financial and economic secretary, education and cultural minister, environmental and resource ministers and Minister of state.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u3	A respectable president. In the kitchen calendars last night, the members of all classes discussed ways of improving the appearance of Congress, ensuring that we will achieve more success in the work, more fully satisfied with the main lines of Congress, and preventing the raw majority of the rules that have been used here for far too long. V.E.G. In his speech, a minister of finance was interested in various governmental changes that I am happy to hear about his support. Last night, on a live interview with the State Radio, we spoke to the prime minister of the evening's discussion, and then we got to the top. Prime Minister in my idea that the most important contribution we make to improve the Constitutional work would be that a third of the Parliament could be arranged into a national law. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. The secretary of finance whether he shares his feelings, whether we can work together over the next few weeks, that, along with what is being done on the basis of the Board of Directors on changes that include national property of resources, and the public's possibility of calling for national pay, we also secure this rights by one third of the members of Congress. In this way we can lay the groundwork for making contracts for political changes, which included shortening speech periods and other adjustments in the ethic work that would make it easier for the President's programme, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u4	Mr. President. Ideas that one third of the Parliament or one other proportion of the minority can send a case to national pay have been observed during and sometimes in the previous years of the council conflict. They've come out as I've experienced it because there's no right in the Constitution for the people of the country to call for matters here to be resolved on national terms. If such a right is transferred into the Constitution so that a certain percentage of voters can ask for national law from the Council in a manner similar to that of 26 gr. The constitution would be much less than a need for such a right for my part at the council. In the same way, I have to say that I felt that I had less reason to maintain what is found in the 26th chapter. The Constitution, the President's right to refer to the nation. Why else should we be concerned that such a right would not be there if a certain proportion of voters did not call for a national agreement? What, then, is the harm because the president does not have that authority? Why and under what circumstances should the president use a legal case if the nation does not call for it? What justification could the president use and refer to the application of a case under those circumstances? I also ask: When should one third of the Parliament use the right to use it when it has not yet been tested as to whether the number of voters calls for it? That's kind of my answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u5	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I agree with him that if in the constitution the regulations of a certain part of the nation's rights to call for a national bill and a smaller section of Congress to refer matters to national law, it is of course unlikely that they will continue to represent the legal rights of the President's court. Then he's unnecessary. I'm going to try and explain to the highest. A minister of what profit I see in that a third of the senators, in addition to one part of the country, may call for a national fee. It is the fact that this means that we support the Senate. We make sure that a government at any given time is seeking a greater level of solidarity on the matter. Otherwise, it does because it knows that the lesser part has this authority, is better prepared, and is tempted to get more than two thirds with her on the subject. As a result, during the council, we are detracted from the wolf crisis in which we are in the position of a public speaker, the sole instrument for control of the smaller section. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u6	Mr. President. There is no evidence that a smaller section of Congress can call for a national hearing, but all of this needs to be weighed against one another. Where such rights are available for distribution, as in Denmark, it has been heard to the complete exception of its use. Someone would say that it was because they sought the media. Yet, people there have dealt very strongly with certain issues. Let us also face the possibility of creating a temptation in difficult matters that must be resolved on the basis of a representative democracy and hanging over people's right to call out for national regulations on the matter. Then it may be tempting to refer to the people under certain circumstances, and this will not minimize the situation. But the point is, I don't think it's quite black and white, I just feel like it's a great reduction in the need for the particular rights once it's got it in my hands. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u7	Mr. President. I'd like to direct my inquiry to the highest level. Minister of the Interior, who handles transportation. It is the legal group that we members of the Parliament get all the most inquiries about, especially now that a twice - unsupervised transport program has been submitted. And just as a review of that, a four - year travel program was put forward here last year, at the end of March. She's got a lot of publicity from what she did. Environmental and Transport Committee. But I don't think that's what I remember about it. A new and revised four - year transport program was published by the highest level. Minister of state at the end of Congress, i.e. at the end of May. But now it's a bad time. The Environment and Transport Committee has completed its coverage. In fact, it suggests significant changes, significant improvements to the maximum strategy. A minister came forward. The smaller portion supports them, as far as I'm concerned, but suggests other improvements. So I'd like to ask the highest. A minister of answers to queries in view of the fact that we will not end this matter, and we know they're being asked for all over the country. I myself have gained a tremendous knowledge of road numbers through all these people's requests for a country that asks me what exactly to do with Routes 30 and Road 643, and so on. What I want to ask the highest. A minister in the first place: Will we expect this strategy to be submitted immediately in the fall so that it can be completed? And second, for this too is a considerable question: Should we not expect the highest. Will Ministers submit a revised strategy with additional parts, or will any new jobs be started in the Ministry to process the proposals of the greater part? I think it's important. At least that's what the busiest people in the country are thirsting to know.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u8	A respectable president. In fact, this is the third time that a transport program is put forward and that it cannot be accomplished. But when I spoke to her very late this spring, I apologized to the council for her lateness, that there is no guarantee that she could be delivered. Thus, on my part it was always clear, in view of the lateness of her appearance, that it would just as likely not succeed. As we know, significant amounts of money are being carried on by transportation, and in the transport program that was presented there was a significant addition to transport funding, especially in the latter part of the period. But that song is always on the motion of a transport plan that is never financed until the budget is approved. And maybe we'll see this better as the autumn months goes by and when the transport program that I organise in the early autumn is restored, we'll certainly be seeing at least what it looks like in 2016. It is very unlikely that I will submit a transport plan, at least in the first part of the period, with some requests in it that will not be successful. We know that transport requires a lot of investment. But all the wishes the people have and have expressed at the council and that I have heard, and I myself have strong wishes, I cannot fulfill in the suggestion I will make, that is perfectly clear. I believe, however, that when it comes out, and I really hope it will be very early in the autumn months, I will also be able to submit a twelve - year transport program. Then maybe you'll get a better view of this suit for the next few years. But I think it's important, and I think it would improve the fact that it rhymed better with government plans so that it's not some wishing list, it's a real plan for action to take.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u9	Mr. President. That's close to the highest. The Minister of the Interior Council has a very important case, which is the interaction between law and the other approved bodies of the Parliament with the budget. It has sometimes been a failure, and sometimes it has overpowered people, as shown by a recent hearing in a recent court that failed to interpret the Deaf in which there is governmental rights that cannot be said to be paid. I understand a clip at the top. The Minister of the state, who has this resolution for Congress, and then has to agree with the financial deliberation. Thank you very much. Minister for her answers and the information she gave here. Of course, it's a very shocking thing to say that this is the third delay of the transport process, as mentioned at the highest level. Minister. V.E.G. A minister also made it clear here that the plan should not be an intact list. Then I would like to ask: " Is a minister in agreement with the change that is more difficult? The Environment and Transport Committee proposed in the Committee? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u10	A respectable president. I agree with some of the changes made in the most part made, and I agree with other proposals that have been heard from various members of the council here and from local authorities and others. I just can't fulfill all the wishes that come out there, and certainly not next year. For example, we know the financial needs, not only of the road system, but of the ports as well. I can only mention, for example, that in this program 900 million were expected. K. in the 2016 docks. We know that most of the land's ports were built when there was a large growth in fishing management in the 1950's and were thawed at the time. Now the time has come for more and less all major ports in the country. These funds will not be sufficient for such things, so the need for money is so wide. We can also take a field of airports in many countries where there is also a great need for investment, so the system is large and expensive. It needs to be prioritised. But it is absolutely impossible for a minister of transport to be on all the requests that have been made.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u11	A respectable president. It has been like a rule of thumb in the Icelandic community for some time that if you want to allow a meeting, you will talk about the issues of the Reykjavík airport. At times, it has been observed in this hall that there has been a great deal of heat in a discussion of the location of the Reykjavík airport. I would like to try to have a calm, balanced, relaxed discussion about future prospects at the airport in the vicinity of Reykjavík or Reykjavík. Now, there is a very good and careful report from the Rackham Committee that reviews the main options. Of course, the report leaves a number of factors, such as the assumption that investments need to be made on national flights, and it may be good for the people and others who come here to work more closely between international and national flights. For example, many who use the domestic flight use it to make international flights. In view of this investment, according to the estimated increase in the number of tourists in the country, the Committee will conclude that the best option for airports is the best option. Of course, we won't be moving the airport there before the clock. 17 today, rather, it takes a little time, so the committee also assumes that there will be operations to strengthen the foundation of the Water Diversary Airport until that application. The report says that the best option for enlargement and weather conditions is in Whalesun, much the same as in the Hydromosis. I'd like to ask the highest. The Minister of Internal Affairs on her position on the report, how she feels about the results of the report, and what the next steps will be on the part of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u12	V.E.G. President. It is very important that this report is in place and the work of committees is completed. We know that there has been an ongoing dispute over the city's airport, such as a wind. A senator mentioned, and in many ways the matter has been very difficult in the capital and has also been a great hungover between the region and its never - to - be - good capital. We know that the matter has been very heavy. In this report by the Committee of Rackkas, I feel that I have a lot of long - term judgment on airports, which I believe is really important. I think that once an airline is organized, it must be looked to the huge investments underneath. They also need to look to the existing investments in the airport. Looking back to the State, the state runs a Cheflavík Airport. It represents significant investments there for some time, and it is not likely that the State will have to make significant investments at the Cheflavor airport. Thus, in view of the future as presented above, the state must also be viewed as having a very high financial commitment to international flights at the Cheflavour Airport. Until another airport is in place and will be ready, and this will be shown by the Committee of Rackham, of course, where it will be safely operating. Then it is my duty as the head of the airport in this country to ensure that there is safety and that it is fully clear. I won't think I'll be responsible for any discount on that subject while I'm sitting in this chair. This should be kept in mind. There is also the fact that the airport is in Reykjavík. We know everything. Now it's just time to take over these results, bring together the members of this case, and think on it for a long time, but always in mind that during this process, we have to be sure that Reykjavík's airport is secure. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u13	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. It's clear that, of course, there's a Reykjavík airport, it's not moving yet. However, they are working long - term, and they are also taking long - term action in the world organization of Reykjavík. I sometimes feel that this is what interests them to be forgotten, that the city wants to build its structure so that it becomes more dense, and it makes sense to me. It means a better way of life, a better way of life, and so forth. There's a lot of interest in this too, but the Rackham Commission has provided a report that I think is very important and balanced in this discussion all. I find it very interesting that, based on the investments needed to build the national flight, Hydromycin would not be used, it would be much more expensive to build an airport there, in the best way it would be to build it in the Washingun. [[The president calls.]] Can I ask for an attitude of the highest order? Minister only to the statement I feel is stated in the report?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u14	A respectable president. You see, there have been differing views between the state and the city in these airports. We know that the views of the more part in Reykjavík are very strong, and more, that the airport is removed from the Watermur, which is seen in a major organization, but the State has had other views. It has long been embarrassing, that I have felt, how badly men have been able to get together, even though there are differences in viewpoints. It always has to be that one person can't just control everything, there's gotta be another conclusion, I think. It is also very important to be honest about how things are and not try to hide them and paint them some other color. It is just so that the State's viewpoint has been that Reykjavík's airport is quite well paid, where it is until another airport is ready, whenever it becomes. Regarding what the senator specifically asked, it is also in the sense that international flights, like domestic flights, talk about how this might connect with one another. Then, too, we must look to the enormous investment that the Kingdom is currently in at the Cheflavour Airport. [[The president calls.]] The possibility of an investment is very narrow for some time, so it is very difficult for the state to intend to place an enormous amount of money on this and on the other hand, no matter how important it is, when we cannot guarantee it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u15	President. It is proper to remind you that the language of the nation itself is for the keeping of the people to the legislation. Hence, the right of the nation must be practical and active without any barriers. I'd like to ask the highest. The secretary of finance sees how much the nation needs to call for national pay and whether he considers other thresholds justifiable than, for example, 10% or 15% of the people can call for such. If the lawsuit also becomes the right of a third of the senators, it's the benefit of the Senate. At that time, the council must work more together on a parapolitic foundation, and a greater proportion need to have more consultation on major issues. This legal right is really just to improve the practice of Congress. These two tools are essentially different. It's the highest. A minister would agree with me on that? These tools have a very different purpose, and what is it that both tools become part of a constitution as part of the democratic celebration revealed by the kitchen - day talks? It allowed the will of nearly every group within the council to implement serious democratic reforms. In view of last night's speech, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to how he envisions the continuation of the constitution beyond the few recent developments.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u16	Mr. President. This is important, but at the same time, a brief discussion was a problem. I'm going to let me draw attention to what we've not been discussing today, that it can be relevant to the overall outcome of the participation in the past. I have always recommended that it be clear and determined that the people's will to call for national regulations. So I'm saying that I've been rather lame under the fact that 53/4 percent wasn't enough, maybe it would be closer to 20%, which said the clear demand for a case to be given to them. The danger is that if we were to be based on the 5% or the 10% rules and thereafter get a very lax participation in the National Remuneration Act, the result would be in no way more democratic or clearer than the one drawn on the basis of a representative democracy, which is the common participation in elections to the council. These items occur in my mind, i.e. The requirement for the determination, or determination, of the nation's appeal. You can imagine, at least While we are in the ideal division on which we live today, some minimum of each district must be called a national law. It's a bit complicated to process all the items that need to be looked into in such a short answer, but this is what I'm thinking, a requirement for the minimum rate of elections on the other hand and a part of the national law. Other things that I feel I need to consider now in reviewing the Constitution are regulations in the Constitution, resource regulations in the constitution, regulations in which we take into account the limits on the authority of the Parliament to give power to the international institutions. This has been the development of the court in recent years and decades without a clear article in the constitution. [[The president calls.]] In other words, I'm not calling for a much higher source of authority in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u17	President. I realize it's hard to answer such complex opinions in a short period of time, but this conversation was opened up in yesterday's discussion. What I'm worried about, and I'd like to be righted as soon as we're at the threshold of how high the percentage will be will greatly reduce the democratic rights. This has been true in other lands. If so, you would be more willing to raise the threshold of how many have to call for a national bill. The other would be very complicated and almost impossible. The minister only mentioned the points known to be the Constitution committee, so I ask if the minister is opposed to a full reexamination of the Republic's constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u18	Mr. President. This has been a major factor in my discussion of the terms of the Constitution of a national law or a smaller part of a council to call upon a national law that is based on the cooperation of the representative democracy on the other hand and on the right of the people to act in a direct way to making decisions. I'm saying we've been well fed by the democracy, even though we can still develop democracy. In terms of an overall review of the Constitution, I have felt that it does not really need an overall review, but some of the constitutions have been relatively recent, at least in view of how old the constitution is, be revised. Whole chapters have come in, like the human rights chip. It is not that long ago when compared with the length of time between the review of many other constitutions. For example, there is a long way to go in the United States, and it is written whole bookshelfs on articles before people consider making changes. [[The president calls.]] The court can develop despite the lack of a full reexamination of the entire constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u19	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon went here a lot yesterday when this case was scheduled. In other words, he cut something off in his old sister's hair and gave reasons for an answer there. He believed that a so - called resource might be very easy to find, and he gave certain arguments. That's what stays. A senator, despite having personally directed work for four years, trying to find out the only truth about resource use. This work has continued for six or seven years. Our conclusions to the major experts in this field are that it is impossible to find the only true resource use in the marine outlet, i.e. any of the extra-improvement that arises from having access to a limited resource. You need to find some fair exchange that can come from Icelandic fishing roads to society beyond what other employment pays in general. It must be thought, though, how we will ensure the integration of the fishing industry by means of the fishing industry and other industry that use natural resources of the country, such as tourism and energy industry. That must be our future assignment. It was also held off. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon said that much higher fishing costs could be collected. He himself thought that it was the amount of money that could study up to 25 billion dollars. It is natural that there is no consistentity in such a presentation, a respectable president, when it is held at the same time as suggested by proposal to provide a higher rate of hunting, as suggested by the left greens, which has been submitted to the bill. People must speak clearly. People have to stop deception. It is a minimum requirement that there is some honesty in the conference discussion when it comes to these matters as well as others. We covered it well, many senators, in kitchen Sundays yesterday, how important it would be for the General to practice an honest, transparent practice in order to regain the trust we all want the nation to have in this important organization. This is not part of the language that has been practiced by some Icelandic seabeds. There is no simple suggestion from the left green, and indeed the chairman of the United States also had a word that would provide billions of valuables that could be used in the building of the welfare system by reducing the existing fishing costs, as it was said. This reduction is over and over, because in this terms of terms, the rate of hunting has been higher than ever during the last term, although the plans of the last government in the word have been to take some journey that was so far from all reality. It must be a minimum requirement for the head of the political parties, so to speak, to offer suggestions on what the more aggressive and stronger companies in Icelandic marine waters are to pay for their fishing fees. There must be a minimum requirement. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's mask tells the people in the East, on the arms, and on Thors crew, at Nessau, and at Nessau, how much he's going to take into account the surreals that have built up an enormously powerful and large enterprise and are a prime success in their professional life. There is also Dalvik and Akureyri in this context. But that's where we came to the empty cabin. This is nothing but a word of wisdom, an empty saying of wisdom. Unrespectable. Absolutely irresponsible. Then you have an invitation to a medium-sized enterprise which, in fact, is higher in this bill than it has ever been, also compared to what happened during the last terms. There is one thing that must be kept in mind in this regard and is a clear example in the mind of all of us who are interested in the development of employment in the country. We have reports of Actavis these days where 300 human manufacturing site will be removed from the country within two years. This is because of the economy of an international company. It is better for them not to engage in production, as it has been built up here in a country where the stove is simply too small for the many pots that must be cooked at any given time. So, there's always the need to be changing pots on the stove, and it takes time. The production unit will be exported to Bulgaria, but in this large and powerful enterprise there will actually remain about 400 projects in the country involved in pharmaceutical development, marketing marketing, international permit and financial management. According to the information I have from the company, it is not available to carry that function, much more so will men look to strengthen it. Of course, one would have liked to see that the environment of such manufacturing companies is in Iceland that this company would have chosen to expand its unity in Iceland and say: "Hey, there we can build a bigger stove that takes bigger pots and can do more. Unfortunately, it's not the conclusion now, hopefully we'll still be able to make good use of it, hopefully there will be an opportunity, without anything in hand, that will continue to make use of the specialized workers that have been built up in this company. But let's put it in comparison with what we are talking about right now and the extra currency that the left groups always speak for granted on this industry. Let's put it in context. Is it a problem for the Icelandic fishing industry to transport its full production on fish products to foreign lands? To Bulgaria or other European countries? Even China? America? Is that a problem? No, there's no problem, a respectable president. Norwegians live in such a state in their fishing path. Because of their lack of competitiveness in the full - time production of marine products in industry, Norway takes place on a very small scale when compared with us. The fish are largely removed from the country. Do we want to create such an environment here? An enormous revolution is being opened up in the processing of a bullfish, which is believed that the building blocks will take over the next few years from being suitable or self-sustained, some two to three thousand tons of processing, up to 10,000 tons of industry. We will see an enormous expansion in Icelandic fishing from such technological development, and we will see far fewer hands produce far more valuable than ever in the bodyfish. We've taken those steps in the upkeep sector already. Do we want to invite the threat to the world that such factories will be built in a foreign field because we are creating an environment that forces this production from abroad? No, a respectable president. I don't want to. I will fight with my mouth and crush against such developments in Iceland. But that's exactly what's in those words when you talk about the strong business in Icelandic fishing can be taxed under necrosis, it can pay over 25 to 30 billion on an extra tax. It is evidently talking about placing this tax on a small number of companies in the article, which, in fact, are the topway of the article and making a huge amount of money for an Icelandic nation. In this discussion, people must start to show some responsibility and honesty. It is a minimum requirement, and risking the deceptions that have been promoted to the Icelandic nation as to what can be done against the Icelandic fishing industry. You see, it's too late in the ass, a respectable president, if we start to lose that job from the country. I'm calling for the council to start showing responsibility and firmness in this. And I call for us to take up a business discussion about how we can conduct this article's work environment, that we'll join together for a responsible member of the Icelandic political group, to accept views, and to create an environment that will bring even more value to our community.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u20	V.E.G. President. When a bill to correct a change in the fish price law, it's through 3rd. and I've finally had a discussion to say at first that, unfortunately, I could not be at 2nd. and a vote that has been on this case and the changes proposed by the lesser part because, on behalf of the Honorable President of the Council, I met with the President of the Western Union in the Faeroe Islands in the last two days. That's why I want to take this opportunity at 3rd. and only review the bill, the subject that is still under discussion and will no doubt be in the years to come. It is also very good, as I had the option, to visit our cousins and discuss the subjects that were there. It may have been even more important to sit down with them and talk to them about fishing, fishing expenses, how to distribute and compare them, i.e. Which we're doing, and our cousins are moving. For example, it was a very happy evening when we came to communicate with our colleagues about the auction of macrovota, which took place in 2011, and read a large report written by Norwegian expert in the English language as well as a late 80 - page report on this and much more in the fishing business. Looks like who. There are also conflicts, such as here, how to make reservations, how to catch, how to get the most money out of that hunt, what business conditions are to have, and how long, etc. It was a very pleasant conversation. I'm getting much more information about what they're thinking and what they're talking about there. They also said that they were more informed after our conversation about what we are doing in Iceland, often witnessing to our fishing system, and much discussion was just about the pressures of hunting costs, as we are discussing here and now, the method used and how men see it in the future. I've previously said, a respectable president, that all classes of the Council have concluded that the fishing grounds, the fish of the sea, which is a common resource, all groups have concluded that for that it should pay a modest catch fee. All units. But in a committee party, I write on along with my head. Magnúsdóttir It also discusses the methodology we should use. I wanted, for one place, to draw out what is presented in the Commission opinion of how fishing costs have developed over the years, which are actually introduced in the fishing year 2002/003. This trend can be seen in our committee photo. In the opinion of the committee, I also present the data we have considered to be the best information on the survival of fish and processing, i.e. The statistics taken up by the Habitat and done for decades. But as the Haguems Office itself says, and I really agree, this statistics was never intended as a tax base to lay on hunting expenses. That's why the changes we're working on and taking two more years have been made, to get more real-time information to add a modest catch fee. Then, at the General Assembly, I hope there will be an agreement between all categories what a moderate fishing fee is, what the nation will be paid for the use of this common resource. I'm not gonna waste time saying that, of course, it's supposed to apply to the other resources of the country. Reminds us, though, that we are getting, all Icelanders, in fact, a resource charge on our energy every day, with very low, and historically low energy costs, no matter if it's for electricity or hot water. It's a resource charge the nation's current energy supply. But we know and have heard information as to what land induction will produce in the years to come, which will increase in this regard. But back to fishing and fishing fees. The best human data, and a hunting committee, in their calculations, uses to calculate the cost of survival, and the estimated fishing costs are values from the Habitat, which, though, are up to two years old data. In this way, we are now working on a fishing fee for the coming fishing year by the calculations and results coming out of the fishing and processing process in 2013. The 2013 anniversary is much better than before 2012, where the 2012 pure profit of this article was about 46 billion, in 2013 it was up to 61 billion. So the tax stock that we are currently laying on is these remainder counts and win the Search Committee for 2013. That's what I said before is not a good foundation to hang up. Fishing costs must be really effective compared to today or what is happening in that year. If our markets are well fished and great and good sale is high price, which in the natural world is always to be our racer and is, then the story pays a higher price for hunting. However, the markets are taking place, as indicated by evidence now, e.g. With regard to mackerel because of conditions in Ukraine and Russia, the fall can fall, and then, of course, it is very normal that fishing costs will be reduced that year. But if this would happen in the summer, which, of course, I hope it doesn't happen with regard to the sale and price of the mackerel, comes to lower fishing bills after two fishing years. Of course, we can see that this is not possible. A respectable president. Then comes another aspect of it and always becomes a subject of debate, that is, who can pay for a catch fee. It has always been observed in the work of the employment committees since the system was changed, and a new fishing fee has been submitted in 2013/2014, if I remember correctly, that the special fishing fee came in first, then it has always had to be taken into account of their factors and discussed them. That's why I say it's very important that we try to develop ourselves to agree on the basis of the structure, and maybe we'll be making a decision here at the General Assembly what the price is. But the big, strong companies have said, and showed up at one of the largest companies, i.e. HB Granda, with its chairman, Kristján Loftsson, said at the main meeting that this company could pay its own fees and would have no problem with it, obviously added that there was hopefully a part to make more peace with the article. That's how it was when we were working at the time, we saw a tablet over 25 of the largest companies that will probably pay 85 and fifty percent of the price today. They may be available. But then the problem comes with the same methodology for those with 50 tons, 100 tons, 200 tons, or 500 tons. Although I don't want to agree with it alone and say that compression took place in the article for the hunting fees, I don't want to take it so deep in the years, and I think that men are more likely to use it as an excuse for selling themselves out of the article, it can't be so that the use of hunting fees will always be flat, and for all, the largest, small and medium, that it can lead to integration in the article. I don't think it's for our benefit. No doubt it would be a very practical and successful business if all fish were to go through one company, but hopefully it will never be. That is why our change in terms of the smaller portion was added and increased from 300 million, which is estimated today to a so - called holiday target or to a discount of 500 million, or increased by 200 million, and in the way it is implemented. I must say, a respectable president, that I could not participate in the work and application, but, of course, stand behind it and hope that it is only the best way that was chosen by good men. But I'm also gonna say it, a respectable president, and it's what we're critical of in our committees what was late in coming up, and, in fact, it hasn't been worked very hard, it was four weeks in a professional department, and then there was no work on the case. But what I'm saying, simply a respectable president, is that we generals lack better data to work with the pressures of hunting fees in an effort to determine what is a moderate fishing fee each year. It's a very complex calculation, and it's usually data, so you're not sure if there's any kind of power in it. Sometimes a large portion of fur may be missing, sometimes missing an increase in codfishing and so forth, so finding it is a little complicated. Hopefully, we will be able to move forward toward a better reconciliation so that we will reach a common conclusion about the currency, which is the result, and then we will be left to what is to be paid. But as mentioned in a committee party, it is so if I recall that during this fishing year, fishing costs, total fishing costs paid to the state of every company, large and small, around 17.2% of pure profit, or EBT, are fishing and processing in 2012, according to the table. If the same number were now, it would be higher because of growing catch and, above all, much better to be able to talk about, between 2012 and 2013. But the basics and the biggest thing I'd like to mention, a respectable president, is that I think we're still moving in to have the system set by which we're going to work. It's important. Then the price remains. In short, this is what I wanted to present to the 3rd. The point, however, is to reiterate what I said earlier that in this table, there are information on how this charge has been submitted, as stated, based on the index price of consumers, the total fishing cost in 2012/2013 was about 10.4 billion dollars. and had increased from over 4 billion years earlier. Of course, it boasts that the special fishing fee came in, and the general price was raised too. It was during our difficult years. But I also remind you that there was quite a lot to turn into the marine road environment, both in terms of debt, of course, so that we were getting much more of our products out of the fall of the crown, but the public gets back the consequences of the fall of the crown, i.e. That everything in this country will be more expensive. Like so many others, the golden average is a problem. But the main point is that this is the case with the price to be paid next year. I reiterate what I said before, it was very interesting to talk to our immediate cousins about how this is done. It was also interesting to listen to how they think of us and to see if they should do something similar. That's what I wanted to have at this last stage of this last discussion about hunting costs. I also say, a respectable president, given that the more part must start making adjustments based on the system that the greater part put in over the last year, that needs to change, I am 100% convinced that this is supposed to be for a year, but not for three years. What will people do if in 2014 a great difference from 2013, for example, in terms of figures or conditions on markets? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u21	Mr. President. I want to say the last words. Kristján L. Möller. I don't feel guilty that the current government will provide this way for three years, and substantially into its next election period, when it has itself for every three years in a row, it will have to be adjusted by the hand of the hunting fees and will now, altering its hand - control fees, although it should be determined on the basis of its three - year law of methodology. That's what it's all about. Otherwise, I was going to give a quick answer. paritaprevir The Jón of Gunnarsson, who, of course, stuck to his hat in the past and went quite much, accused others of double - skindity and if not of hypocrisy, of evicting the sea even out of the country, would only go after Actavis if those who looked or if they went excessively to receive it. Hv. A candidate adjusts the view that there is a contradiction in the less part of it to suggest a well-created change in the size and medium - sized discount, while it also suggests that the articles can carry a higher rate of hunting. That figures why. A senator is a contradiction, a double - colored, hypocritical, something like that. [[Up front.]] Something like that. You see, this is exactly the same as the credit charge makes it easier for the grappling workers to carry the small and medium-sized companies to carry the hunting fees, in a way that makes debt more difficult for them to carry the gratifying fees, for which the branches otherwise tolerate higher general fishing costs, because they are the ones that are being sought, to meet those who have difficulty carrying full resource expenditures, as well as to take into account the debt of theaks and to support the smaller ones who, of which, of course, in fact, do not, have the equal financial advantages of the resource as they have, and are quite normal. The article will then tolerate the second, and its recovery will offer a higher general resource expenditure. Hence, this is not a contradiction; it is in a logical context, such as the dog. Perhaps a senator should try to understand. Hv. One senator felt that there was no need for men to recognize their policy in these matters and pointed to the fact that they were not waving it in the coastal areas of the arms or of Thorsve or of Dalvík that they thought that the sea court could pay higher general fishing fees if it was intelligently implemented. At the very least, it does not apply to the person here. At a fishing convention of 20,◯21. Last November, I was asked by the members of the conference to give a presentation and try to answer the question, What is a reasonable resource price? In fact, I set up the question this way: What's a reasonable resource cost to whom? Because it turns in two directions. Being reasonable, of course, not being overimbursed, not only turns to the nation, the owner of the resource, which is natural to claim part of the coin. I wasn't hiding my conclusions on that subject. For a very detailed purpose, I can send you a why. At least a senator the arraignment or my approval, I suggested that I consider it a rather reliable basis of fact and science, by reviewing the flow of the seabed in the last few years by looking at the future, by examining the development of my own financial development and by looking at the prospects, that 16 billion plus in resource expenditures compared to the present resource supply would be a modest contribution to the nation - 16 billion plus a modest contribution to the nation - and on which I stand. This year, it will probably be about 80 billion and 16 billion resource expenditures will be left to some 65 billion in production, finance in this article, and there will also be some reduction of income tax as the resource revenue is higher, and who will argue that 65 billion in production is not an excellent source for the article above? Because no Icelandic fishing route in its history has ever been until 2009/2010 seen such facts. He has enjoyed unique benefits now and is doing the eighth year in a row. It's a pleasure, it's joyous, it's good for all of us, but let's not be told ghost stories in the dark. Although returning a moderate resource resource to the nation, an Icelandic fishing route is not on its way out of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u22	A respectable president. Me and what. Senator J. Sigfússon agrees completely that there is a difference between the company's environment and the different formulations in the country. I think we'll agree that we want to keep the variety of Icelandic fishing roads. The fact is, once again, that the offer made in the motion of the left green, the change they made to this bill, turns around to give an increase in the rate of SMEs, as it is suggested. This will not put the smallest effort to benefit the smallest amount of money beyond what is expected in a system of discounting, which is more critical than ever, which is the most widely proposed factor. You wonder, then, what you are getting closer to and where the line is and how much of this is being accomplished in the full - time production of the products in Iceland. That's what this is about. So ten companies in Iceland in the fishing industry produce 61% of EBITDA. Other 35 enterprises produce about 29% of EBITDA. In other words, less than 50 companies have about 90% of the EBITDA. Now's the time. A senator is off the hook, he is giving a discount of the previous ideas that went up to 25 billion and down to 16 plus, of course, the plus is unconcerned but is likely to be rooted in the processing of crops. Is it not true, the Actavis thing is a sign that if too much money is added to the production in the country, full-work, it can move abroad? If it were too much to ask. So a senator suggested what these companies, the few companies, have to pay in addition to the fishing fees and introduce the nation and the companies to what they think they can pay beyond what is being placed on them today? [[The president calls.]] I think it would be most honest in this discussion that the calculations in it followed. It should not be complicated by the simple picture. A senator draws up on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u23	Mr. President. Changes in the memory of the part now and the way it is explained or reasoned are completely in the spirit of facing different positions and the different payment capacity of different types of agents. I think that's exactly the right thought as a change in motion. The members of the Lilja Rafney Islands Magnúsdóttir and Kristján L. Möller report a little extra support, allowing him to reach some further into a group of large companies. That's what I think is an absolute correct focus. Of course, it is very well supported by the smallest of its components, and the support then extends to a considerable distance into a group of intermediate enterprises. Or is it not what men are talking about, and what is concerned about, that there is the problem? I think I've been well aware of my views in these matters, and there's nothing special about me in this regard. Or has a why. A senator saw a number of others deliver half an hour a ride between 20 and 30 transparency, and carefully outlined, in detail, the arguments that the sea route has the ability to pay the resource fees of this magnitude, 16 billion plus, not a limited term, end naturally when people discuss this under these merits. In fact, I talked about the space I think I'm doing in my errands, maybe there's something that I don't know. The result is simply this, and looking at the big picture and straddling, on the increase, of the seabed that has been delighted to regain its financial strength as much as it was best for a crash, that, in view of its present good supply, it is moderate in view of 16◯18 billion resource revenues. I remind you and draw attention to the word "stupid" That is a moderate share of the country's owner for his share.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u24	A respectable president. The mask's off. Now, there is an additional impact on the 16 billion that was spoken of earlier, 18 or 22, and much more so. It's a big difference whether we're talking about 22 billion or 16. How much of it is becoming the product of total product production in Iceland, which has grown to a great extent and plays a major role in the growth of European seas? Doesn't think that's a risk. The senator that we will see the same example as it is currently being done at Actavis, 300 human manufacturing units, investing in staff, investing in housing, investing in all equipment, the knowledge is there, the experience is available, that an enterprise will still be able to see the benefit of transporting it to Bulgaria? Is it not possible for us to come to the same position as the Norwegians, who, in fact, on other grounds, carry much more of the unmanned raw materials out of the country than we do, that if we are going to go too much into the processing section of this article to calculate the natural resource resources? Is it not, then, that humans will look at carrying these production units out of the country? Don't you think it'll stop if we go too far? I reiterate my question to what? The senator, who believes that half an hour with him in very detailed detail reveals all the truth in this, may I ask him to add another half-hour to and calculate this on a business, so he brings it to black by white what he thinks those companies who are under the law can pay for fishing fees and should be paid for a hunting fee according to his passage.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u25	Mr. President. To be honest, I'm not interested in talking with what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson in the form of a twist on these matters. However, I'm an amateur on this subject, and I would like a more objective and upbuilding discussion on resource costs and taxable arrangements when it comes to the use of common resources. Sadly, though, we have some land, Icelanders, about developing our rights in these things, as most developed countries around us have done. For example, Norwegians, Canadians, who have entered a relatively developed currency legislation due to the access of private partners to the common resources of the nations. That's what we have to do here. All over the world, the purpose of this treasure is to go to bed. When Iceland was in cooperation with the World Bank Fund, which twice brought powerful emissaries from outside experts and took their own men to Iceland to talk to us about some things. tax issues, they specifically pointed to this, saying: A country such as Iceland, so rich in natural resources, must, of course, be employed to shape their legislation in the field in terms of natural currency for the resource use. They have repeatedly pointed to it, and they have criticized that the present government should go as far as reducing the fishing rate it did. Is there any danger that Icelandic fishing or part of the work of the Icelandic fishing road will go to Bulgaria or anything else in the land for this kind of currency? No, I think it's the best thing to say that there's a negligible chance of doing that simply because there's no better working conditions for the European seas than here. Our advanced fish industry is integrated into the fishing industry and works largely on fresh materials in the market. Do people think that they would take the cod ice cream in a country in Akureyri, fly it to Bulgaria to drive it back to Britain into the market? Of course, it is like any other form of telepathy, and our strength is at one time at the same time. In this integration, we have more than Norwegians that we have an integrated article. Those who sell at the market feed other people, who usually buy that fish to win it and a lot of fresh. [[The president calls.]] And the freshness and the time line make it by themselves that such a process does not go anywhere else. She's and she'll be here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u26	President. I wanted to express my joy that this bill would become legal later today. Freedom of speech is one of the cornerstones of a democracies society, and how important it is that we bring our laws forward to our modern times! This law is truly a child of its time, and it can be said that this change in law is the response of Icelandic society to the attack on the editors at Charlie Hebdo. I am so happy that we as a nation have decided to strengthen our freedom of expression instead of what has happened in some places, that attempts have been made to suppress the freedom of expression following these disastrous events. You could say that when these laws get legal, we're all in Iceland, Charlie Hebdo.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u27	A respectable president. Here, I recommend a panel of members with a bill-change proposal for a reservation for a reservation based on a greater part of the General and Education Committee at the 3rd Environment. The committee has reviewed the matter again after it was referred to after the second. The committee specifically discussed the 5th number. Section 12. The bill requiring the departure of a neighborhood strategist, No. 123/2010, but the plans were somewhat critical of the writer. It is the estimate of the greater part that there is no need for decoupling of neighborhood arrangements in order for the bill to achieve its objectives. So the majority of the committee suggests that neighborhood arrangements will remain valid, but to simplify the reference to the maintenance value based on the law. The more important estimate is that the minister who deals with national culture, and thus a role designed to be a member of the local reservations, and the minister in organizational matters, has agreed on the implementation of national and organizational matters. That's the one who's working the machine, including the one that's working. to plan to implement regulations on the structure and protection areas of the community, in order to work on the national reservations, and to plan to achieve the best planning for the reservations. In addition, such cooperation is designed to further prepare the implementation of the law to achieve its objectives. The majority of the panels call attention to the fact that the concept and wording of neighborhood planning are not detailed in organizational procedures, No. 123/2010. Thus, the majority of the coordinators believe that this bill is essential for a law-registered review of the 37th paragraph. Organizational procedures, taking into account that neighborhood arrangements are clearly laid down and what they include. (b) Why is it important for elders to make adjustments in their lives? No. 123/2010, the search is unchanged and no change is made in this arrangement, as agreed by the Committee on the 2nd. of Parliament 1440. The majority suggest that the bill be agreed with the change outlined here. Under the view of much of the printed page. Senator Konráðsdóttir Konásdósdósdóttur, Chairman of Líneik Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótttir, Elsa Lára Arnardóttir, Vilhjálmur Árnason and Daðason Daldason. In the event of an existing legal modification proposal, 5 mg will be required. Thirty-seven. Organizational laws will be as follows: When delegating, assessment of the preservation of phenotypes and of existing individual buildings should be made. When working on such neighborhood planning, it is permitted to compromise the requirements for generation planning in new settlements and to stress the general rules of the design of the community as well as the general framework. The rules for disorganization apply to neighborhood arrangements as appropriate. Then I feel that it is only natural to review here that when people treat the situation, they have been greatly strengthened by decision - making decisions on the environment, consistent with the objective of the bill, and the community's approach is important to achieving the goal. The use of thought has been coordinated and improved, and with the changes now proposed in the search and neighborhood, as well as the change in neighborhood protection accepted at 2. Um, the bill's interaction with organizational laws is improved. Are these changes to the loss of your partner's work according to the bill, you are walking smoothly and achieving its goals.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u28	A respectable president. I'm here recommending a commission on bill change of law No. 41/2013, on authorization for Ministers, on behalf of the state funds, to finance infrastructure through the work of the Northern Parliament, with subsequent changes. The bill presents a change in law No. 41/2013 in terms of removing the amount of money that is legalized, it has been found that the cost of transduction is greater than previously thought. The majority point out that the bill that became the law No. 41/2013 was followed by the review of the financial and economic office as usual. It stated that in the bill it required that a professional cartographer and colony minister be allowed to negotiate with the road repairs to the industrial region and, on the other hand, at the Húsavík ports' budget in the form of a stray loan. The review pointed out that the construction and management of transport was supported by a minister of state and that financial and economic funds were at the hands of financial ministers. At the 143th legislature, more part of the employment committee proposed a change in the law in order to extend their duration for a year and was also authorized to negotiate with the surmounting loan water reserve, heard under the secretary of the financial system of state funds, i.e. Financial and economic ministers. The bill of the Committee was adopted, as is the law of No. 131/2014. Since transport in general falls under the topic of State Ministers, the committee discussed whether it would be better to do so in this case as well, i.e. that the Minister of the Interior shall take custody of the procedure under the law. The majority suggest that the bill be accepted as unchanged. Under it, you write down. Councilmen Jón Gunnarsson, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Haraldur Benediktsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Páll Jóhann Pálsson, Þorsteinn Sæmundsson, and Haraldur Einarsson. Hv. paritaprevir Kristján Möller Muller was absent from the case because of his journey on behalf of the Council President to the Faeroe Islands, but now, as we have seen, a great amateur on this matter. A respectable president. I'm going to use this opportunity to point again and again to the twin - skind group of the left members of the council. Here we are talking about the energy-efficient industry, construction of the Back, which we welcome most of us. It is, in fact, far beyond what is now approved at this council for the general investment environment of such companies. This project came into operation during the last term, supported by existing government groups, greens, Conspiracies, Bright Future, and Others. But then the time comes for us to discuss a frame plan here and the necessary link it has to do with similar work in the south of the country, and then everything goes into effect. I've tried to bring out this twin in the litigation of the packs in this discussion, and I want to reiterate it here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u29	A respectable president. I explain my committee's involvement with a part of the employment committee that we in the bright future are about to meet. A bright future did not provide financial support for Back Back Back Back in time because of the tactics we criticized, and we also criticize this practice here and now. With President's permission, I'm going to have to read from the minority opinion: While the main item is not opposed to the continuing building on Backka, it is highly charged to remove the amount of money to the project originally approved at the Council, which will thus be lost in the need for financial support. Originally, 1,800 million were registered. K. contributes to making a road link between Húsavík and the industrial region in Bakka, in 2012. The project is now scheduled for 3,100 million. K. It is clear, therefore, that the initial use was not sufficiently planned. At the same time, there is no guarantee that the project will not be even more costly, with a related burden on the financial situation of the state. By removing the amount of money from the law, as most of the funds have suggested, the Commission is not provided enough. It is particularly reprehensible when the account for the excess expenses these are sent to the taxpayers of the country. The smaller section thinks that work is unacceptable and is therefore unable to support the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u30	A respectable president. This is an understatement from both the majority and the smaller parts. In the beginning, I agree with each word. paritaprevir The Eldar son of Ástþórsson, mentioned in the committee's opinion. As we know, this looks like an open industry check from what I see. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon of environmentalists, for this project was started last year. As we know, left greens are opposed to any major industry except sometimes, but much more was done in the past government, and there was a catch in the local economy. Senator. The performance of the work is unacceptable. I make it clear that I support all the job structure around the country, but this kind of plan just doesn't work in terms of financial resources. It was asked of the original law of No. 41/2013 to authorize a minister of this matter to be strangely accepted into the Department of Employment at the time. Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, professional minister. The government's financial laws allow only legal warrants for a financial minister, so I made strong comments on these laws at 1st. The point. I want this project to take its place, as stated in the review of the financial office on this legal bill and the laws that are now being changed on this matter. The review noted that the construction and transport activities of the local minister and that the government's loans were at the hands of financial and economic ministers. Yet, in the last term, this project was being given under the Department of Employment. It's all wrong, and it's weird that this has gone through this council, which reminds us once again that this must establish the General Legal Office so that such an accident will not occur. We know that the last government cut down on sensitive sites in the basic services to have room for other projects, which I have sometimes called pet projects, and what happened was that somehow it had to find time to set this, for example, not into a transport program, because these are tunnels, of course, for heavy transport. The project was never hosted by professionals. The road does not want to get close to this case, and he arranged for a hearing of the money committee and refused responsibility for this forward drive and these tunnels because it is not inside the Road Table, which is quite different. Then one day at the end of the last year, people wake up to the fact that the project has already gone from 1,800 million, as the bill expected, to 3,100 million. It has already increased 70% and the project is not completed. There have been excerpts to explain that this was in an earthquake area and that the ground was in a different way than expected. I'll say again: If this is a project being started, we must investigate all the details before the project is launched here at the council by legal process. It was also noted that this could hardly be spoken of as a recessive loan, as shown in the original bill, but as a direct state strength, I ask for ESA rules of state when the cost has increased by 70%. It's like other things, they're giving open access to the completion of this project. However, 70% of performance is unacceptable when efforts are being made to control the government and reduce costs, resulting in such large rubber checks taken during the last terms of interest. That's what I wanted to say. I spoke for that in 1st. that this project would be entrusted with a location in the right place in the State Department and in the Ministry of finance, since the law was being opened and reformed. It seems that there was no time for that, as soon as the assembly ended. It's natural on the bill after what. The employment committee is given the case to bring an accelerated case here, but when the committee gives a case just before the Senate's commission, it is generally not expected to be referred to by the Committee between 1 and 2. As far as I'm concerned, this case went back into the pro board. I've talked to the committees there, and they say that there was no time to take the procedure to move the project to the right place for our system to function, and that similar cases are hosted in the right places, in this case, a tunnel to be held in the State Department, under the road type, etc. A respectable president. I had to make this statement, but I'm going to point it out to all the members involved in this project to be chosen a site because these things don't work, that the problems for bringing up the case can be handled, and put under some department, just by the person in the minister's chair. As I have said, I speak highly of legal reform and responsible government. I'd like to read a little bit from the members of my section as a boy. paritaprevir The Eldar's Ástþórsson to this case was given by the President's permission of Love Þrórsson: It was legally registered to 1,800 million. K. contributes to making a road link between Húsavík and the industrial region in Bakka, in 2012. The project is now scheduled for 3,100 million. K. It is clear, therefore, that the initial use was not sufficiently planned. At the same time, there is no guarantee that the project will not be even more costly, with a related burden on the financial situation of the state. By removing the amount of money from the law, as most of the funds have suggested, the Commission is not provided enough. That is especially reprehensible when the account for the excess expenses sent to the country's taxpayers. I'm going to make these words my way in this matter, because at the beginning the end shall look. There must be practical cost schedules for all the projects that the state does, and it cannot be applied indefinitely to taxpayers for projects, although they are very urgent as this project, since I support the work structure. Besides, I'm going to say something. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son that in this case you can see the hypocrisy of the left green and the agreements on the energy - consuming industry and strategies, since a great national arrangement was stopped at the council, the frame, where the proposal was made for such a procedure as this. In use in the Þjórður, but the same groups stopped that matter, so much of it didn't go through because of the council agreement. However, in some places energy - efficient industry can be built up, but in some places it is obvious that the outstanding examples of the fruits and economic effects of such structure are not to be built.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u31	Mr. President. A few words first about the general policy of the left movement, the green supply for industrial and occupational development, not to try to respond to the bullshit that has been brought up on the side of two last round. Councilmen, it's just council members and for the truth's sake. We have not opposed every industry or energy use in the country. [[Up front.]] We have talked about a wide range of employment policies, and this is how we applied ourselves during our last terms. It was managed to move the situation to Húsavík and South Germany from the stream of the idea of trying to stuff it into one giant aluminum, which would have needed all the energy of the high-heat areas and the expected river and thus drying it off on one board. This would have been of an almost impossible magnitude for this targeted work area and would have had disastrous consequences, even more damaging than people seen in the east, uncontrollably expanding during the period of construction, and the expected high retentions and lumbermen thereafter. The reality of these ideas was unrealistic and unreasonable, and in reality it was a land induction which, in the end, was the principal success in the matter, simply said: We are not on the move to promise a delivery of hundreds of megawatts from high - temperature areas that we are just beginning to study. It's not on the agenda. Our methodology is going to go into the fields and activate them in stages, learn about them, gather knowledge, and evaluate the extent of its use without progress. The examples from the Hellish seams scare. The cases from the Smokeynes scare because they thought the Hangers'territory was much bigger than it turns out to be. They were to build another activation at the Whovilles that humans are now prone to because the steam needs to be drawn there and brought to Hellishe activation so that it could drive to its full capacity. There they made rapid progress in what they wanted to be the full use of the territory. However, land activation has developed a very reasonable methodology in this process, it is good to start using a contract with a medium-sized buyer who buys a convenient dose from the 1st step of activation of the Theist countries. We have often been ridiculed and ridiculed for talking about something other than aluminum depression, and people often insisted on it here in the years, as they asked: "What is this anything else? People spoke as if one of the commercial solutions were the big package solutions. But what has happened in Iceland for the last five to seven years, or since a collapse? It's just something different than aluminum cremation that's driving Iceland up from the waves. It is certainly a nice walk in many of the basics of the real economy as it was, in the fishing field, in agriculture, in the food industry, but it is also a great rise in other subjects, which were rarely mentioned when men wore their heavy glasses on their noses. More than anything else, of course, it is the tourism, which in this sense might be called something else that has moved on. But there have also been good things happening in the field of industrial and energy abuse, and there is hope that it is painful, the cohesive apostles themselves, how many good things from the time of the last government get into the process and are now seeing the day, absolutely in the spirit of the policy that it would be good for us to see the increased diversity in this field, see more small and medium-sized enterprises, see new trades come into the country instead of adding to the existing ones. And what has happened? We've seen a good-looking structure in data stations. We now see at least two silica plants starting up, and a number of other activities are being developed, and it is a pleasure, a pleasure. [[Upwards: very.]] It does not contradict the basic policy of left greens in the business but entirely in its spirit, for it has helped to increase the diversity, to get the internal bodies that create relatively many valuable jobs on each energy unit, and to achieve greater diversity, not having all the eggs in the same basket, since it is less likely to fluctuate at once and then that all causes a fluctuation. Of course, there are other factors that have been pleasant to observe, such as the power of creative articles, if we now use the equivalent of some of the intelligent branches, designs, culture, architecture, or what they are. All kinds of activity are growing and is increasingly becoming exportal, which we can legally classed under the major creative branches, as we were brief and trying to provide for the growth of individual branches, were funded to support each other, and were supported by exports and agriculture, and so on. It is a pleasure to see what that development has been like. She's a success for us. This is shown by the fact that despite a tremendous turn of events in Icelandic fishing roads and his best position probably once in a row of eighth goods, he is no longer number one when it comes to the labor of the population. It's not because he's gone bad, no. This is because other articles, i.e. More than anything else, tourism and air transport have been so successful that they have become so much more than one of the nation's world's net - currency companies at a quarter of a hundred billion dollars. In currency income. It's beautiful. This was probably something that we had been entrusted with 10 to20 years ago, yet we had many optimistic expectations about the future of tourism. It was just a long time ago when I was a travel minister for almost three years, and I had complete faith that tourism and the country would have everything to make us one of the big nations worldwide as a tourist nation in understanding: the story compared to the population population in Iceland, and that has happened. We have become a very large tourist society with 330,000 inhabitants and 1.2◯3 million foreign tourists or foreign visitors a year. Then Back up, Mr. President. I hope Húsavík and the Parliament follow the sermons, and I actually know that there are many of them. So I don't have to answer specifically. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson or so not why. paritaprevir Eldar Ástþórsson of Ástrós, though I admit, it's more challenging for me to tell about the matter on the basis of his proposal and his future, even though it was of course disappointing. I don't think it was the right conclusion for them not to support this good case just because they couldn't accurately calculate the amount of dollars and the amount of the State's contribution to the relevant infrastructure would have to be done. But what about this matter? Men have looked at the energy of the Parliamentian county for years and various experiments, and various plans have been made to initiate its use. Of course, the local people prefer to use at least some of the energy in their territory, and it is also practical. It does not have to be taken long distances, and it does not have to be built up as expensively by national transport contractors, etc. And unfortunately, Húsavík and South Germany are areas that have been highly protected for quite many years. In fact, it might be said that in many ways the failure of Húsaví's efforts to build up other jobs, such as the drought, in the fishing industry, was a miracle, and the failure of one's business was great. And that's how you could count it for a long time. Húsaví has survived, but it has not grown, and the population composition has become adverse in the sense that society is old. The same is true in most parts of the southern Parliament. For example, if we look at the average age of the population in that area, it's hair, children are relatively few in schools, etc. and we all know what that means basedly, it's built on defense, and it's not bright ahead unless there's something better about it. That is why it has not been difficult to try to contribute to the practicality of someone, and I say again, the practical plans for building up. I don't have a problem with it. I didn't have a problem with it. I'm not ashamed of it, but I'm proud of it, I'm proud of it all, and I'm really happy that when I drive through Húsavík now and when the project starts, I'm really happy about it. But there was a high threshold over getting to convince the men that there was a place to settle down with structure, it lay quite ahead. The region is what is often called cold in that sense. It is far from the southwest corner, it is a relatively small community, and although Akureyri is in that range, it is still a matter of looking to many features of the interior and such things when they wonder whether it is wise to settle down. The reality is, if we have an open house and we invite people to choose where they want to be in Iceland with any activity, they will choose the Cheflavor airport, the area around or the city of Reykjavík. All of this structure will be there unless we have some kind of policy that way we're not going to have Iceland. We'd like to try to foster and create opportunities for growth in all parts of the country, and especially look to areas that have been once and are highly protected, such as Húsavík and South Germany and part of the Northern Parliament, although there were better developments there on the northeast corner as in the Thors and the armed forces, and then back again in Akureyri and in the island, there's a strong area that doesn't need to be of the same concern. But between that, between the Middle East and the Middle East, there's been an area that's been defensive, so I hope we're changing this. There will be very good things in this area when a Caddy tunnel is established, when the construction of Back is done, and the workplace has become powerful for 120 people by a high level of education and secondary activities. More is likely to happen, as soon as the ice is broken and the industrial region is one of the ideals in northern Europe, as it will be with an impressive connection with the harbor and energy in the country, many will be interested in setting themselves down there. The ice has been broken. There's been some necessary investments, and that's what this is all about, i.e. The need for infrastructure investments to open up new options for the location of SMEs in Iceland, increase the options, add the fourth or what we want to call it, so that it is not just Southnes, Reykjavík, and Grundartan, and the natural disaster. This has national value. Will the State really get out of this? Is it expensive? Yes, it is. It's an investment like this costs money. Let us say that it goes to 33/4 billion. What, though, do people think that the government will earn money from 500 to 1800 people who will be there at work and pay taxes in the next two years and then 120 persons on a high level of education and a good salary? It'll be fine. It is an investment in infrastructure, which will produce great national value and economic growth. In view of the current economic situation, it was calculated that this could result in up to 0.5% of economic growth, just these projects, as they are considerable. It's the construction of the National Reservation of The States, it's the Landsnet building on a line from there down to Húsavík, it's the construction of state and rural unions in the interiors and then the factory's own building and all that connects to it. So this is a handsome medium - sized investment. Is it really a terrible shock, then, that the connection between the docks to the industrial region, is anything more expensive than the first casual assessment of the Roadmaker? Yes, in that sense it is always bad when such things change, but it is not a major conflict for the State. Or is someone talking about calling it off? [[Foreground on: A bright future.]] Anybody want to cancel? I think it's nice to get it out. And if it isn't so that it sucks. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir and what. Gunnarsson I don't care about that, and I suppose that's true of both of us. They may lecture themselves about it just as they wish. The only thing that would make me nervous would be if anyone were really talking about taking this great and good action just because it turns out it's a lot more expensive to go under the General of the Húsavour than the Roadmaker originally assumed. But what numbers were we to use when we brought the case here to the council? What numbers were we supposed to use other than the figures from the Roadmaker? I am not one of those who cry here and admit it and admit that this case has been badly prepared. It wasn't. But it was based on the limited information men had to assess on this loose record. This has now been shown to be a precautionary measure for more expensive projects. It may not necessarily be, but it is what humans want to have been underneath them, including in the light of experience. Knowing what problems can arise when a country's soil is built and where there is a low pressure, a person must be prepared for it, and the tunnel may need to be strengthened. They also need to be large and well - prepared to serve their purpose, i.e. The transport from hopefully expanding industrial areas in Backka in the future and down to the harbor. At the same time, it will be a beautiful facility, a fine link with a tunnel of two miles [3 km]. In winter they will not be able to survive because of snow. I'm convinced of that, because I've heard a lot of professionals say it's going to be one of the most exciting industrial areas of its kind to SMEs. Obviously they will, because there will not be some giants there, but there could be some companies in a very easy way to fit on the scale that has already been set aside for industrial development in the Northern Parliament. It's very good if it happens by steady, calm paces, but not by any kind of detour, so that this will be a good development that can be successful, within which society itself can most management, and which in the least equilibrium will result in development, housing and real estate markets, etc. Congress is determined to learn from mistakes that others have made and to avoid leaving behind a few empty blocks of optimism when such projects walk around, but rather deal with them through calmness and carefulness. I am optimistic about that. I'm, as I'm sure the President will hear, quite pleased with the position in this case, proud of it all over the end, and tied up, and completely muttered about the spoils of the people here who have been complaining about this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u32	A respectable president. This was a landmark press issue which, in all normal context, should be a front page in the media news, a milestone on building a major industry on the basis of energy development, a very controversial, in Theistar or the geographers in the Moy Lake Force, which the former head of the left green has spoken in high places, and I couldn't agree more on why. A senator about what he was talking about here. This could have been a talk from my mouth, so I can see just that we can have close and good cooperation over these matters hopefully in the future. I agree completely with what. A senator says that we need to increase our variety in Icelandic employment. We need to increase the number of eggs. I agree completely with what. A senator on location, we're supposed to look around the country and strengthen the rest of the country on the basis of energy production, absolutely agreeing. And I can imagine continuing building on Backka in connection with energy production at Lake Mey, controversial geologic activations at Lake Mice. This is a delightful support for energy management in the energy - consuming industry. So I want to ask you why. In view of this, if he is not so supportive of Silicor, the factory of the Grundartanga, Thorsil, a silica plant in Helguvík, he is not so supportive. In fact, with the iron complex it comes with eight times as much pollution on an estimated ton as it is in the aluminium. It is good to think that the support of the left green has become very public, and pollution is no longer a problem to them. I want to ask you why. A senator for the expectations of residents in a very cold area in the Northwestern district, Skaga Beach, Batatos, a sheep's raffle, is that it is possible for an architect, a relatively small factory that needs only about 200 megawatts, which is actually a little more than near Húsavík. But if they don't get anything else, can the senator support them in the northwestern district, in that cold territory? Then it is appropriate to refer to the synopsis of all members of the northwestern Parliament to support such projects. Welcome aboard, huh? paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u33	Mr. President. Thank you and goodbye. I'm not one of Gunnarsson's crew when it comes to big-time policy. A senator will not wear it out, though I have reasoned well enough to support this project and to be proud of it, that by doing so I have agreed with him in all the great trades everywhere, under any merit. It's not like that, it's a long way from that. However, when this case was involved, it was so dangerous that Theist smoke was already in the colony, that the Rhines had already been drilled, and so water was under the bridge to debate whether or not to be activated. It was a long time ago decided and given out all the permits, the tests started, the roads, the drills a few holes, etc. So, of course, people face it. Support to it is not a guarantee that you will be able to support the activation of a Bear Flag. Happily, it is now in reevaluation, and a new branch administration in Strull has specifically emphasized the need to be very careful, land activation has accepted it and agreed to review the previous activation plans in Bear branch because of locality and water and had already decided to leave them for only half activation if it took its place, so the emphasis was changed and decided to start with thelimits. Very good results to that matter. And to go a little further, my support for this and further building on Backing for small and medium-sized, and preferably as environmentally-friendly companies, does not prescribe that I'm ever going to take my breath to support the activation of the Shiver River and make Aldino Falls disappear. It's not that, anyway. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u34	A respectable president. Now I know the tone again. Now the cigar was on its way. The wind started blowing from another direction, and it took a very different course. He agrees not to build an energy - consuming industry on Gruncians, in Helguvík, or in other parts of the country for the strength of those living there, no, this applies only to Húsavík. There you can set up a factory that makes it as many as eight times as possible pollution comes with the production in tons. He didn't answer my questions about the other projects. He basically indicated that he was just not supporting them at all. That's where the twin skin comes from. Senator. He went over the other day when I asked in my innocence if it could be so that the district matters. I'm not minimizing the fact that members of Congress are very much forward in their elections. It's only natural that men are. But it will be just as true if the senator is a meaning in what he said in his first talk, that the region should be strengthened by the development of energy - efficient industry. The energy - efficient industry has a wide range and diversity. The data studios are one of them, for example, very interesting. But it's all co-signed that energy needs to be produced. Even if we're going to increase the nation's electric response, which I believe we agree on most of the people here, that will require a lot of energy. We are faced with the double skin. It doesn't matter where they are, it doesn't matter what they're talking about. There was a loud talk about Bakka and Húsavík and demeaning the conduct of the rest of us and suggesting that we were opposed, that we've supported that case all the way and we'll do it. I hope that further projects, larger and more varied, will be being carried on in the Netherlands, related to energy production. [[The president calls.]] I hope so. The interiors will be there to receive them, and we have supported them despite the cost of something more. And it is so often that we even need to look beyond the scattered settlements that it costs us a little more of the indiscretions if we are serious, to use the tool to reverse the development we have had in the past few years.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u35	Mr. President. It's fine that we can agree on something, and I agree with those last words. Senator. It is good that he realizes that both of these are necessary and also completely justified in taking further steps in order to set up operations in remote areas. Regarding my attitude toward another major industrial structure. A senator missed my answer, as if of a suspect and in Helguvík, but I did not say one word about it in my answer to my question. As a result, there is no basis for me to take sides in this regard. I don't take sides with these things on voters. Action started or was in preparation during the last terms, e.g. two sources of data, one at Hafnarfjörður, the other at Smokejanestown, a silica plant, signed some agreement, and led up to what is going on in Helgarík. It was Helgavik, not in the Northeast District, and I don't think I have to sit as a politician that I've been in a special budget over the years. My first and most difficult strokes, perhaps, were quite successful political powers when I was a minister in the other century, what was that? There was a tunnel. There was a Halfground tunnel, and there was a new General Building. It wasn't in the Northeast District. In fact, it seemed odd to some that I was subjugating myself to political activity in distant parts of the country, which was because I was and is the belief that we had to support much better and better live on the West, that it would not have been as adverse and negative as it has been. Although the other is not added, there is no need for good, that governments have often shown limited support and support for them. I set exactly the same criteria when I consider myself to be an assistant to any job structure, whether it is in the Northeast standard or anywhere else. It is true for the Gruntans, for the Norwegian-West District, that it is acceptable from a national, but mainly environmental point of view that there is no immutable sacrifice to the nature of the land when such projects are started and so on.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u36	A respectable president. I'm glad we're going to accept this bill here at the Council, that's really good news. This is good news to the inhabitants of the wilderness of Húsavík. This is good news to the inhabitants of the wilderness. This is good news to the inhabitants of the land of the north and of all the land. This is good news. And there has been wide solid solidarity on this project. But I'd like to be a quick tracer. I think we could've been moving, though, ever before. It's simply that this project alone helps a great deal in the economy of the whole country that everyone living in Iceland should have better, and that's just what we want to do. We want to use our environmental energy to build up employment opportunities, build up jobs, to try to reduce evacuation or unemployment in cold areas, and this magnificent project is part of it. I'm gonna have to talk about V.I.L.A., too. It has always been part of this project, linking the Eyjafjördur and the House of Germany, so it will all be one business area. They have been more critical than they have already been when the hospitals are united under the National Institute of Health and when this structure is started, people will see the tremendous benefit of Vella Roads. We're talking about the area that's been cold in a professional way. However, I must respond only to a few points from my companion's Northeast speech. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon. I must admit that I could have felt that he could have been a little brighter here in a speech chair when he spoke of such a positive and successful career. At the end, he said that he was very positive, and it was all in the right direction, and now I had listened carefully. But like others, he may have made a large contribution, forming a position of government and government at the end of his last term for this agreement. These were good treaties, good for society, and those who agreed to do so deserve all honor. Now I want to give special commendation to the town government of Húsavík, the present and the former. What really happened was a slow start. They started at the right end and laid the foundation. Various stones were in the way, but the people refused. The Congress, the Commission, and other parties have made the task a reality. There are many people who have a lot, but I especially want to mention former local representative of Húsavík, Stefánsson, who I believe was more important than others, and perhaps others who were born were very involved in the reasonable way in which this work was handled. He endeavored to summon members of other political parties, and despite a great election win in the last district election, he preferred to have others on board instead of managing matters. I think it was wise, and I also think it was in the cooperation that candidates and others would like to contribute. I have to mention, however, one incident I regret to have delayed the project, but it was decided here that in 2008, I remind me of the project that there would be a unique meal here, at which point it was decided to have a so-called common environmental assessment. Civil governments and others pointed out that the project would soon be delayed, and unfortunately it did. I think the two years mentioned have, unfortunately, come true. I also think it's good to think that in a 2009 (2009)2013 state-wide report, this project was always expected to begin. And this 0.5% economic growth that will probably turn into society is something that we could have seen before, and this 0.5% interest is in the value of billions of dollars in income for government funds. They could have been put earlier in the medical system, in education, on transportation. Sadly, though, there have been lions. It was noted that at some point, people had set out to go to an area. I supported the locals in that effort. I supported it because, instead of talking about 120 people at work, it was talking about considerably more, reminding me of 300 people at work, and the pollution, proportionately, was much smaller than today, and it's a good thing to keep. It also pointed out that technology had so far advanced that it could have even become even greater. I wasn't afraid of the spell in the area. I think the locals have worked very wisely, just as they have worked on this project all along. They would not have started on major projects, buildings, and so forth. I don't think they've ever thought of it, so it would be advisable to build some large blocks that might be able to do more easily. There's only been mention of Bearsfjord and Theist smoke here. I think it's true that a bear's head has only been held back. I don't think that's what people may be aware of in general, but those who pass through the Smokeland Road in the Swamp at Lake Moy see that there's little activation, I'm reminded of two megawatts, i.e. Aberrantal activation. In effect, the activation of a damaged area is referred to but, of course, to the point of water deforestation and how close it is to that point, I feel that Landactivation has been very reasonable in that regard. In fact, I was surprised to learn that men were just as eager to receive Theistaremeactivation because I thought that from an environmental point of view and aesthetic point of view - Theist behaviour is in an extremely beautiful area where there was a hall - you might want to look at it, i.e. that those who have fought this should have more to say, but the level of reason was on top, and the art of virtue is a major part of the reality. Hv. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon mentioned the Shiver River and that it had to be activated by the Shiver River to trigger an aluminium. So I refuse. There's never been a mention in this project that it should be activated by the Shiver River and if it has been done, it's been a long time before my time. There's no way to activate the Shiver River. There's no way. I know these ideas are likely to appear in some report. One down. A senator pointed out that a 1994 report had been prepared. A former senator, Sighvatur Björgvinsson, who may have been crazy, might even have been able to turn off the falls Falls and activate it, which is also completely out of my mind. But then people began to talk about it some other way, and at the time when people were asked about it, there were sometimes times when a senator mentioned that a baker's bakery could be opened in the prisons, and I think it might have been unfair talk. However, it was also noted that the police and health services could be supported, and the last government set out with a great plan to cut down 40% of the medical service and to unite a police office, which has actually met today. But it was fought, fighting it was much better in the last government, and we in the Middle East fought hard against it, and I think we have successfully managed to reduce that cut-off by up to half. I think it's really important. I don't think that when they mentioned that there was a population that could be multiplied, there was no idea that the same man, and he mentioned it as something else, something like that, would happen in cutting it down. They point to tourism. And should we not, then, give it to the crown that she plays a part in the large increase in tourists? Happily, in the collapse, we managed to lower our currency. By doing so, we were able to prevent massive unemployment, the blessing of God's promise that we did not have the euro back then, and, while we were in the middle of nowhere, we, too, managed to make it possible for tourists to come right away. And I guess Eyjafjalla has helped us a great deal, hasn't it? After considering it, it may have been some of the best advertising the Icelanders could get, and we reached out to point out that it was a beautiful landscape, a good thing to come and a cheap one because the currency could be cut off. I'm not gonna have this any further. I would like to finally say that this is merely an impression that the tunnel belongs on a transport program. It's been disputed, and as we agreed on by the time we did it, we'd still be in there, but I think it should be revised. This is not a means of transportation in the sense that it is intended for the public. It's for the industry first and foremost. It's industrial. There are conditions in the transport program where the projects there are intended for the public are taken care of by all the people as they do. I see in the opinion of the greater part that there's only a question of where this belongs. We put this on a transport program, but I think it's going to be revised in the fall, and then I think we need to take a very serious question about whether it's not right for this project to be at home in the Ministry of Industrial Affairs. There are special laws on construction, and it will be specifically mentioned for financial purposes, but all other transport improvements will be in the transport program. But eventually. Congrats of the Parliament, Húsavík, Emboss, Norwegians, and all the Icelanders with this wonderful performance. She'll bring in interest. It will prevent the evacuation and unemployment of people in cold areas. It's a good life, a good thing to come to Húsavík, and when the project begins, we'll probably see an even better society where professional security is more secure.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u37	V.E.G. President. I had not intended to discuss this fine subject with this discussion. I did so when a greater part of the job committee, all of whom are members of the Committee, except one. The problem is to build wood up because of jobs in Backka country, as the law calls it, for a change in the figure of 1,800 billion. K. In addition, legal compensation is canceled. This will be addressed to the budgets of each year and according to a courting agreement in terms of this task, but it's better to start, and I'll be very happy to do it. I see myself compelled to come here and discuss the cost plan because of a lot of criticism. paritaprevir Vigdís of Hauksdóttir on that matter. The key point is that no doubt the cost of the project has been done according to the best knowledge of those who make such plans, i.e. the budgets that were faced when these laws were adopted. These were likely legalized on autumn days, or just before Christmas 2012, which were then adopted on spring days of 2013. Of course, it is shocking and disparaging that this plan is not right or true; further design, research, and other evidence shows that the project is more expensive. It often happens in these situations, and as I said to 1st. is not spending an enormous amount of money on research and other activities during the first cost of a job. Or do people think, for example, that the expense schemes currently being carried out in various airports that could replace the city's airports or changes in the area of Reykjavík, the gross budgets set in it, are some sacred information, and if the design did not result in their failure to change numbers? Why do people think they're putting in a 20% uncertainty show? It is shocking that this cost more than, of course, has to be true. It was something special at the time of the highest. The government made an incarceration agreement on this task, there was an indication from the government's interest in its construction, that the United States' high - temperature area would be new and built up in the industrial region at Bakka. Of course, this discriminating agreement has become widely available in all this process. If we hadn't gone that way, and if this were done in the usual way, i.e. if the parties, communities, and others were going to do, then maybe the whole will-do is involved. The custom was that it would always be last, but it was broken in the paper and in the dissecting agreement, but it was made with clear notice that it would not take effect until contracts were signed and that it is now completed. The road has given evidence of why the budget has gone up. There are reasons, and it must also be kept in mind that the culminating agreement and the money that the State needs to contribute to this is, of course, just a thing that we need to share in with other nations, and especially when working is being built far away from the capital area, as is the case. The construction of the land needs to be reinforced. I am absolutely convinced that this will-to-be agreement and the amount of money set out from the state will bring about a generous return to the state funds in the form of taxes and increase in economic growth and the rest. So we're creating more variety. I remember a time when they spoke of an aluminium in Bakka, near Húsavík, a large, large studio, and I remember it when I was convinced that land induction could never promise so much energy that would need to be done at certain times because men were starting the Theist sector and starting to activate that area. The long-term exposure to hydropowers cannot be predicted as to the extent to which aquifers are affected. So I felt that at a certain point it would completely fall for itself to build a large plant there. Then this idea came up in the middle of nowhere. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir, then supreme. Industrial Minister, then the Alcoa Convention on Homeland Building was taken out and opened up for these projects with the best support of the locals. It bears this fruit now, the German company has started building a silica plant at Backka, which will provide 140 people with jobs in the years to come and up to 750 jobs during the period of construction. It is good and satisfying that they are going to succeed. There's been a slight discussion of the professional policy of certain categories and categories. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson made a big point of it when he spoke about a frame plan. Whatever its name, the person listed here has not always opposed the development of a job. I think it's necessary to develop, although I also want to direct the law and do things in a conventional way. Hence, there is a framework of tools adopted here at the time, and Theist smoke was a novelty class. Hence, land induction is working to sell energy to those who want to buy it, and that's a good price. I've been convinced that there will be a good price, so that's where we'll turn the energy into exports as we create a lot of work. I mentioned the cost plan here, as shown in the report on the future of an internal flight called the Rackham Committee. Because I had written it on my notes, may I mention that the expense plan that was set up here in Reykjavík - she did? No. Is this to be followed? No. None of these are to be imitated. Of course, we should be able to trust plans and work with more precise plans. We've had an example of a Catechism tunnel, which has been a 10% increase in its pain due only to an index number. Let us, then, just figure out how this system of indicators and so on. The temple barrier was essential for action and, among other things, for the construction of Bakka. There they were put forward to strengthen the infrastructure, as the last government did with its resounding agreement, and to begin implementation at the Venal tunnel to build up the Middle East and the Northland all of it as a large area of employment. So the infrastructure we're always talking about is there, so it's supposed to be a celebration. I don't feel that there's a lot of disagreement about this matter, even though some senators are loud, as well. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, who also seems to be the best thing to do when she arrives on the platform to scold a former government and especially a why. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, former U.S.A. Minister of some emergency. I'm going to skip it, but I'd like to end it by saying, a respectable president, that there was no more disagreement on the subject on the spring day of 2013 than so that the nine members of the Independence Party paid their vote, the six senators of the Convention paid their vote, two were absent. At that time, the senators were just eight, I think. However, several members of the Independence Party were absent. This is just an indication of the solidarity that existed at the time because the bill was adopted by 33:5 votes, nine did not vote, and 16 were absent or absent. The matter was a good deal, as I believe, now even though I notice a few of them. Councilmen prefer to use it as a matter of controversy with the former government, since it was actually a very special matter that a certain number was under law regarding this project. Finally, a respectable president. I support this case, and I'm one of the carriers of this proposal. I'm so glad that I've finally started working construction in the country of Bakka in Húsavík because I've been talking about it as long as I've been a senator in this area.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u38	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend this discussion much, but I'd like to share some points in this matter. As we have seen, the lesser part, or representative, is unique in this matter and critical preparation. So it was at one time that the senators of Birts had a future in the matter. They did not vote for it, but they did not object, and they reasoned that perhaps preparation was lacking or was lacking more evidence. It was, of course, the design of a tunnel and more for this industrial area without any real involvement in the company. So I have a certain understanding that this was only available in the ropes, that there were not 100 million people in thorough research. You might also say that putting a particular number in the bill was a mistake, but I still feel that I should try in some way to assess the cost of such projects and coincidences. Perhaps in the process, it is proper to state that the representatives of the Bjarts future voted with the Venetian tunnel, which, for some reason, are extremely controversial, though it will be the users of the tunnel, those who live in this area who pay them up. worst of all, the state will fall into a corner, but the state will have already acquired a very important tunnel for which to say no money. I don't quite understand how controversial this tunnel is. It is also appropriate to remind you that, whether it has been with special agreements or agreements like the Backs, and the majority of these companies are in the capital area. I feel a little tired that as soon as something's done in the country, somehow everything goes wrong. I would've liked to have been better off with this case and to have been in a more thorough analysis of these tunnels, i.e. Design is too expensive, but it can be justified in putting money in design to get a clearer picture of the cost of things. In conclusion, I went to Hirsthal's one of the largest sea creatures in Europe, where there is one of the largest fish cages in Europe. I thought it would be amazing to have such a fancy collection in this small town so far away from the capital. The thing about it is that all the most important things must be where most people are, and this would probably never be done in Iceland. We can't even agree that the skeletons that was found, that I think of a rain drain, will be set up in the whale museum in Húsavík, because, of course, she should be in Reykjavík. I learned that this aquarium had been supported by the European Union, and there it was with the European Union's regional policy. Sometimes I wonder why the country is very much against the European Union because I think the European Union's regional policy is much better than the regional policy we've been allowed to develop in Iceland. So I'm on it. There will be no turning back now, and I hope this will be a good thing for the area. This knows those who have observed that Húsavík has tried a lot over the years, even produced. It's a beautiful plank set for a period of time. I'm sorry, but it was only before the plank parket got in fashion. I saw such a couple, but unfortunately, their production was stopped before I could buy them. But they deserve a fancy structure there, and this adds to the variety of employment in the area. So I cross my fingers and I hope it's all good.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u39	A respectable president. I recommend here to the Committee to recommend a change to the bill in terms of changing the fish lab law and a number of other laws (required warrants), from the job board. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Jóhann Guðmundsson, Ásta Einarsdóttir, Baldur P. Erlingsson and Margrét Sæmundsdóttir frá the atvinnuvega og nýsköpunarráðuneyti, Sigurjón Ingvason of Fish Room and Kolbeinn of Árnason and Friðrik Friðriksson from the European Union. The committee received reviews about the case from Fish Labs, the National Reconnaissance of Iceland, the Association of Fishing Road Enterprises, and the Western National Prayer Association. The bill suggests changes in the provisional rights of the Fish Room for the Agency's control and services, which are now found in many laws. A simpler and clearer payment warrants and a greater degree of expenditure will be established in addition to the basis for the decision of the currency, there are actual costs resulting from the implementation of the Agency's activities in accordance with the general opinions of the collection of services. This suggests a number of new tax returns in comments, such as 1, 2, 6, 9, and 11,◯15. number 2.mg. a-arms 1. The bill, the charge for the assessment, version allowing and certifications and costs for the special processing of information and access to data collections. Other currency warrants are already found in the law and subject to changes in the bill one way to install them into fish firms law or refer to registrations in accordance with a-a team 1. (For fully formatted text, see publication) The law of the law) in the proper law. As indicated by comments to the bill and also presented to the committee, 2 mgr will receive new legal rights. a-arms 1. the previously referred factor leads to an increase in the cost of marine activity. In view of this, it should be done with caution to place increased government budgets on the seas like other employment sectors if possible, but there is no legal provision for all the services and surveillance required by Fishing Office. Has this led to the paying of funds derived from other activities of the Agency. A fishing room plays an important role, and it is necessary that the Agency's activities be fully funded for the work entrusted to it by the legislature. In other respects, there is a clearer format and cut-off of costs that depend on subsidies for improvement. The committee suggests several technical changes in wording as well as the changes in the bill's validation. The Commission suggests that the bill will be adopted by the changes presented in the Committee to conduct this procedure. Under these writings of Jón Gunnarsson, president and executive director, Rafney Magnúsdóttir Magnneydótttsson, Haraldur Benediktsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Páll Jóhann Pálsson, Þorsteinn Sæmundsson, and Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir. Kristján L. Möller and Eldar Ástþórsson were absent from the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u40	A respectable president. We're moving a bill to legalize the Law on Fish Control, with subsequent changes. This bill is submitted where so-called mackerelcellop was pulled back, and I in the absence of the Chairman of the Committee, who was going to transfer it but is in a meeting, will read the report provided with this bill: ▪ With the bill this is suggested to establish a home-to-house provision to reduce the total resources in each species for the distribution of a target, at the same time 3 and 5 mg. Section 8. The law, shall be returned to certain kinds of bullfish, according to the particular analysis of hunting ships' owners. The switch terms should be based on cortical parameters. The same kind of law as the suggestion was contained in older laws, but it fell down by law No. 70/2011, the change in law No. 116/2006, about the control of fishing. A change in the 9th sector has been made. The law to provide access to Fish Service to provide the reference to a fishing vessel's employment experience in part or in all respects when a seat is renewed. Among other things, the expression "changes in the seat " refers to the selling of ships within the country and as the number of ships is reduced and thus combines hunting experience and fishing grounds with two or more ships. Two provisional adjustments are made in the law. On the one hand, it is suggested that an extended period of about one year be extended from the maximum supply rule for boats with permission to hunt with a hook-communication section on regulations for temporary V; however, changes in provisional factor VIII are proposed. It is suggested that a secretary be authorized to care for her needs, i.e. For a summer's sanctuary, and a Norwegian-islen fjord; for a reward shall be extended until the next year of fishing. At the same time, it is suggested that a minister be authorized to assume 2,000 macroil trains for small boats. It is suggested that the price of the resources under 1st. the amount of the solution will be reduced to 16 bars. of 8K
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u41	V.E.G. President. On the bill here to correct the changing of fish rule laws, No. 116/2006, with subsequent changes (improvement of recycling criteria, macroil disposition, extension of temporary protocols, etc.) which is transported by a greater part of the work committee, I'd like to say this: In my section, we decided not to be carriers to this bill, of course, which is linked to the work of the Committee regarding both macrotic and hunting costs, where it was not discussed for four weeks. For one thing, it was decided not to take this bill. We also said that the change should, of course, have come as a bill about changing these laws from a minister. But okay. This takes into account a little of the current situation. A case has come late, a case has been taken late, and perhaps that is why the minister has thought that it would be too long a process to transport it as a traditional rule bill, which would pass through the government, etc. In 1st. The bill, which is a change in 4 mg. Section 8. The fish - control laws, in effect, are being returned to the old prospects where deductors, or so - called, 5.3%, are taken and restored to the existing system, which is supposed to facilitate the growth of species and exchange into this very small pot. I think this change is for good and it's right to go back to the form that was. Second, there is the provision to allow the provision of the reference to the ability to gain experience and other rights associated with fishing between fishing vessels, i.e. That when a ship is sold, it is permitted to remove labor warrants and sell the ship directly. It reminds me that at one point, information was presented to a small talk that took place, and it was an example that if two seaships were being sold, which actually have macroil privileges, and if this had not been in force, then it would have to be sold to the person with macroil warrants. On the other hand, humans could have done this differently, and that was often so, or they could have been done in accordance with existing laws, and that is selling the ships out of the country. Then maciloth would not have been sold, so ships could be purchased into the country the next day. I think it's also improving, so people don't make cutaways or practice by law and rules, it's also a good thing. Third, there is once again an extension of the requirements of a so - called catch that may be on one project. This has sometimes been called the Bikkavík. The committee reasoned on what may be agreed once more. I say for my part that I don't think it should be extended at all. It should be stated at the High Council that this is a final session until September 1, 2016. So it's about filling the quota roof in the small system, and it's usually called the "Stikavik Code." This can be taken from another industry, which was about to be replaced by the ECU of Reykjavík. We had to extend, if I remember correctly, twice or three times for a similar reason as it was put out there, i.e. That they were working on matters of debt, or that the loans should be spoken in this matter. Therefore, I reiterate what I say: I will support this article but for the last time. In other words, as I said earlier, it is due to be made clear that this law no longer applies. Now, the amount of time that is given here must be used to fulfill the laws of maximum integrity. Then, at the end of the study, there is another adjustment to the distribution of herrings and mackerel to small boats. It was needed to put it in there, and it could be said that by agreeing with this launch, it will be improved under the fact that two thousand of the macroil trains and increase the small fleet from 7,500 tons to perhaps 9,500 tons, which is distributed in a particular way in the Government of Macroticism that has been released by the Minister and is for this fishing year. Finally, I see there is a drop in the amount of money that is in terms of her expenses from 16 k. of 8 K. for small boats. If I recall correctly, last year the Ministry proposed a higher elevation than there was, the committee agreed to 16 k. But now it is more of the Committee to reduce it to 8 K. I must say exactly as it is, though I have nerves for small boats and miniboats, to 8k. it may be a sufficient price and 16 cents. Too much in terms of the situation, considering that these are silhouette fishing and some fish only for themselves, but I need support to explain why the cost is dropped. In case of a moment. A senator here recommending for the bill of the greater part has an honest answer in this regard if they were well silent in the discussion. Finally, I'd like to say again that the reason why I'm not one of the couriers is because we in the smaller part thought that it was best that the more part would be involved all the cases he was working on. However, I state that some of these parts are, so I give support to them here at the vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u42	A respectable president. I agree with most of it as a dog. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller says about this bill, as mentioned, from a greater part of the employment committee, which I forgot to record earlier. In terms of the remuneration, I thought, and felt that the 16 letters were written on the committee. which the signs were sold in the last year for the full price, both for the price of the hunting, and for the increase, and for the markets of the herb, and for the entering of this bill for the mackerel; where it is said that the mackerel shall be eight bars. Then they laid a 10 - dollar coin, which may have been remembered, which was supposed to be a special price on a mackerel when it was not set up, which was, in fact, not done. The hunting bill is 8 bucks. on the mackerel, so this corresponds to that. We thought it was right, and I get it, so I get it. If so, it is what really comes from a fishing fee of these species. This may be a legal fee, but, of course, it's quite high and 16 bucks. are, I think, way too high when you take into account that market prices may vary from 40 to 170 k. We'll find that 16K. is too high and we need to be careful about it. We had a special payoff line for small boats in the hunting bill, and I think it's a fair payment and comparable between these species. Of course, we can debate if she should be 8 K. But I think on these two species there should be the same price, as indicated here. I hope that's enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u43	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a committee party with a motion for understanding cooperation with the Faeroe Islands and Greenland on ways to reduce emissions of sulphur from ships. The head of the Management Board has been contacted by the head of Iceland's Western Council, the Council's Director of Directors, as well as by the Directorate of Employment and Development and Environmental and Resource Ministry. The proposal suggests that the Allied Assembly will score the government to cooperate with the Vander Islands and Greenland government to reduce emissions of sulphur from ships in cases where pollution is attributable to the use of black oil. It must therefore be directed to the countries to develop and implement measures for efficient and environmental energy use by requiring the use of fuels that are less polluted and equipment that remove sulphur particles from fuel vessels. The suggestion is based on a conclusion by No. 2/2014, adopted at the annual meeting of the Western Council on September 3, 2014, in the Western Islands, which presents the challenge directly to the national and national governments of the Faeroe Islands and Greenland. The proposal does not reveal the rules on emissions of sulphur from ships in Western countries. The Commission reviewed the European Commission's directive on the content of sulphur in shipping oil in the EU region. These directives have been implemented in the North countries and were introduced into the last Directive on this topic recently completed here, in accordance with Regulation No. 124/2015, the sulphur content of certain liquid fuels. The Regulation recommends that the sulphur content of sea fuels, including black oil used or used for ship or boat use, used on land and in Iceland's pollution record should be up to a maximum of 2.0% (m/m), except for fuel for ships using approved methods to reduce emissions in a closed system. This category has made this clear in the Icelandic government's policy model and has set the limit of 2% of the maximum sulphur content in shipping fuel since 2007. In the case of visitors, it was suggested that the Veterans and Green - American government should be encouraged to set comparable rules on the limitation of sulphur content in shipping fuels. Furthermore, it would be important to encourage the Greenlands and the Movers to expand their participation in the North American pollutant projects, including Marina project on reduced emissions and the use of eco-friendly energy at sea, which was pushed out in February 2014. The Commission has reason to believe that the government of Iceland shares information on environmental policies and measures to reduce sulphur emissions by the National Administrations of the Faeroe Islands and Greenland and cooperate with them in this area. The committee proposes a one word change for clarity and suggests that the proposal will be accepted by that change. The change is included in a committee party. In short, it says that instead of the word "sigmas, " at the end of the motion, the word is a trajectory, which is clear in the motion. Under these words, on April 22 of the past few days. Senator Birgir Bjarnason, Chairman Birgim Vilhjálmur of the Ármannsson, Ásmundur Einar Daðason, Elín Hirst, Frosti Sigurjónsson, Katrín of Jakobsdóttir Jacobs, Ottir Proppé, Ásmundður Skarphéðinsson, in advance, but Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir's daughter was absent from the case. A respectable president. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u44	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason's helmet for an extensive and clear history of extremely complex subjects. I've always supported the cooperation and support of the Western nations. I think it should be promoted in any way we can. Yet, that did not go unnoticed. A senator that I sign this committee opinion in advance. This is because I believe that not all the suggestions that come out of the Western partnership so far should be accepted. In some cases, I have felt that the proposals are already under way. In this case, I find it quite difficult to see that this time alone or anything for the Icelandic community. This is why, as I thought it would be. A senator attributes that we have implemented here the types and directives that the European Union follows in these topics. But I can absolutely agree to it to be in harmony with the two Western nations, that we also put this into our council and challenge the emphasis given to this matter by accepting this too here. This may well be, and it is likely that by giving them greater weight, but I believe that what is required in this proposal is more and less all to be done here on land. That doesn't change the fact that I signed the committee's opinion and will support the proposal as well as the adjustment form.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u45	A respectable president. I think I'm moved to answer that question. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson in this matter. It is certainly true that Iceland has already implemented a directive and carried out demand for sulphur content, but Iceland is in a certain region of the North Atlantic where these countries are the closest neighbors and it matters to us what these countries do because emissions are not local. Air pollution may spread in our environment. These countries have requested cooperation in the Western Council, and I believe we have a responsibility to support these countries in the way we can and in these matters, I believe that a mutual profit is being involved in the countries that are there. If we feel that too high a sulfur content is a harmful environment, it is as harmful to our next neighbor as it is to us. That's what I want to do. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u46	A respectable president. I hereby commend the Commission's committee's committee's committee of proposals for action in order to allow representatives of the Westnoric Council to send queries to minister. The Commission has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Brá Konráðsdóttir Konstirddóttir, president of Iceland's Western Council, Inga Dóra Markussen, director of the Western Council, and Elín Flygenring from the Ministry of State. Then the Foreign Affairs Commission requested the Commission's opinion and the Presidency Committee assigned the General Legal Office to investigate the legal part of the case and present that conclusion with a foreign legal committee. The committee received a memo from the General Legal Office that follows the committee's opinion as a document. The proposal suggests that the General Assembly will score the government to allow representatives of the Western Council to send queries to minister in connection with the Council's work or on matters related to the Western cooperation. They will be sent to the Western Council's office to send them on to the appropriate minister. The minister responds to an inquiry by an agent at the latest eight weeks after receiving it. The proposed article indicates that it is based on a conclusion no. 13/2014, adopted at the annual meeting of the Western Council on September 3, 2014, in the Western Islands, which presents the challenge directly to the national and national governments of the Faeroe Islands and Greenland. With the proposal, the Western Council wants to promote cooperation between the Western countries by granting elected representatives of the Council a chance to present inquiries to the management of the three countries, thus providing the credibles with a better chance of monitoring or focusing attention on the government's work involved in Western affairs or cooperation. Please note that at the scene of the Northern Council, the elected representatives of the Council can present inquiries to the national powers of the Member States according to Article 57. The Helsinki Convention and that it is natural that representatives of the Western Council have the same right to the government in the Western countries. The Commission feels natural and desirable that representatives of the Western Council have the opportunity to send inquiries to the Western government. A Western Minister's Committee, such as the National Ministers' Committee, is not active, but it would be preferable to establish the structure of the queries proposed to the proposal. The General Legal Office notes that this will not be done by altering the Western Council's stock agreement, as if it were a accord with three National Parliamentary Congress treaties rather than the National Convention, such as the Helsinki Convention. The foundation of the cooperation between the Western Council and the government in the West-Northern countries is the declaration of cooperation between Iceland's Government, the National Government of the Faeroe Islands, the Greenlandic Government and the Western Council of April 15, 2002. Perhaps it would be appropriate to submit a review of the Community Declaration where the representatives of the Western Council would be established in order to send queries to the Member State's minister in connection with the work of the Council or on matters related to the Western cooperation. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted unchanged. Under the heading, the June 15, 2015, issue of Awake! The members of Birgir the Ármannsson of Aarmann, Óttarr Proppé, An Anna María the Elíasdóttir of Elias, Elín Hirst, Sigurjónsson the son of Sigrion, the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir, Silja the Gunnarsdóttir of Döggle, Vilhjálmur the son of Bjarnason, and Össur the son of Skarphéðinsson. In addition, it shows that there is trouble. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u47	President. I'm Charlie Hebdo.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u48	Madam President. I'm Charlie Hebdo, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u49	A respectable president. I'm Charlie Hebdo.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u50	A respectable president. From now on, 3. ur., we will vote for the change of the bill to the reservation in the inhabited earth which includes the keeping of the neighborhood structure in organizational laws, but to the simplicity of reference to the value of preservation based on the directive. Then I feel that it is only natural to review here that when people treat the situation, the arrival of the public in decision-making areas has been greatly strengthened, consistent with the objective of the bill and is the introduction of public importance to achieve its goals. Then the term use has been coordinated and improved, and with the changes now proposed in the search and neighborhood organization, as well as changes in neighborhood protection approved for 2. Um... the interaction of the neighborhood with strategological laws is clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u51	A respectable president. In the bright future, we welcome this adjustment arrangement that prevents the neighborhood organization from falling from organizational laws, which would have been a disaster without any cause. This doesn't change the fact that we're going to fall against this bill because we think it's unnecessary and that the aims of the law could be passed through planning laws and laws on memory protection.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u52	A respectable president. I'll vote with the adjustment proposal that will prevent a major disaster in the neighborhood planning system from coming out of the law. However, the bill is incredibly ill, and it is a special surprise that self - appointed spokesmen in the country, independents, can vote with such a broad intervention right to a public property right in the country. It is absolutely amazing to see the return to the Ministership that is found in this bill so that even if professionals do not consider the reason for peacemaking of territory and settlement, a minister can still decide to present it to Minja protection to measure for peace. It is a complete reverse from the principles that we have been developing the Icelandic government in the direction and quite unbelievable to see the Independence Party supporting such a case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u53	Madam President. I have to agree with what was said here. Of course, the bill has improved in the treatment and on the course of the committee. An executive, Liniik Anna Sævarsdóttir, but it doesn't change as has been attributed to the fact that the bill is unnecessary. It is primarily to meet goals presented in the government covenant and has nothing to do with any need to address these issues. I agree, I find it very special to see here very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, highly-attractive rural people, who feel it's okay to walk in this way against the opinion of the local government that's been heard in this matter. So we can't pay this bill our vote, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u54	A respectable president. I believe that the adjustment proposal here has been made between the 2nd and 3rd. have, at least for me, been fundamental to grant this bill support. Here, neighborhood protection is guaranteed by local societies and by planning laws, but I would have chosen as many others that these matters were still in the same place as they have been. But in view of the presence of neighborhood protection and the neighborhood organization in this way, I intend to support the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u55	A respectable president. In the 78th. The Constitution claims that the social rights of self do not exist unless there is a legal agreement. That's exactly what we're doing here and now. We are legally deciding whether a minister can have anything to say on how to protect the living or the house, and I think it's a good thing. During the last term, comparable steps were taken at the time of chapter 7. a law on the protection and energy efficiency programmes was agreed on, but rural society has to adapt to decisions made at the General Assembly. I'll mention this as soon as I celebrate the bill because the swamp has somehow been on the score that the organizational authority is holy cows and so we must not become rough.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u56	A respectable president. It may now be a little vivid to the situation that has existed here at the council that, even in all ways, a positive matter such as this, is about putting Iceland in the same place as the neighboring countries for decades in this category, even that even such a case could be the cause of all manner of diabolic and blundering. For the presence of a minister, and it is now time to reiterate it because of the urgency of the situation. paritaprevir In Árnason's earlier years, however, it was totally overlooked that this project, of course, is primarily to the rural population, but in the course of the minister's residence. A senator and some others have overlooked, it is entirely in accordance with similar laws, laws on nature protection, laws on culture, etc. and in accordance with the laws that have been used and applied in neighboring countries, such as it was an ostracism of nothing, actually an ossity, and an excrement of something that's just positive in every way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u57	V.E.G. President. As previously mentioned, I have not at any point supported this matter, in the time of the last government, when it was launched and was not alone in this regard. This involves billions of support from taxpayers to a certain department at Bakka, Germany. As a result, these billions continue to increase, and my opposition to this issue continues to increase. These funds were taken from transportation by the last financial bill. This is not related to transport, nor has it been in a transport program. It's a taxpayer's financial support from a major industry. I'm against this case and I'm going to vote against it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u58	A respectable president. I support any structure in the country, but it is my duty to point out in this matter that in 2012, the project was estimated to cost 1,800 million tunnels at Bakkas. K. It is now apparent that 3,100 billion have already been set aside. K. on this project, and it's not the final number. Already the project has increased by 70%, and this money is applied to taxpayers' pockets. In my opinion, it is unacceptable to start a project with such a loose plan and when the increase is like this. I have considered it in my speeches how the assignment was declared at the time, but it was remarkable to hear a word. paritaprevir The Ögmundur - year - old son of Jónasson, who actually confirmed that he is an environmentalist, as his party wants to be. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u59	A respectable president. How happy we are to accept this matter today! To discuss support for areas that have been cold in the workplace, unemployment, and refugees. It must be happy for all of us to be able to establish the agreements that part of the last government managed by our progressive candidates. How glad we must be that this is about to become a reality! This is the use of environmental energy. We're using the local energy. The locals have kept their pockets very well, worked them from the ground in a reasonable way, and I'm going to let myself celebrate with them that this project is about to become a reality.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u60	A respectable president. We independence have supported this case, the construction of employment in the Philippines. In spite of this fact, we feel that the project is justified in its location and in its extensive implementation. I have previously seen that many of the members of the United States are being spoken in language by the twin skin and left greens and even Pirata when it comes to this matter. It'll be fun watching how you're doing. The members of these classes vote, especially with regard to how management of the framework has been implemented, which is the basis for building up south of the country. [[Up front.]] That's why. Councilmen, for the sake of your friends here, boy. Councilmen of Sigis Svavarsdóttir and Ani Páll Árnason and others, who will be particularly pleased to observe how their votes will be handled.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u61	A respectable president. I didn't support this case when it came in 2012, and what's going on here is an additional one, there's a correction of 1.3 billion because there was a lack of public planning. That's critical. What a special thing it is to witness when members of the council come up here and specifically rejoice that plans have been this fared, and how happy it is that they have to spend 3.2 billion more on the project! I didn't support it in 2012. I'm not going to do it now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u62	V.E.G. President. I did not support this case in 2012 but did so 2013, and I now support it. There's a big difference. This was the case with the last government as part of a presumption agreement made far ahead of time that it would not go into effect unless it was carried out. Now it is clear that construction is being done in the area. This, of course, is shocking when a budget has not been met or new information is being developed that makes the project more expensive. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] It's a construction site in the country. Power is being activated on the northeast corner, as agreed in a innovation category frame, and being used for the job structure in this region. Finally - If people in the hall are off discussion, I'm going to get ready. [[For the record, John's just upset...]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u63	I want to pray. Councilmen giving the word to a speaker.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u64	At last, a job structure is starting elsewhere than here in the capital area. This is done by this protest agreement, it is done by this structure, and it will do well for the local job structure. I'll say yes to this proposal. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u65	President. I just want to think that I didn't approve of this case in my last term, and I don't agree with it right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u66	A respectable president. I'm just gonna come in on the committee opinion of my share alone on the job committee. It says, by permission of the president: While the main item is not opposed to further building on Backka, it is highly charged to remove the amount of money to the project originally approved at the General Assembly, it is lost by the loss of necessary financial resources. So we're criticizing the fact that the check for this is being sent to the State, and there's nothing to deny that it is not just another item next year. So we cannot support this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-02-144.u67	Madam President. The Kingdom promised support for the construction of certain structures, and this was an important prerequisite, one of the important reasons why this project could become a reality. The government promised to contribute funds and take part in the countryside, ports, and connection between the trade zone on the north of Húsavík. This is long - term investment in infrastructure, ports, and road reforms, and I believe it is not unfair that the state contributes to such future infrastructure in an area that hopefully on that basis thrives and thrives. It is indeed disappointing that the original cost estimates of the roadtype have proved to be inadequate, but some are also being introduced to prices since 2012. I support this case, of course, because I thought it would be strange if the men were to abandon their support, and so, as soon as it is started, to overthrow it. I'm forced to say, Mrs. President, though I'm bored with comparisons, that I wondered if people would be going this far off in Reykjavík. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
