ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u1	Mr. President. I'd like to start by being especially happy that we're discussing a budget policy here for 2016-52019. It is of great value to get the policy and political emphasis that the government puts in this period of financial affairs, although the main policy issues could certainly have taken more space in this program than they do. I'd like to introduce to you the housing details, just a few minutes ago. It is a large policy issue that has been discussed extensively. The request is for initials from the highest level. Customer minister, on page 30. 2 of the State budget is about the housing: It is designed to change government housing policy with the goal of supporting better with income - poor families and strengthening the position of the first buyers. So many words, Mr. President. On page 18. 5 The progress of collective agreements is said to be one of the main uncertainty and risk factors in the Icelandic economy, the need to re-evaluate when the collective agreements are established, and thus may affect the plans for taxes, investments, and post-traumatic activities, such as housing. This is the space that the big business, the housing, will take into account the budget for 2016-2019. To tell you the truth, I don't think it takes much space. The budget shows that the most important issue in the government of government is reducing debt. That is certainly important, but before I come to see it, I want to point to a picture on page 20. 18 in the State budget and the set up between 2005 and 2015 and then the 2016-52019 programme. This is a remarkable picture showing all the pillars of a Kingdom Fund rise above zero in 2005-2008, and then they all fall into the minus and take a good jump year from year to year until their balance is reached in 2013. It is remarkable to see that in one term period, the Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir's government shut down this great treasure hole and captured it there together. It also shows that the recovery rate after a new government takes over is much smaller than the last term, and that it is expected to remain low, i.e. For example, no more than 11 billion during 2016. This let go, I agree to a sentence in the plan that the most important subject in the management of the state's budget is to reduce debt. The cost of growth is higher in this country than in all EU Member States. When we examine our expenses, we see that the bigst part goes into medical affairs, followed by social and welfare matters, the third major factor being the cost of growth. The cumulative interest rate of 2009:2015 accounts for 580 billion U, i.e. 80 constituted a billion dollar. every year. There are many things to do, Mr. President, at 80 constituted 200,90 billion a year when we watch that the Land Hospital business is just over 50 billion. Then we could run both all the college and the university degrees for the rest, so reaching these costs is surely for working. Iceland's growth rates are far inferior to the EU's financial markets. This is certainly a concern, but it is very important for the independence of the nation simply to balance our debt and balance because we are vulnerable if we experience some tragedy. Because there may be traumas that we have no control over, we need to make the best of our living. As I said earlier, the debt collection was stopped during the last terms, and that's good, but then we have to move on and get into the position to pay off debt. During this period, the plan says that debt decreases from 68% of GDP to 50% by the end of 2019, which is because GDP grows and this is just an account. No name value is expected to drop more than 10%. Some say it's good to get it down by 10% at this time, but the results in it are two, on the one hand, that the currency gets smaller, there's not going to be any new loans to make the currency payback less. However, a reduction in the value of names is expected to be due to the sale of assets in financial companies. During 2015, sales of stocks and property accounts for 35.5 billion are expected. It is assumed that 30% of the items in the Lands Bank will be sold and the price will be used to pay off debts. It is important to have the national budget for a discussion at the council in order to get everyone to argue. Congress officials came to understand the way the government is on that important issue and to find them, knowing that before going into the contract of a financial bill, the parties agree. Now, however, it seems that at the forward party council, it was agreed to do other things for the State of the Lands Bank and that its role will be no more than expected in the national budget. Thus, in this most important point, as the program says, there appears to be no harmony among the board of directors on how to solve it. I don't see the highest. The financial and financial ministers here in the hall but hope that he is somewhere listening to my speech and that when he speaks at the end of the discussion, he will review how to handle this. That is a lot of money, as I said is expected to be 35,5 billion in budget 2015, so the budget will truly need a review if it is not to go by selling a 30% share at the National Bank. A respectable president. I see my time is running out, and I have other important things that I want to come to until my second speech. This will now be part of a budget board, where it will be considered. I'm glad again that the plan has come out, but I miss it not being accurate enough. I also worry that the uncertainty issues are too many for it to be a standard document at this point and that the government groups disagree on big issues that are the basis for the plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u2	Mr. President. I thank the senator for his speech. I'd like to think about certain factors, including. The maintenance objectives set here, 1% of the primarys. It's talking about reducing the interest rate of 5.5 billion. Undeniably, you are concerned that you may be affected at the most sensitive places. Now we are faced with a crisis in such clinics as Land Hospitals, and it is quite clear that this institution and others may not be able to take on more cuts, not even 1%, because there is a great need to be improved. I'd like to know what it is. During this five - year period, it is reasonable for a senator to contribute to 1% of each year. I didn't hear the first two minutes of the senator's speech or so, but I'd like to ask about the Land Hospital, the building in the treatment core. It is said that the complete design is complete, and I wondered if it is assumed that this is a means of entering some other funding but from the state, whether the senator feels the same way I do. I'll continue with health care and now ask about the S-labelled medicines. Counts 'em out. A senator says that what is referred to here is practical based on how these cases have developed over the past few years? As we know from a budget board, this has been developing into perhaps an increase in expenses and new drugs have not been absorbed, and I'm worried that it's not... [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u3	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the questions. First, about the maintenance goal, 1%. In a typical year's trip, it would not be too much to take down about 1% to make room for new projects, with about 1% being 5.5 billion. A senator pointed out, but when we are coming out of such a great low and massive cut as we are making a difference of 1 percent in surgery. The health system did not enjoy the quality of the crop, but we cannot avoid cutting it down when we needed to balance and close the fold. Because our health system was not good as a result of our collapse, I worry that it should cut down about 5.5 billion dollars. because you can't help but enter your welfare. The well - being, health, education, these are the language groups that take on the most, and I can't see that we're gonna be able to avoid cutting down that conservative goal. That's really worried. Regarding the construction of a new land hospital, I remember that it stands in the budget that it should offer the structure of the treatment core following the completion of the design. However, certain funds are not mentioned in this relationship or where to take the money. I have to get to the S-labelled medication in the next answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u4	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answers. On page 18. 21 Regarding the therapeutic core, it is not possible to read from the schedule when this period will be and how it will be funded. There's something else I wanted to think about. The Senator said there's quite a few things we don't know about this bill, and I agree with it. When I read it through, I thought there were a lot of uncertainty and risk factors, and that is also the opinion of those who have discussed this, e.g. The living room. For one thing, it shows that the Kingdom responsibilities are great, and we know what has had to be moved into an apartment loan fund. It is obvious that there was an increased risk with the debt paid by which we are so well acquainted with the advance party, which led to an even worse outcome for the apartment loan fund, one of which is also a major risk compared to progress. On page 18. 40 people are talking about irregular groups. When I read about them, I thought it would be a little special to cover such a huge frame, where 160 billion are actually taken out of the program. Not all of these are monotonous measures. Can the senator see how we can affect this? Is it really possible to evaluate the plan when so many teams are inside irregularly and taken out of parentheses, not exactly under discussion here? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u5	Mr. President. Hv. A senator will answer some major questions. First of all, he talked. Senator on the S-labelled medicinal products and their plan in a previous answer. Of course, it is known that we have difficulty in estimate the amount of expenses in the medication. This joint has been over and over and it is hard to estimate. I'd like to mention the uncertainty factors. They're so many in the plan, and it's said that the collective agreements are the biggest uncertainty factor. It is said not to take out a currency stand as the biggest uncertainty factor. Rather, it is said that stability is important for the premium procedures required to reimburse a currency lock. It is thus being proved that it is important that the collective agreements do not promote instability. Then there's an inexpensive pension debt of the B and A, and behind the future calculus is also uncertain. Hv. A senator pointed out that there was no way to address the problem of a camp loan fund in the program that is thought - provoking where there was a way to provide and address the problem. Then there are domestic and national markets and loss of income or counterweight measures due to economic trauma if there is a natural problem, financial failure, or anything more understandable. Regarding the irregularity of the team, I can understand that they are set aside to evaluate the plan. [[Up front.]] They're taken back, and then we get the same numbers to evaluate back in time. [[The president calls.]] That is why I understand that the irregular joints are taken away, but they certainly contain large amounts of money.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u6	A respectable president. I'm gonna grab the ball on the side of the irregular team because it calls attention to how much money this is and a lot of teams. I don't know if I understood why. A senator right, but I don't quite agree that all these teams should be taken away, e.g. reimbursed prices that are 18 billion next year and that will not be the story. A lot of what's around here will always cost you. We have interest fees that are now 70 to 80 billion. Pension commitments remain, that joint does not disappear, but with an apartment loan debt, there is a greater risk and no cost is expected in 2018. This year, I ask myself why. A senator would agree with me that under these irregular teams, they should be a team that we don't fully see the cost at hand. Even the cost is one year and not another. Perhaps the answer is unemployment, but can we not be sure that it will be one of 20 billion just ahead of time because of an oldcommunicate funds that are not supposed to be laying down? Why is that an irregular feature? I singled out the chart on page 20. 40 and I read it extensively because I find it unique to take 160 billion people out of parentheses and label those who are called irregular joints.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u7	Mr. President. I can totally say that it's the highest amount taken away in irregular groups. As I said before, though, I understand that these joints are taken aside. I think it's important to have a comparison with and without irregular joints. These are teams that can rock according to the circumstances, even though we can say: Yes, there is always some unemployment, an equation goes hand in hand with a trust fund, etc. Without me defending the national budget specifically and the format, I don't think this is a big thing if we get to see the comparison so we can understand the situation and the changes between years without irregular joints. [[Up front.]] We can also compare changes from year to year with these joints. It's kind of hard to start changing it now if we want to look at the evolution process, what the trend is on both the income and the paying side, if we start changing this list and installing something one year and taking out another year. In itself, it might make it difficult for us to perform our own surveillance. I see it this way, but of course it's only a matter of view and of how best to treat them with the view that we get the best sense of what things are really like and how we can compare them from year to year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u8	A respectable president. On page 18. Thirty - three are talking about the tax issues and says at the bottom of the page, with the permission of a president: In addition, the preparation of the next step in the process starting in 2014 will continue to simplify and reduce income taxation, reducing the range between the lowest tax points, with the final objective of reducing them to one step. This procedure is thought to be an important factor in simplifying the tax system, improving its effectiveness, and providing additional resources. It's not going to happen much, but I'd say it's a pretty big decision. In fact, a step - apart income tax system is an equation device, and when a worth - price tax was raised on assessment, the argument was that worth tax was not the best way to equal it. Then you would expect some other way if you wanted to use the tax system to increase the equation. If you're both going to increase the value tax on basic items, which, of course, are more and worse on the smaller ones, and also add up to one step, I have to say that I'm not exactly how or if we're going to go over to try to level the tax system, save the less fortunate, and leave more of those with more taxes. I would be interested to hear what a former financial minister has to say about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u9	Mr. President. I am very pleased with the changes made in the income tax system during the last terms of a step - apart system. Like what? A senator came on to see us by means of a gradual tax system in order for the system to pass money into the state fund while contributing to an increase in the community, which is certainly desirable. The policy of this government is to simplify the income tax system. Just like what? However, a senator pointed out that consumer tax was not a good equation device when it was being reasoned on the merit tax change. Like what? A senator might suggest, since these arguments were used for the change in the consumption system, a step- apart income tax system should be maintained. It really does contribute to equality. As I said in my speech, however, this policy issue is not going to take much space in the fiscal budget. For example, the cost of this tax system is not addressed, nor will who will enjoy it when the middle step is taken away, what this means for the money of the state, and who will most enjoy it. It would have had to be part of the plan. Tolls, insurance expenditures, vehicle taxation, and changes in cost taxes in liquor sales, and other costs are picked up, and the result is that in 2016 it will be 2 billion in less money to the state's budget and at a maximum of 6 billion 2019. [[The president calls.]] It would be interesting to have a further analysis of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u10	President. Like many senators who have preceded me in this discussion, I rejoice that this bill is done, not necessarily because I'm so happy with all that it says, but because I think there's a great stage in working out the budget of this country, that a four-year budget is proposed. It's been done here and it's supposed to be a celebration. However, this strategy clearly shows, if statistics and other factors, that this financial plan reflects the policy of the government. It's all for itself a perfectly normal, respectable president, how would that be different? As this government has shown in the past two years, it is not equal to the government. She's not very social. It has been so obvious that it has benefited the best in this society as the others have been put on a bit. For proof of this, I'd like to point out my private intake. On page 18. 6 The document will appear, with permission of the President: ▪ At the end of the forecasting period, the proportion of private consumption of land production will be 52%, a moderate below the long term average of 57%.◯ The government aims to increase personal consumption in the country. There's nothing bad about increasing personal consumption, but it's bad if it, for example, becomes an increase in hospital costs and things we think should be in the common social system moving on to personal consumption. Then it's not a good thing. To compare this with what is stated in the program, the government's income is expected to drop from 28.2% of gross domestic product in 2015 to 26.7% in 2019. This means that the combination is to be reduced. And what's the combination? Social consumption is the kind of service we're all doing together in the country, the social security, the health system, the education system, that we as superiors view as the cornerstone of the society we want to build up. That's why I don't think it's a good message. On page 18. 6 In fact, it also says, to continue with the co-medication: The interpolation rate in the collapse is predicted to increase by approximately 1.5% annually over the years. The rate of failure typically increased by about 4%; in the majority of the population, it was about four percent. We are always talking about a proportion of GDP, so now the increase is 1.5% after all the contractions and after all that had to be done to get the national plant back on track. This combination should be increased by 1.5% annually compared to 4% annually prior to collapse. I don't think this is good news. It is quite clear that this document shows the very clear focus of the government, if I may say so. It's called a relief from taxes and stuff like that. I would like to state here in my brief suggestion that I am both surprised and disappointed that there is no further emphasis on a reduction in insurance. Insurance is the tax that would put the little companies in the country's best place to be reduced, that's the tax that's the worst paying for these companies. The insurance fee is for sure, but there's so little to say about it that there's hardly a word for that a doer, a respectable president. This is quite strange to me, especially in view of the fact that the small companies are the very object of growth in our society that we need to be aware of. A respectable president. When I'm at the highest. The minister spoke before the weekend. He concluded his talk with great emphasis on the fact that the economic forecast of this was a very bright time in the nation's economic affairs. A very bright time and like never before, he said. I must say, surely we must all rejoice if it is true, though we are, as a law assumes or politics assumes, not of how we divide this vast financial gain into the highest degree. Minister thinks we're due. Then I'd also like to say that there's a lot of uncertainty about this financial advantage. It has a large part of the currency business and also a bargain agreement. We all know how the labour market situation is now, and that's the second uncertainty factor. In this fight we're in, the state is a direct contract with BHM, it's clear, the state is supposed to negotiate with BHM. The government is continuing with the 3.5%, I understand, which he claims to be able to negotiate, and this is the state that is delegating 10 billion on wealth taxes, waiving us from hunting expenses, and saying that he is about to eat mackerel. According to one estimate, there are in the range of 100◯150, some of which are listed to 170, billion, who are to deliver the produce and the private sector of the country by that method. At the same time, people cannot be paid a decent salary in this country. If the money in the country was higher, perhaps there would be no need to cancel the cost of children's clothes, and rent payments would not have to be as high. So much in the economy would get better if the money in the country was nice, so I just put it that way. A respectable president. At the end of my talk, I would like to say that I miss candidates for the discussion. Hv. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson certainly spoke for the weekend, but other candidates have not spoken here and are not seen. I think I described in this speech that I could believe that the emphasis on this was not very appealing to social - minded candidates. Right at the end, I would like to remind you that there is no mention of the highest rent. Minister of society and housing may volunteer after a year or so, or two, I don't know when that will be. But there's no plan for them here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u11	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. She talked a lot about just personal consumption and the combination. The combination is now drawing together, at least decreasing, and if this continues, there is little historical evidence. Of course, what happens at the retail market matters, and that's exactly what I want to roll up here. There are careful and conservative employees in the program and hardly in line with the requirements we now see in the market, so my opinion is that, and I ask. A senator whether she shares it with me, that the plan contains so many uncertainty factors, and that it is unrealistic not to assume more money promotions in general than is required in this council arrangement. There's one thing. Then I want to think about investments and maintenance. We haven't yet been able to see a transport plan, that's one of the uncertainty factors. It doesn't seem to be expected for investment and maintenance or anything like that here, it just doesn't seem to be looking at the kind of needs in the eye. When they're putting out a policy document, because it was the highest. Minister said that this is a policy document, when such major factors are out of parentheses, you can talk about them when they are not expected as if they were saved and maintained, and we know that these types of employers don't stand up, so what's their policy? What's the strategy? That's why I ask the senator if she agrees with me that this document, as fine as it is that it comes out, may not be able to handle it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u12	A respectable president. Maybe the plow doesn't hold up the testicle of time. Hv. A senator talks about the remuneration. I would have felt, and I feel, that in cops like this one, since these employees are expected to set up what happens. We have a raise of 3.5% in pay. What happens if it gets 5% or 7% so it's shown in a frame? There is certainly a danger of failure. What if there is a higher salary than expected? The health system would naturally take some of these remunerations, but there is more to pay, and there is a risk that they will be cut off by another. It has been shown during the discussion that people are concerned about investments and maintenance and that the road system, perhaps especially, has not been suggested. That is not specifically mentioned. It's very scary because investments are for the future. Although it is a good and blessed plan for a four - year plan, we may want to see in the four - year plan that we were thinking about a longer future, which was seen in investments.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u13	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I'm saying that especially when you're talking about a policy package, you feel that there should be at least as much as possible to set reasonable criteria. There's no question that I know that this piece of paper is not done. It's not all bad, it's not, it's not, but it's so loosed that I don't think it's going to take a little change, it's a big change. I'd like to come into the tourism service for a minute. It is stated in the synopsis that the production of tourism is low, and we know that even though it has grown most of all the points here. There is no need to increase the level of education and production. It has been discussed that there are some indications that this article no longer needs taxes, that it is essentially sub taxated. For example, in this national budget program it is not addressed that the stay up to the top level and it could be 5 billion if it went up to 24% if we even looked up to calculations in 2012. Because of what? A senator came to see what the government would have done to him, and I asked her if she agrees that the administration is no longer needed and if it is supposed to go up to the upper level. Yeah, well, that's mostly because I guess it needs to be introduced at a good time. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We know the discussion that we cannot compare it all with short notice.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u14	A respectable president. This may be one of the biggest challenges we face, how to organize our tourism so that it will bring more than it does today. I thought of it in the autumn of 2012 when I was supposed to take the merit tax to the top, so if I was at that point, I certainly haven't changed my mind in that subject. You're right next door. Senator, we need to do this on our own, and the one who would soon be the first to tell us that is the highest. A minister who is now doing a cook at the natural pass because she was so opposed to a valuable extra tax in a rooming service at her time. Now, it's all the management board, and I don't know if this thing about tourism is an entertainment story or a sad story, it's either. It's mainly the funds in the country that we have to prepare that tourism is making more money than it does today. I don't know the answer right now, but this is one of the big projects we're facing. Of course, we are happy that this service thrives as it does, which has a low - paying job, and it is boring that by 2015 the expansion is a low - paying job. I'm about to take all taxpayers away from this article. She doesn't need them anymore. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u15	A respectable president. First, I want to make it clear that when you look at this government budget on how vulnerable we are now in the economy, how successful we have been in recent years and how well the foundation of the last government has set before the government in these years, how vulnerable this economic improvement is, how much danger lies ahead, and how thin the budget is for the next year. It is based, for example, on the fact that the buying potential for growth in public workers to reach a maximum of 2% over inflation. During the past year, financial secretary has signed a number of collective agreements on a far higher than that. Today, the work of the League of colleges is being carried out, requiring a much richer raise than this one and to be hard to see how this alone is going to be met. On the one hand, you can see how fragile the basis for the economic recovery is when you look at several key sizes. Of course, I'm reviewing the developments on pages 121⁄213, which, of course, revealed the sad fact of the aftereffects, that this nation in the seas is building economic growth on uncomfortable weak foundations. The increase in production is evaporating from years of effort up to date, making it more likely that the large part of the economic recovery involved in increasing numbers of tourists will have a negative impact on the production. There is insufficient production in tourism. It is urgent to promote increased production and increase the building of valuables in this article, to support the development and structure of the article, to make it easier to increase prices, not to get in the way the government has done. It is also striking in this context that the total debt of state funds will remain virtually unchanged in the years to come. It is amazing to read the debt section and the discussion of debt from time to time. Page 19 and especially on page 20. 21◯24, in which a picture appears showing that the debt of state is expected to drop over the next few years in the black line as a factor in gross domestic product. On the other hand, everyone notices that his debt is not the same. This is just because the land production is growing that looks forward to an improvement in the proportion of people in debt. Thus, the share of the total wealth of GDP should take place over the next years from 58.8% to 49.4%. When you look at the rest of the discussion about the development of debt on page 6. 21 and continued, all the benefits in reducing the debt of the state's debt are bound to sell 30% at the Lands Bank. Its leaders are very weak under the present circumstances. There is nothing to be said about the removal of a penitentiary, except for the miscalculation of a statement at the highest level. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. Secretary of finance. No one, in effect, knows the direction of the Federal penalties, and then it is the most urgent project of the government to bring in two bills, one to overthrow the head of the Federal Bank and to side with his professional management with three bank managers to ensure the party members of the current management board in the Federal Commission and the other bill for putting down the Bank of the State and thereby laying down the professional career of selling property in banks that had previously been established. It's a terrible introduction to some of the ideas of going into debt. These bills do not make it easier to decommission. Selling 30% of the State in the Lands Bank is a forest bird under these circumstances. It is also interesting to read the discussion on page 19. 22 About Iceland's Expansion and the film on page 22 23 of Iceland's interest costs, compared with other European countries since 2013. Iceland has the largest interest costs, 11% of GDP, more interest costs than any European nation. It states on page 19. 22, with permission to the top. President: The European Union is more than any EU Member State, whether as a proportion of total expenditures or as a share of gross domestic product. As a ratio of total expenses, the annual interest cost is around the country. two-fold higher than the average European Union, although most of these countries have long been expected to represent up to too much debt, or about 11% vs 5.6% on average [in the European Union] in 2013. For example, this proportion was 6.7% in Greece. -11% here. A respectable president. In a report at the highest. According to the financial secretary, although the government debt in Iceland is considerably lower than that in the EU, about 90% of GDP here, for example 175% in Greece, 128% in Portugal, 128% in Italy, and 123% in Ireland, Iceland has twice as much GDP as Greece. Nothing better describes the tremendous difference between Iceland's growth rate and the European Union on international markets. It's sad to see here the confirmation of the highest. A minister of finance claims that the cost of military service is such that we have twice as much money as the money of the Greeks. We cost twice as much as the Greeks out of half the debt. I must call for some members of the management team to come up here, and once again they sing about the flexibility of the Icelandic crown and the benefits that the nation has of the Icelandic crown when it comes to reaching out to pay off the debt of the state much easier if we use less interest in public debt as if we were involved in the European currency union. As a result, this program is expected to include a higher share in the state spending and, therefore, a greater degree of contracture. We will have to accept less public service in order to pay the interest bill that comes with the Icelandic dollar. It's right in front of us. We will have to work hard in the cutoffs of public expenditures, but the European Union is about to make such a big difference in interest fees. A respectable president. Unfortunately, I don't have time to cover all aspects of this national budget. There's a lot left that I haven't had time to mention. One last thing, on page 20. 32 reports on the effects of changes in the tax system on the 2016 ◯2019 income programme. That's a bit of a big reading, a respectable president. The reduction in insurance costs will decrease income by 2.8 billion compared to 2014. It is very important and a great deal of gratitude and a great deal of satisfaction that in this way the pay-off is reduced, but a special personal discount due to the correction of the debt weighs 5.7 billion, in other words more than double what the reduction of the insurance bill weighs in the financial budget. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] How much did they take that time of debt? How costly and unacceptable was it, and how much better could it have been to spend that money for all of us?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u16	A respectable president. I'm sure one of the most interesting pages here is page 22. A senator was quoting about government interest rates. As correctly noted, it is greater than any EU Member State and is more than the interest cost of Greece. This suggests that the interest rates we offer are far inferior to other countries. This is no doubt explained to some extent because it became a total crash a few years ago and that we will regain confidence in international markets, but it cannot be understood otherwise than that it inhibits our having the Icelandic crown. I'd like to think about something. If we were to pick up a currency like Euro, I know we were. A senator argues there, and this would improve Icelandic society, in what way would that ensure a better growth? Does it not still matter that we have confidence in governments and that we have economicism, a vision, and that all of that is okay? You know, friends abroad are very low, but you think about it in horror when growth begins, which they'll probably do sometime if there's a small inflation in our major business and neighboring countries. This, of course, will increase the rate of growth. What, then, will be the result? We're talking about 70 to 80 billion on interest costs per year just for the next few years. [[The president calls.]] We'd have to lower our debt.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u17	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. First, it is quite right. One member of the United States says, as there is increasing growth both on international markets and within the country, the Kingdom's growth rate will rise over the next few years. That's also evident in the plan. You're right. Of course, when it comes to terms with growth, a senator says, belief in the State is important, that is not just the interest of the estate of the euro. When uncertainty has been most severe, as in the case of Greece and Ireland, there have been times when this country has been exposed to the benefits offered in Iceland. The situation, however, is just now that all European countries have a lower rate of growth in their state's debt than Iceland, considerably lower. Even countries with a much higher debt rate, such as Ireland, have very good interest, Greece, even now that uncertainty has increased the state of Greece following a political exchange than the Greeks received in the late part of the last year, which was much more favourable than the ones offered in Iceland. How sobering it is to think that even a state of very serious debt problems that can hardly guarantee social solidarity on subsidies, however, should receive a better rate of debt than the U.S. government! It tells us that the foundation we have is against us. It's a tremendous lack of faith and, of course, the risk of an Icelandic crown, which comes with Iceland as an independent currency area. It has been completely overlooked for the high economic gains of open and free trades in currency markets and access to loans on international markets would have been available for Iceland. [[The president calls.]] We see this in the case of all the Baltic States. They've reached a much faster turn around than we do. We can also see this in the case of Ireland, where we have reached a faster turn than we have. We are trapped in saws, high debts, and a huge weight of interest.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u18	A respectable president. I appreciate that answer, and I agree with it as a matter of course. A senator said here. I feel completely incomprehensible about this currency of ours. We have not even begun talking about the cost of holding out a currency reserve and that homes should not call for a lower interest level for their mortgages and avoid the risk of going. It is remarkable that we are not discussing each future currency of this country to be here every day, but that is not the case. Perhaps we need to be more diligent in putting it on the schedule. On page 18. 40 people are talking about irregular groups, and there are contributions to an apartment loan fund. There is an estimated 2.3 billion 2016 and 1 billion 2017, and there is really nothing more, i.e. The state will not contribute more funding to the apartment loans. I feel that there is no need, especially in terms of camp loan funds, other teams here called irregular, some future policies and what really are being done. We know that the camp loan problem is very much. In view of the problem. A senator has experience as a minister and a senator and may know this better, but I'm just wondering if this is practical. At first glance, I find it quite optimistic to assume that we do not have to make more money since 2018. Don't we just need action on a camp loan fund, somehow trying to figure out how we're going to do this and limit the expense that the taxpayers really pay because they're driving an ice loan to the state's responsibility?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u19	A respectable president. First, the general state interest rate and the idea of a joint currency to reduce that cost. I think this is a show that has completely disappeared under the radar of a Icelandic political debate. It's just that people haven't talked about it. People watch news from Greece and assume that it is a situation that has some enormous precedent for Iceland. The fact is, though, that the burden of Greek growth, as can clearly be seen in public data, is less than the weight of Icelanders as a proportion of GDP. The difference is that Iceland enjoys good infrastructure. In the 1970's and 1980's, we lived under the head of officers making a tax system that ensures that all citizens in the country can be taxed. It's just not possible in Greece. There, the same small middle class always pays the taxes. The privileges of avoiding paying taxes, as they did during the reigns of the Independence Party for decades, were able to pay taxes by trade and free from carrying their share of the combination. By the end of the 1980's and early 1990's, we were blessed with an end to it. A respectable president. Hv. A senator asked for an apartment loan fund. I don't think this is a good idea. It says in one place earlier in the plan that the fund's growth model is not sustainable. It means in English that unless you create a new model, he will continue to return the loss indefinitely. I agree with what. A senator says that a fundamental change is needed. Each member of the State's role in supporting it needs to be well - thought - out, whether the State will support the raising of people, especially those who do not have money to do so in other ways. [[The president calls.]] However, it must be done in a way that will result in maximum wrongdoing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u20	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I'm not going to go out into the interest, I'm going to talk to him about what he may not be involved in his speech, and that's, like, enough to take. o p.................... 24 is talking about the prenup in the B Department of Pension, which studies about 5 billion each year starting 2017. It speaks of a provision for loans in a pile of funds to come in. I understand that it means that the account on the foundation should produce 5 billion for an increase of hand-made funds so that this is taken care of, as indicated here. I've seen, not that it's expected not to be borrowed, but that it's a good money, that it's gonna be enough. Does the senator agree with me that this piece of paper is not visible? There's something else I'd like to talk about, including... It's the aging thing. It speaks of the government's policy center until the next year, but we don't see that there's a budget being placed on the land hospital. It is not predictable when to build the therapeutic core. It is not said that nursing homes and nursing institutions should be continued only in the report. It was shown by the highest. A health minister the other day said that there was a great need, as we know. Can the senator agree that this calls for additional funds in the elderly if the way to nursing is to continue? There are no results in this schedule. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u21	A respectable president. I can be quick to answer the previous question. Senator. I don't know the basis for it so that I can have strong opinions, but I rely on it. A senator knows more about this than I do, as she serves on a budget committee and is familiar with all aspects of these matters. In terms of aging, however, they are a big hobby for me as well as a nursing home structure. It is true that in this program, there is no progress in improving the need. There are already hundreds of people waiting in urgent need, especially in the capital area and in Reykjavík itself. Even though home service will be improved, there is still a growing need for service in the years to come. I've asked a lot of things, both the highest. Secretary of the budget and the highest. A health minister and they answer east and west on these issues. V.E.G. A health minister speaks of the need to find ways to build up the building up, but he has not provided clear suggestions. V.E.G. The secretary of finance has spoken the rented route down, but at the same time, he gave a budget bill in the fall that became a law that in the second year took all the money that was an unscrupulous father of the elderly and used in nursing business. It makes me feel that energy is very critical, not just due energy, but completely unacceptable once it has been measured in terms of government. We did this as an emergency, I think for two of my recession days, not all the years of depression. However, we took money on the road from the elderly's enterprise fund, which is the long - term structure paid by the project fund over the years. [[The president calls.]] It lacks the vision of the government whether to borrow or to raise money for this. I might be able to find a better way to find out in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u22	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. As I said, I don't see the very idea that there is a guardian of the future events of this nursing facility's building. True, we know that many rural societies have been in poor condition and could not be involved in the structure, but this does not change the future view, to be the case, and therefore I believe that this attitude should have been made clearer by the minister. There's another link I'd like to mention. On page 18. 36 is calculated as a greater rate of interest in a number of judicial categories, including this demographic development and the built - in system growth. There is 3% absolute growth in pensions and S-marked drugs and 2% in pension bonds. I have serious doubts about S-marker medication's plan. They have gone up very much in recent years, as we know and at the highest level. Minister said we've got a little tight on it, but I thought it was forgotten we haven't taken any new S-labelled drugs, so I don't think that there's a cumulative need for these things. I'm asking why. A senator would agree with me on that. I know we both believe that the key priority for economic growth is equal. Here I feel like a completely masked right direction on page 6. With regard to tax policy, 34 and 35 are spoken of as cutting down the tax steps and making them one. I think we left people have to fight it with our mouths and mouths. In the rest, for all of the reasons for the role of this strategy to meet the need to improve social security by 1% above inflation, to be walked unchanged, etc., this is a policy that does not pass. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u23	A respectable president. First, in the case of nursing homes, I think the government is simply going away in this case. V.E.G. Secretary of health and the highest. The minister of finance has seen things worse than the policy we set in our government season for nursing homes to be built into people's homes. They have told her too much; in other words, older people have been too generous. I find it very difficult to buy these explanations, and I don't quite understand that a hole in the government's head is putting people down to a small band and that it's an independent goal. The high cost of a nursing home is so high that no one can handle more than a three - year space. In other words, building space costs the business for three years, that's all. When it comes to this, I feel overwhelmed by men, and I sort of hide behind this construction cost as a reason not to do anything in the building of a nursing home. This is unacceptable to me, for there is a need, and it is urgent. Then I can agree with what. A senator's concern over a tax policy. The death of the Independence Party to disseminate a step - apart income tax system is in no way consistent with the latest ideas on the importance of a worldwide community model. In fact, the OECD and the International Cash Fund have made reports on the importance of spending more fully as they are wealthy and find ways to do so. It is enough to mention Thomas Pikettyr's book, which has become the best - selling book during the last loss, in which all over the world is trying to find new ways to use the tax system prosthesis to reduce roughness and to make more efficient efforts. [[The president calls.]] This government, with decades of applause and archaic theories, brings them into operation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u24	A respectable president. First, I'd like to celebrate that we're making our first pact of state-of-the-art proposal for a four-year budget that should've been submitted last year, which was granted an exception. This is fine, although I may have expected to see a government policy better. I also miss not talking about exchanges, i.e. Frame. This is as far as it goes, but there are a few things I would like to discuss. We're gonna go for a second. Senators have been talking about debt. They certainly lower as a proportion of GDP, not as a name. This is a risk because we have enormously high interest costs. As noted above, we are paying more interest costs as a factor in GDP than in all EU Member States. That's a lot of concern. We also know that interest rates are just as good. Although we are clearly better off than many others, growth is still low at this time, simply because in many countries the level of prices is levelless and the economy is being promoted. It does not take much to raise this interest cost, which is now 70,480 billion a year. That's why it's so important to lower the debt and reduce it to a name. I have to say, I had used the 80 to 100 billion people who went into debt to pay off the debt of state funds. That would have been a general amount of debt, i.e. We would have dropped all our debts. However, that was not done. There have also been reports of investment rates, and many have expressed concern that little is taking place when it comes to investments. Here I feel that my policy is somewhat vague, except that there's nothing to do. It speaks of design at the Center of Treatment at the National Hospital of University Hospital and the construction of a medical hotel, talking about just over 5 billion during this period, up to 2019. So says the president's permission, on page 20. 20: The aim of maintaining the state investment level at least to equal budgets for 2015 as a proportion of GDP, or 1.2% of GDP. This means that new unscrupulous tasks will replace those that will be completed during the period... If this is to be some dating document, it cannot be written here that new uninjured tasks will replace existing ones. We're talking about four years into the future, and you have to make the requirement that we plan four years ahead of the big investment unless you're talking about design on the treatment core and the hospital. It's supposed to be finished with the North Ground tunnel, Hólmsheh and what's already going on. For the next four years, I feel that this is a disgrace, and we may need to be more successful in following the government's investment policy. Hide it in these some sentence on page 18. Twenty-one? Then there is something else I can see, the tax policy on page 18. 34. I notice that a review of the worthy tax system should simplify it. There are many things I could quite agree with, so simplifying can be helpful. When the merchandise was removed, I thought it was a very good step. Even tourism is being suggested as to some change. But what I notice here is that the next items to be taken into account are alcohol dealers, spares, and services purchased from abroad, including the U.S. The network store, and I like it if there's more to look at. A report was submitted to the secretary of finance on the Internet and suggested that a small package could be brought in for smaller amounts, and this was not a punishment for consumers by paying them all kinds of expenses. I can't wait to see the layout. What I would really like to discuss is that it says that there will be a simple process and a lower income taxation of individuals by decreasing the range between the lowest tax steps with the final objective of adding them to one step. I need to be convinced that this is a good idea. This is political news to me if this is my goal because I think the gradual tax system is a good way to equal it. I spoke in a talk before one day. A senator's view that elevations in the lower level of merit taxation were due, among other things, by not having a low value tax, even on food. How, then, will people try to level and make more available to those who have most in their hands? This is what we need to talk to the highest. A minister who could come back if he's somewhere and explain it. I also run my eyes on the S-labelled medication on page 2. 36. It's all old news from here with me. They've only been on board with us on a budget board because their growth has been high and this is expected to be 3% interest in both pension and S-marked drugs and 2% in pensional commitments. This may not be possible unless we're just not taking any new medicines. It may well be the idea. I'll jump back for the taxes a little. I'm glad to see the carpets around the Internet, but I'm not sure that there should be some operation to reduce tolls on exported agricultural products. That doesn't seem to be the policy. I would like to make some comments about the irregularities on the page. 40 are called irregular because many of these are not irregular, as they are. Then I would feel that we should likewise put the management of a Land Hospital in this table or the payment of an insurance agency or other team that goes back and forth and on and off and is often over the budget. This is something I would like to take a closer look at, i.e. The exact definition of irregular joints. Why do we take any of these irregular forces outside parentheses if these are not monopolis, something that is then done just like the innuendo on the prices of housing? The plan is interesting and news, but I would have liked to see a little more clearly the precise policy of the government in many matters, such as an investment.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u25	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Hv. A senator says that she misss such policies, and I expect them to happen. A senator wishes to have a more precise policy than is stated up to this time. I'd like to ask you what. A senator on the job with his head. The plan will do well with regard to tourism that further growth is expected in this article. We know that a million tourists arrived in 2014, and they have increased by 20% in recent years; now the largest export work has been since 2013. However, there is no economic growth, and there is a problem. This subject is discussed on page 19. 12 and 13 of the State budget, as well as the evidence that the article is being overheating. I want to ask you why. A senator will agree with this and whether it has any idea of what the policy should be about the growth of these sectors. Although it's good that tourism is growing, it doesn't feel good that tourism, as fluctuated as it is, is one of the main jobs, as it turns out that unemployment among high school students and industrial workers has been reduced. That is exactly what is stated on page 18. 10 in the program, however, the number of unemployed academics is increasing. [[The president calls.]] This is the development of such rapid growth in these sectors. [[The president calls.]] I want to ask you why. A senator on the subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u26	A respectable president. Yes, I wish I had the answer to that question about whether there is much in general in this article, but, of course, it really matters to us immensely much, especially about the currency industry. I thought it was a very strange decision, the first case of the 2013 Government at the summer council, to cancel the cost of a resupervising from the lowest level to 14%; a person felt that it was something a travel service should be capable of and would have delivered to us a billion or even two in the box. There would have been enough money to cover tourism projects. Increasing your stay up to 24% - it must really be the goal that in the end there are no coincidences. However, I can understand in some respects the concern that in the case of a very expensive stay, such as in Denmark, it can affect the flow of tourists. We may also need to ask ourselves, " How many tourists do we want? ' Do we want to get more out of those coming? That could be a course. But when we talk about travel policies, it's been incredibly unremarkable. I find it interesting what's going on right now when the Blue Lion is limiting access to the Blue lagoon. I think it's evidence that you realize that you can't continue on the way that there's a risk of damaging tourists. Although we make up for it today, in five years the reputation may have been so great that people don't want to go to the Blue lag. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So I think it's a really good thing for them to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u27	A respectable president. I'd like to quote here on the plan. It says, by permission of the President: The cost of the State is very important to government management, but this once again has a major impact on the growth rates of rural and commercial sectors. Great financial interests have to do with maintaining and strengthening trust in government policy. I agree completely with this, as the budget shows. But I'd like to ask why. A senator whether she agrees with me in suggesting that the 30% share at the Lands Bank be sold to pay off debt, and that is exactly one of the most urgent projects in the budget of paying off debt, the other member of the board of directors living on this highest level. Government, disagree with this route, I'm asking if it doesn't feel that this is a loss of trust in government policy. Governments?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u28	A respectable president. How refreshing it would be if the government groups were to agree more fully on many matters and benefits! Of course, about selling shares at the Lands Bank - we have some small parts in the other banks too - I don't necessarily object to that. As I mentioned in my speech, both the interest costs and the risks are because we're so debted that if we can sell a share at the Bank, and get an acceptable price for it, I think we need to take a serious look at it. I wouldn't oppose it. It's not like they didn't take loans to save the banks, so we have to pay them down. For the tourism I was going to come in earlier: Of course, it is very important to eliminate black activity in tourism. [[The president calls.]] Business enterprises that are honest cannot support the fact that the article is dominated by a black job, but we know that this is an example, that it just needs to be eradicated. That's where we make our income.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u29	V.E.G. President. There's no one who's been watching the discussion here that we're dealing with a financial program. I'm going to repeat my pleasure with the fact that it's performing for the first time, it's a breakthrough, in accordance with the council. Thank you for your speaking and for your time. paritaprevir Her Pétursdóttir, Brynhildur, had a fine speech. It was noted in the previous talk that we were called after the candidates for this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u30	We always miss you.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u31	I love to hear it, and here I am. I miss an assembly in the positive tone that can be read out of the budget, such as turning from an increase in debt collection, certainly, that's the economy for the next four years, increase in money, unemployment is going down, employment investment is on the rise, there's rest in the state budget for these four years and two years ahead. Six years straight, giving us a chance to win over the debt of state funds. I think it's the policy and the plan that's going to show up on the real world. On the bottom of the list. 22 says that compared with other countries, this indicates that the growth rate offered by the Icelandic government is far less than any other country has access to capital markets. We've had some words for the past few years. There's nothing to hide here. That's the situation, all right. [[The president calls.]] I want to ask you why. A senator: Does she believe that we could have started this journey sooner, turning away from debt and paying off interest charges? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u32	A respectable president. You're right. A senator says there's a lot of positive things here. Of course, you too should talk about what is well done, but in ten minutes you still decide to handle the criticism. But this is true, and, for example, we've managed to close the budgethole very well. I've talked about it to what? A member of the council earlier that I had used these 80 to 100 billion people who went into debt to their homes to pay off the debt of state funds because it is the debt of all of us, and thus we would have saved billions of dollars each year for interest costs. As far as I'm next able, we're going to pay a lot off debts, but since the economy will grow with each year, these interest costs will decrease as a proportion of GDP. I don't think we're doing enough, because this big debt is too much of a risk factor. So I feel that selling the item at the Lands Bank and paying off the loans is an option, but it is not to say that the State is in a good position now to pay off the loans. We know what's on the budget board, and why. A senator has also sat there, that there is a great need for money in many areas and is not easy to cut down. I can't say that I can see any right-hand cashier, a left that I could cross out, there's more to that, if possible, to manipulate the institutions or other things, but I don't see any spectacular savings around here and now in the state, not so that we can pay off a loan with some overage. Therefore, we need to be realistic and watch that we want to increase our income and sell what we are willing to sell, such as perhaps part of the Bank of Lands. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u33	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Brynhildur Pétursdóttir's daughter's spirit for her answers. We debate a lot of opinions. In fact, we disagree completely on the priorities of the home's debt correction. I'm very pleased and proud of the operation, so it's said, and because the debt rate of homes and companies is falling. It can be reasoned that it is a semi-rent procedure to leave that way and then take on the debt of state under these circumstances. But it would be too much to reason with. Hv. A senator introduced the tax system. I share her opinions on an equation effect on the income tax system as well as on the merits of the bill. What do you think? A senator's aim is to take one step in terms of worth?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u34	A respectable president. I am very open to conclude one step if we meet in some way with various articles, such as a culture where we have been raising the sink, which may not be a good step. If we were to raise more money to form in culture, I would be quite willing to end up in one step. What I have thought was lacking is that I don't see any government policy about ending in one step. What should this step be? 20% or 10% or what are we talking about? I think it's important that we see where we're really going. Even if you don't have an exception, have just one step, and then make it right, such as. food and other products, could be reduced toll on imported agrienvironment products. [[The president calls.]] There are various ways to reduce the cost at an assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u35	Mr. President. I'm like a whisk. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson was pleased with a government budget that would work. I think it's very good that she's out for the first time and that it was working like a dog. A senator knows at his time in the former government. It doesn't matter who started it. She's a good machine. It enables us to plan ahead. But at the same time, she's a little bit so bitter a mirror that I think of a seating government policy. What, then, is our role as a ruler? It's just part of the interaction between the power of the board like ours that as soon as we have to celebrate what is positive, our role in supporting it is to point out the weaknesses that may be. I find weaknesses in this excellent bill, e.g. that at the same time as humans draw up positive things, there are weak foundations here and where you look deeper. For example, the current labour market conflicts are assumed to be very successful in terms of government funds, and I see that a 2% increase in money is expected to be made up to public employees. At the same time, just as the spokesman of the management team earlier showed, everything is going very well. Also, we are going to one of the most dangerous and careful operations in the history of the Republic, decommissioning a currency pot, creating a lot of uncertainty. The most important thing to me is that there is almost no decrease in debt. The commitment rate remains unchanged, but this reduces the proportion of increase in domestic production. At the same time, however, the bill shows that taxes, probably 35 billion, have been cut off. If I take away the taxes I agreed on would be taken away, it's still been dropped by 27 billion. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm asking why. A senator: Would it not have been wiser to keep them a little longer and actually pay off the debt of a state fund?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u36	A respectable president. Yes, as I mentioned earlier, it was the first issue of the government to cancel the cost of a resurgence rate, where we became hundreds of millions in 2013, even 1.5 billion in 2014, which would certainly have been even more because there were more tourists than we anticipated. There was money that I think we could have gotten in the Kingdom Box very easily without anyone having experienced it and the tourists not complaining about it. It is true that there are many uncertainty factors, and this has been recognized here by the minister of finance and the Ministry of finance. It's a decommissionment and a heart-to-heart conversation. You almost feel like an apartment loan fund has become a small risk factor for two people. It's true that it's good to have this plan here for the first time. It's some sort of a problem with what should come along. When we agree with the laws on public finances, we need to have a detailed plan and it needs to be more detailed than this, and it also needs to have a frame, we need to know what the Ministry for itself has to do with it. So I think it's a little bit of practice because I don't think the plan is accurate or decisive enough. I'm just calling in my investments. What's the policy there? The government's investment policy for the next four years is actually designed for the treatment core of the Land Hospital and the building of a hospital hotel and to complete the Norwegian tunnel and complete the Hólar. It's the investment policy, as I understand it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u37	Mr. President. We hope that things will turn out well and that these weaknesses will never be realized. But the big weaknesses are a few, the ones we've been discussing here, first of all, what are those bargains smelling like? The government gives itself what they smell like, with a 2% increase in money. How do you smell how to take out a currency quack? There I believe that there is a potential benefit in reducing debt that is not calculated into this. The sale of the government at the Lands Bank, no matter what personal opinion we may have of it, is upset because one side of the government has virtually opposed it. A smaller factor I could mention, for example. Hospital. Hv. A senator specifically mentioned it earlier. It is not expected that any part of the State will be placed in the hospital. How should he be financed? Do not use the Lands Bank twice. I'm going to run a transport program. I don't see that there's no room to be expected to add to that. I'd like to ask you why. Senator: Isn't there a bit sharp and I don't say a screaming paradox between the state assuming that a financial growth in contracts with public employees will be 2% and at the same time when the future is drawn up so beautifully? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u38	I can actually agree with that. A senator said, this will work out that everything will turn out best and that a bargain will be entirely within limits. At some point, I asked if this year's project was expected, as it were. The doctors'increase, in effect, refers to this pot that has about 5 billion to cover such costs. I don't know if it'll do since next year, I won't say, but, of course, the budget bill in the fall will give the signal if there's an increase in pay that we expect. Compromise is clearly a major risk factor. One is tourism. We're beginning to talk like the tourists are here to stay. We also need to be careful that we keep up with these tourists and that we'll be careful when it's time to do so. The eruption we thought would scare us from tourists caused us to multiply the number. [[The president calls.]] There may be some things that may cause us to avoid becoming as attractive a tourist country as we are today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u39	V.E.G. President. I'd like to agree with those here who have proposed a resolution on the terms of a budget plan for the coming in 2016/2019 is a very positive step in preparing and making financial arrangements, in addition to what has often been followed by financial laws. The role of the State budget is to give the council the opportunity to shape policy over time for the Ministry of Economics, Ministers and Governments, so that financial laws are then based on what is decided here. Therefore, it is important that the government budget be developed so that before the Ministry of finance and the Ministry begin to replace money, they will have discussed the matter at the General Assembly and give the tone and, in fact, instructions on how to manage financial matters for the next year. It is interesting to have reports, one after the other, which reviews how the trend has been under way in recent years because, of course, we have passed through a very strange period of time, both with all the expansion of the period of 2000◯2008, where everything got out of hand and went out of hand and with a bank crash followed by 2008. It is interesting to see how the measures taken then have affected the financial situation, e.g. it is intriguing to consider the development of inflation and the power of pay. It has been observed that in the past two years or in the last two years since the start of this government, the cost of pay has been increasing. But it is natural to be very clear in the chart on the development of inflation and the level of wages that buypower is rising very quickly from 2010, then it is a little replaced, and now leaping to 2015. The increase in salary gain is expected to be similar over the next three years and was in 2010-2013, so the goal is not higher than that. But let us see what comes out of collective agreements now and what the consequences are for inflation and otherwise. It is also interesting to examine the fast - growing unemployment rate in 2008, reaching more than 9%, an enormously high Icelandic scale, and then to begin to decline further in 2010 and then to lower linearly. Of course, since 2010 the rate of unemployment has increased and between 3 and 4% is now being lost. It is also worth considering how the pay rate has changed, i.e. per cent of the pay costs of the sector's sector, which is called. It collapsed in 2009 from what it was the highest of 2005, 2006, and that is the case in history, with no precedent for how much it collapsed at that time. The pay ratio is rapidly returning, but it has not reached its previous levels in this regard. All of this is very important and must be observed. Also, when you look at the contribution of a Kingdom fund, it is fascinating to consider the developments that led to it. It has been pointed out that the period following a collapse has been followed by an enormous cut down on government expenses. This is reflected in stalwarts and plots of the gross loss of the Kingdom Fund in 2005◯2019, without irregular joints, of how the positive outcome suddenly changed into an enormous loss. And there is no overhistory of that collapse, we repeatedly pointed out that we got on ourselves, from having an almost debt of state, huge debt, and leaning on a treasure of more than 200 billion that had to be handed over in a short period of time. That's when they made it. It is shown very well on the pole chart in this plate from the highest level. The government and the Supreme Court. In 2013, a financial minister is nearly reached, an overall balance, that is, before elections. It cannot be minimized that this continues to improve, but it will be exciting to see how this anger continues because it is also stated in these evidence that the government has given up the money. It also makes it clear that there is a very small amount of loans and budgets for investments, and new investors are very limited. It is therefore difficult to see how government funds will go on the long run. We said at the time that we were trying to balance government funds, but at the same time, it was better to realize that we did not take our cutbacks more seriously than we did. We realized that back then, and I've been over it in a series of talks in 2012 that by then it was too long. But there is still talk of getting together at the government fund, in this document, about further efficiency and the reduction of the percentages of expenses to a particular category in relation to national production. For this, I'm very worried about it because it's the combination and the service to the people, including the health system, the education system, and the pension pay. What a concern it is if we are going to move more into our personal consumption, either by increasing the pay or by demeaning the ministry! There's no response to this document, it seems that the policy is to take an American/British route, where the consumption is reduced and transferred to a private intake. I mentioned that there were small investments, and this is interesting, considering the recent discussions and also the priorities that people have said they would put and actually sign and promise, i.e. improving the health system so that it will be competitive at the best of what happens in other parts of the North countries. We see here that new construction and rebuilding of new land hospitals are under way and the investments are generally very weak. I think it's a good investment, and it's very important, but at the same time almost nothing is involved in transport and other forms of affairs that are also extremely important. Despite criticism of this so - called bread crumbs theory, which includes taking good care of those who have most, people have been reliant about paying taxes, which will come back as bread crumbs for the lower classes. The criticism has been shown from both OECD and, even the World Bank Fund, to be careful not to overdo cuts and to make sure that people have money to eat. For the same purpose, the European nations have responded by reducing growth, even temporarily making negative growths to increase their consumption, but in Iceland we still follow in real life the tax reform theory. A closer look at this will show in this document that the income tax as a share of land production, the unit over the total population, was 2013, 16.8% increased in 2014 to 18% of land production, and 2015 is expected to fall to 17.7%. But in 2019 and actually for the next three years this program covers the income tax, 18.3% of gross domestic product, so in real life the new government takes more of it from income tax. However, they reduce the target tax, which was to be returned to 2.5%, by fall to 1.9% of land production. And that is exactly the wealth tax in which people return most of their means, but it does not include the general population of pay. Of course, there are major tasks that are missing in this section that would have had to be discussed and covered, e.g. that pensioners are expected to increase by 1% in power at the same time as the increase is 2% in overall salary transplant patients. There's nothing about the nursing home. I mentioned the new hospital before, and there is no such thing as housing improvements or housing benefits. Here we find the sale on the Bank of Lands, but we have not received the application's reaction, which concluded that the Bank should not be sold, how does that help us? [[The president calls.]] In this way you might pick up much more things you ask yourself about what will happen after this schedule is taken care of.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u40	Mr. President. I thank the senator for his speech, and as he said, there is not much you can say in such a short time. We're happy to get a plan like this that is supposed to be a policy document, but I've only criticized that there's a lot of questions about policy. We're talking about the big frame here. There are an enormous number of unconcerned factors, and I'm concerned that the plow is being very bad because I think there's unrealistic plans in there, including on the payroll, and this is not expected to be what happens when it comes to decommissioning, etc. It's such large things that can certainly be difficult to predict, but I think that it is completely unrealistic, in view of the demands in society on pay, not to assume something beyond the minimum of what is stated here. I would've wanted the frame law, too. I feel uncomfortable talking about it in the fall, i.e. About the lawsuits, I think it would have been good. But I just wanted to ask. Senator, I've been asking about it earlier today, about the S-labelled drugs, because there's a group of paints that are at ease. A senator knows well. We've been keeping up, but despite that, expenses for this group of litigation have been increasing. Now a minister says we're getting a balance on it, but does the senator agree that there's a cumulative need to invest in new S-marked expensive drugs that we've had to push away from us because of circumstances? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u41	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the answer. I agree with what. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, it's obvious that, first of all, policy is missing, it's very vague in this piece of paper, and there's a lot of uncertainty issues and probably rights to say that there's an unrealistic basis for a number of teams. There is one more thing. It's expected to pay the correction so-called, but if you negotiate a removal plan and walk away from the searchers of the banks, what will be the tax on the camp, etc.? As it is, I agree with what. A senator would then need a system of financial laws for individual lawsuits, it would be nice to see the lawsuits, and to see where they were headed with the funds. I was about to mention it in my speech, e.g. A professional policy and education policy. Where do we want to go, who are we taking our people, and where do we want to put the emphasis on drinking together? One of the factors involved is health care. We have made an enormous promise - i.e. The new government has done so, and I have rejoiced and the opposition to the government that it should take first place. It's very hard to see it in this piece of paper. There is not yet much to be added to that seminary in the years ahead, but it is clear that people are just going to do what has come to pass. Hv. A senator names the S-labelled medicinal products, and it is true that this joint has increased continuously; there are always new and new requirements and expectations from both patients but also from pharmaceutical companies that we take new drugs faster. I can't say that there's no balance there yet. New drugs are constantly being introduced into the market, and they are more expensive, so - called biological drugs that pay enormously high expenses. Men have been kept gone by delaying the intake of new drugs, and it seems to me, by what I've seen, that there has not been very much added, so that there will be a growing pressure on taking new medicines. But it has to be on the brake in this, I'm not gonna hide it, because it's a case that would grow by 15% a year and it's not gonna work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u42	Mr. President. I agree with that, I think we all are, that somehow we have to reach the S-markway. But the question is exactly, as I may think it will shine a little through here, that in that matter as if other things were missing the reality connection inside it. I just wanted to establish the development because the senator mentioned that a recovery process is very slow compared to an existing income plan, 85.9 billion something like this every year, except 2017, where 20 billion rests, i.e. effect on the quick decline of the secure housing bar. At the same time, it refers to 5 billion on the foundation to pay for our pension bonds. I haven't figured out whether to borrow money from the Pension bonds or whether the rest of the money is going to be left to pay off the pension fund, the B House, I realize that we need to do it. But I don't think it's a good idea. On page 18. 24 is discussed, and I ask the senator if he agrees with me on this. Similarly, in this next year's programme, to 2019, 1% of the maintenance goal, and now we face strikes and big conditions that have struck both the Lands Hospital and the Hospital in Akureyri and elsewhere where we know that measures have been delayed and that the Landspians are already 3 billion over the schedule. It's one of the things I find completely unrealistic to continue such policies as this, even though it's only 1%. [[The president calls.]] These are the largest litigators, academics, and health issues. Don't the senator agree with me on this?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u43	V.E.G. President. In many places it is unclear whether it is realistic or optimistic. It's pretty obvious right there -- they kind of answer it themselves in this piece, that with the $5 billion payment into the pension debt, and that's where the B section is in particular. In other words, they put it well, saying: "I'll slow down because the funds run out. " Clearly, this is not enough. At the same time, we need to keep in mind that the Kingdom is fully responsible, and the question is, When will this be achieved? The most important requirement for this matter is that a contract between the state and the employee movement should be made to settle the long - term position between the general funds and the state's pension funds. But there's the accumulated commitments people have to make, and it's clear that there's nothing to deal with in this proposal, it's just a formal proposal. For example, when a man mentions 1% of the maintenance goal, it was once said that there should always be 1% maintenance goals, even if only to take and reassign money to new ones. But that would be if people had come to some agreement as to what would be the final number. Because of what? A senator mentioned both health and education, so I have now said that it is in many respects normal to approach health issues by examining the expenses based on land production. We will go from carrying 9.5-639.7% of land production to 8.9% or around 9%. It takes tens of billions to go to what used to be, and there's none of it here. Same with education. At the same time as men cut 203/425% into education, it is as if the Ministry of Education expects that this number can be managed by reducing students to the final exam for three years and taking on pay increases, not adding a cent. This is not going to work out, it's going to be unrealistic in the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u44	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with what's been said, and it's important that we make a financial plan, and it's a good thing that it's done. Its objective must be to paint a realistic picture of what should come in the years to come, for otherwise our time is not very well spent on this work. I have to say, I don't think this document gives us anything in particular a realistic picture of what should come. This is because there are some factors that the government groups do not even agree on. I'd like to mention that the extent of the government's mismanagement is fine in this case. For example, if you compare this national financial programme with a meeting of the Agency then I don't understand what it is for the people, why we spend our time going through this document when it's absolutely crystal clear, it's on the page. 22 and in other locations, the national budget assumes that the State's sale accounts for 30% shares in the Lands Bank between 2015 and 2016. At a convention of the Fundament Party, it was clear that the people did not want to see any sale at the Lands Bank there. It has also been shown in the case of individual senators, and I speak up, for example. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigllionsson, chairman of the Parliament's Economic and Business Committee for the Agency, has made a great deal of opposition. If we have a government budget that is based on, among other things, the factors that I am very doubting can be realized while this government is sitting because of the conflict of people's affairs, I ask myself, " Why do people put it in the first place? ' Why don't they take it back and win it and give a clear picture of what should be done in the years ahead instead of making such an offer? Do people really think that it can happen that 30% of the National Bank is going to be sold, or a fraction of it, this year? Is that what they really think? No, it's not gonna happen. There are these things in other places that I don't understand why men say so. There's nothing wrong with that, there's no surrender if you take the plan again and correct it to give a real picture of what should come, not of the wishes of the individual. It must show a real picture of what the government will do. A respectable president. There are other things that the government has to do with and will mention the demolition of the Bank County. We're going to discuss the matter afterwards, as well as selling property items in the banks on the program and the highest. The secretary of finance will speak later at this meeting. As I've mentioned, I can't see that the government groups agree on these matters, so I wonder why we're here and why we're discussing it when we can use time in other matters that really matter, especially in the environment we're here today, where everything is on the job market. We could be giving from the council a realistic message on the subject of what should be presented and putting forth issues that could interfere with the debate. These matters don't. We last heard today how uncooperative men are, e.g. on big issues, such as insurance and other things that have become absolutely clear that the government will not do anything to eliminate. Why am I talking about this? Because it is of utmost importance that we send a clear message in all our work at the General Assembly. I want us to make more use of our time, and I don't think our time is well spent if we're discussing a case that's hard to see can actually give the image we should give. This is significant because there is now an enormous struggle in the labour market. BHM is on strike, the protocol is due on Thursday if not agreed, VR, Reykjavík's Business Association and the National Association were breaking up earlier today, as well as the Flea Alliance, and this adds to an additional 56 thousand people who are going to strike in the next month if nothing changes and humans do not get together. That's the serious situation that exists, and it's the environment in which we are now, so it's important that we send out a clear message. But instead, we are discussing such issues as a national financial programme, where there is nothing to send such a message, that's not being done, and now I'm going to mention a few things, but to press a further insecurity about certain matters, and it raises more questions than answers about where a person is heading. I'll mention, for example, the merit of an extra tax system. This is what we will discuss, and it says that it should simplify in the years ahead and that it should be made more powerful. It says, by permission of the President: The evaluation of the value of the tax system will also be continued with the objective of moving the system into simpler and more modern values and strengthening it as a income source. We heard what it was. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson's reaction to this question is clear that his mind is moving toward a simple system by decreasing the paces and we all know what that means. The increase in food tax before Christmas was just the beginning. You will continue to increase the food tax. What message is being sent out to those who are struggling for a better life, and rightly, to people who have too little income and are getting too little of a share in the community cake and far too little of a share in it? It's a big social cake. We're fine, but we don't split the cake fair between those who live here. This is what the work market is all about now. These are basic questions that people demand to answer, and they are answered: In the name of the simplified, taxation is to be increased to those who spend the largest proportion of their income on necessities. That's the answer to the government. It's the answers people get from this council arrangement. There are other factors that make you think, and they do not necessarily answer your questions. This, for example, is the budget and budget increase. Inflation is expected to occur at approximately 2.5 to2.7% during the planned period. This makes you wonder why the total increase between 2016 and 2017 is not going to reach that. This must indicate that there is an expected cutback at that time, as well as a considerable amount of money. I don't think it's possible to propose a conquistador proposal that makes such a decision different from telling us how to do it. We've seen, and in many ways we're getting along here, how the government sets priorities. She feels that it is normal, as indicated by the Parliament's arrangement, to reduce taxes in a way that frees her from income to 10.7 billion, by not extending the resource tax and by allowing her energy tax to run its course to the end of 2016. There's 2.2 billion there. There are little mention of the resource costs and the fishing fees where people also gave up income, etc. At the same time, a large group of people in society will call for their terms to be improved to improve the quality of their lives. The U.S. government responds to a government budget indicating that taxes will be raised on the lowest earner through an increase in worth tax and that they will be cut down in 2016-2017.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u45	Mr. President. I just wanted to come back here and make up the subject of a few topics that I did not enter in my first talk. That may be the first of these criteria, and I think we all agree that we want to lower the rate of Kingdom growth. We made it very effective when we discussed the government's debt that we considered them to be more valuable, including money. in the subsidies of the interest fund, which is discussed in this financial program. I don't think it must be a responsible attitude on the part of the government when it appears here that the interest cost in this country is about twice as high as the average of the European Union, 11% versus 5.6%, on average in 2013 and then it was 6.7% in Greece, with far less value than many other countries. In view of this, it is extremely unusual for the government to take advantage of the funds it felt would have for its subsidies. There's a lot of factors in this proposal that are unclear in terms of the establishment of state funds, including In fact, the fact is that much of the apartment loans and a great deal of it are the main sources of debt paid by the government. I think there's something that needs to be discussed very much. This will discuss the economic prospects of the state funds and the income of the state's budget as a proportion of GDP will decrease somewhat over the years to come and two things will occur. Large irregular joints will be drawn together, followed by changes in the tax system. This is a reduction of temporary taxes and the government's action to reduce the tax burden of homes and businesses. It says that contrary to this decrease in taxes, the positive interaction between the economic wind and the changes in the tax system will become a favorable source of revenue at the end of the period. Of course, we have criticized the very, the left green and the rest of the government, the manner in which we still need the various income taxes. As I've been doing in public today, our National Hospital is very, very bad, we're cutting down in education, etc. We have not come to the point where we really have the opportunity to give up the money that the government runs here and is truly happy about it. At the same time, there is $3 billion available. A limp at the Land Hospital and predictable that it will be very difficult ahead in view of what has happened. So the vision here is not what I would like to see. It is one thing to want to lower debt, but another is the methodology we want to use. This is not the scene of key economic growth, i.e. The equation, by suggesting that tax levels become just one on income tax and a merit tax tax. It is a check for unevenness, even more inequated than when it is already being formed. And it's not enough when the secretary of finance says that we've become too equal here, it's at the expense of the lesser ones, and that's clearly the policy here, so the benefits to the least have been paid, such as social security, are to rise by 1% above inflation in 2016-52019. We left greens, we can't afford the inequities that surface in this piece of paper and that's why we want to talk about it very much.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u46	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's excellent speech helped to shed light on some of the weaknesses of this bill. I agree with her that it is truly necessary to discuss the bill in detail. But I think it's very good to have a plan like this come up. This is in harmony with a convention arrangement adopted in 2011, and one of the previous governments prepared to do so. In fact, she also presented special reports with her budgeting project that, in fact, the present government actually broke in the last two years, so it is very positive that this is shown. Maybe it's the best thing about this, except that this is a good tool to plan for the future, that it shows up pretty well and clearly what course it is at the highest. The current government will follow. Then it turns out, except for the various weaknesses we've been tore here today, that there's no room for a new land hospital in these governments' programs. Second, it is assumed that there are 1.6% of gross domestic product that is being produced in the infrastructure of society, including transport. What does that mean? This means that there is no table for the work being done until it is completed. Of course, it is part of weakness. Of course, everyone knows that there will be an attack in a land hospital, and there will be an attack on increased transport, for example. And it's a w-w. The senator does not agree with me that when this is taken, as well as the uncertainty that we see about the delinquency of the currency stand, the picketing debates, and also the sale of shares at the Bank, which are opposed to the second board of directors - does it not in fact mean that the support under this program is extremely open before it is approved?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u47	Mr. President. Yes, I certainly do agree with that. A senator came in here. I agree that it's a good thing for me to see that this council arrangement was made. But what says in the Senate, I understand it--and now I'm going to get to read here: The minister who handles the government's budget shall submit to the General Assembly, no later than April 1, every year, a proposal for the resolution of the main distribution of budgets for the next budget year (correspond), as well as a report on changes in the state's revenues. The proposal should follow a budget for the next three years. The proposal should be referred to the budget after the previous discussion. I consider frames to be about lawsuits. That's why I've said that I just think it's half a pad. I would have wanted the frame so I could start talking about it here, i.e. how this took place in the Ministry. Then they get to work here this summer, and then we'll take a full discussion next fall. I feel like we're about to land in the same place next fall by taking an enormous amount of time in the budget, instead of making plans for such a frame. I agree with that, and I've talked about it, and I'm very worried about the uncertainty issues here, and these are very weak foundations. I think this piece of paper will be completely tolerated. I don't think there's a stone standing on a rock here because there's no design. The oceans aren't implemented, what happens when it's released. The winners are completely unrealistic, we know that. No new projects in transport, transport plans have not been established, they are not expected. It's really unnatural and whatever about Land Hospital, just like we've been inside before. That's why I don't think this is the policy document that the government boasts of putting forward.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u48	Mr. President. I agree with what happened. One senator said, here she described a process that she would have liked to be followed in this matter. If followed, the pressure would be considered to be better than it is now, but there is also another benefit in going that way. He is that the council is given greater authority, and that is important. It may be said that such a program, which suggests that four - year - old funding, along with each year's budget, are the strongest control tools that can be found to influence the course of society. We have agreed that as I have heard of, most members of Congress, behind the collapse of the bank, more power should be given to the council. I have felt that it has done well in various ways. For example, I'd like to point out that this is a special committee, a board of administration and monitoring, which is starting to make a difference, and all of this is important. I am still thinking that it is positive that the government has taken the step of developing such a plan. It may be said that falling is a factor as soon as I agree with it. A senator of the fact that this piece will definitely be tolerated, and not just because of the pressure from the government stand, because I'm going to see what's going to happen. The members of the board agree with much that they can find. But anyway, this is the first step, so I'm prepared to take this out of some tolerance at the highest level. Government, it's setting a new way for such a case. It does not change that it is our responsibility, especially in the government position, to point out weaknesses because they can be learned. And because we are in the midst of a fight, which is falling on with ever - increasing weight every day, how is the rush? A senator that works on government officials when a government that has just made great agreements with doctors and teachers draws up a document like this, assuming that other government employees receive 2% of cost raise?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u49	Mr. President. I'm pretty sure that those who are waiting for a deal with the state, whether it is BHM or staff or who are in strike operations or on the way to such measures - of course, it's completely unrealistic and unafraid to want to invite people with more than 200 thousand a month, with the lowest taxation, 2.5 or 3% increase in pay. I think we all agree on that, and that's why I have criticized this with the foundation here. I don't agree that everything has been successful. I believe we have succeeded, of course, in the former government, but here I feel that, on a later scale, the present government is taking over. I feel that the execution of one bill after another is taking over. That is why I would have liked to see much more available here, such as with this box as the official financial bill for bringing us here, and this may be a clue to that thought. But it's so hard to say that this is a policy if we don't see what sort of problems we plan to contribute to. We see certain policy here, we clearly see tax policy, and I think we agree that it doesn't take care of us, but the big picture is the group. How to take 1% of education cuts, where they're going to take it for health care, etc.? Where to Come Down? In view of the circumstances, where do those who make this building feel that way? That's what doesn't come out on the bill anywhere. Whether it's the Bank or the Board of Staff or any other, ministers here are increasingly taking over from the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u50	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Hv. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson crossed the uncertainty show, and I'd like to continue with that case because there are large uncertainty factors in the budget. Top of the list on page 24. 24 is spoken of as a collective agreement, and if it doesn't work, it can affect the inflation, the gang of the crown, the interest level, the competitive position of the sector, the business balance, etc., so it's a great warning against the collective agreements. On the other hand, if I recall correctly, it is not said of execution except on the top page. 5 that discuss dress code. Then again we are saying: Let us be careful not to do collective agreements that could threaten stability because of the problems we face when we do not have time to deal with it. Then it's this big case. The prime minister has said that if he is a part of or a step in decommissioning, he will put on a stable tax, with hundreds of billions of them coming into the state's budget. True, it is. Economic and economic ministers say that delinquency is complex and complex and that the stable tax does not exist for income, but is to promote stability, but in any case: Isn't it strange that in the four - year budget program, a senator does not take into account the consequences and benefits to the government?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u51	A respectable president. Yes, I agree. On page 18. 10 is a slight coverage of the release of seagulls, which is basically a little blah blah, that's kind of the way it is. It is referred to as being that we do not return to financial problems, risk factors are deportation, addition of emissions from treaties due to contract contract agreements on foreign currency commitments, and the problem with emissions is that funds may be turned out from the economy, etc. In fact, it is nothing more than what we may talk about or something, what happens, how people visualize it, that is not a set of motion pictures. I can understand how difficult it can be to make that statement. But at the end of this section 2,2.1 "Of the release of the seagulls," says, by permission of the President: The results of the preparation of emissions are clearly identified in the twice a year's report to the secretary's report, now the last of March 18, 2015. We've talked about a considerable amount of emissions and information flows between here and what it's been done - or not taken care of, and in view of the fact that we know that this is going to happen and fall by emissions, it's very strange how easily we get here. And I say, and I've already said that, of course, it's very special not to assume any higher pay schedules. It may be that people who are now in a desperate struggle to uproot this so that if people are going to ask for more than what is suggested, which is, of course, the absolute minimum, they will all go to hell and even have it. impact on emissions implementation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u52	Mr. President. Hv. Today's debate is as important as the weekend's program is, and it's very important to talk about policy and to know the key issues in the terms of the term, as well as to see what it is that the government groups agree to do. We were now caught up in discussing the budget bill that was set aside by the Agency's forward press conference. Thus, you did not know exactly how to take the bill because it clearly did not have a unity and realized that it would be made big changes. In this course, there is already a disagreement between the government parties, and perhaps the largest case there is a 30% sale in the Lands Bank. Hv. A senator serving on a financial committee is working on a public financial bill. It expects a government conference to be discussed and agreed to at the council and then discussed each year. But I'd like to ask why. A senator how she envisions that the Kingdom plan will be different from the one we are considering here. There's been some debate that it's not accurate enough, that policy doesn't get enough space, that doesn't have a framework for each department, etc. How can you tell? A senator envisions changes that follow the laws on public financial matters?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u53	A respectable president. Maybe it's part of what I said before to put in a plan like this that my plan knows we're inside the Ministry, i.e. That we can take classes for and discuss the exchange, how money is divided to each Ministry. We're discussing a bill on government finance, and I'm only concerned that we will lose a bit of control over the executive if it becomes reality as it seems today, though I believe that we are trying to do it as well as possible, and of course we won't both be able to do it, I know it now. But if that's true, I would like to have all the committees of the council get their case on the subject. A senator is asking. The General Board of Education and Education would receive the section of the bill that was involved in education and universalities, the welfare committee would be assigned to the welfare sector, etc., so we would have a professional discussion on the litigations. That's what we heard about in Sweden, from the budget board, that's how it's done, how it's done, how it's done, how it's done, how it's done, and more discipline prevails. I think that would make all members of the Parliament aware of what is really in their area that they are to care for in that year's committee work. This is probably also more effective by members of Congress because it may be primarily with the staff who participate in that discussion and usually not a lot of people in the hall, so I think it would increase people's awareness of the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u54	Mr. President. We'll talk about a national budget for 2016's 202019. Right away. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson spoke of the support that may be under this government budget, as he put it, came to my mind a battle song that will be sung throughout May 1st, on the day of labor: Go, suffering men in a thousand lands. Here we find a solid foundation away from us, and we break into a just society, to build a just society. That's how I think and probably many people, and they don't necessarily see this righteous society appearing in this financial program, unfortunately. I agree with what has happened to many whales. The speakers before me that it is good to plan ahead for the total budget and then drop every year's budget into that frame. But as this frame looks, it seems to me that there is a narrow cut-off for many projects and plans that have existed on the structure of our community following the financial collapse that we are gradually working on. I'm happy that in the council arrangement, our economy began to be replaced in 2010 and that the total financial balance of the State was reached in 2013. It is a joy, and we need to protect the goods of the Kingdom treasure, for that is how we defend the building of the welfare of the society we want to see. Happily, there are many signs that the nation's economy is improving as a result of powerful economics, such as seaways, tourism, the technical sector, the software sector, and many other factors. Then I find myself concerned about the small ratio or increase in social infrastructure. I find it a big concern to be talking about reducing the amount of time you spend together and moving to a private drink in the years to come. It may not be unusual for the right government to take that course, but it is contrary to our will that we want to be settled in the land and fight for the righteous divider of our nation. It also shows that investment policy should be 1.2% of GDP. There is far from a sufficient proportion to maintain the need for the structure of the infrastructure community, whether you take an example from the road system, of transport within the country, or of the accumulated need for maintenance in various institutions that are relevant to the welfare system, health and education system. We can list all those factors. In many places, people have had to dry up, not invest long, and cutbacks and recesses because of the harsh economic collapses that occurred. We don't see that anything is being dealt specifically with in those categories. We only try to keep a lamp and a little down, and I am really worried about what that will mean. There have been a number of events, such as the construction of a new land hospital, what is expected of them. It also looks at how we are going to live in the next few years with a nursing home, which is certainly needed, as well as to the great load that rests on a wealth of government money on the deposit of workers in the state's pensions. All of this requires that this be assumed in the currently installed frame. I am also deeply concerned about the pay cases because the government expects a salary to be paid to public employees under this framework that there will be only a 2% increase in money. I don't think it's expected at all, but that's all that's expected. So much attention came to that word at the top. Secretary of finance, which appeared during the dawns, may have gone too far to settle the terms of the country. I think there's a lot of people that's gonna cry out at the top. Secretary of finance should be taken into account. For more information, please contact the local Kingdom Hall of Jehovah's Witnesses or write to the publishers of this magazine. 10 engraved on the work market, says by permission of the president: ▪ At the 2013 end of collective agreements and the early 2014 season, the labour market partners and the government met to promote steady prices and increase prices with modest pay raises. The conclusion was that there was a short period of about 2.8% successful remuneration. The agreements proved to be the key to the stability achieved in 2014 and 5.3% of salary growth, but the cost of earnings has not increased as much over the years. A word of the highest order. There's quite a conflict between financial minister and what's going on here. Thus, it states that the pay in general markets has increased only 2.8% during the last bargain, the result of good results, and the stability, which is now the highest. Ministers on the possibility of over-improvement. I think it's a disgrace to the highest degree. Secretary of finance allows him to speak down to the people who need to live at 214 levels. K. a month's bridge, and then a lot of pay-related expenses will be reduced. I don't think there's much understanding of that request that there's a cumulative need, both in the public sector and in the general labour market, for improving the terms. The government can't afford to look past it and throw such a bomb into the difficult conditions in a workforce, which is certainly at hand.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u55	Mr. President. I was so happy that I managed to raise up an old battle memory at the moment. A senator here with my favorite lines of international singing of officers. Of course, at some point we should agree on singing it from this platform, especially during this silly debate. Hv. A senator made the subject that I had considered what I thought was a great support in the program that we are discussing here. Yet, I had not completely finished my list of them. I'll tell you what. For example, on page 30, a member of the body is assigned to visit a congregation meeting. 19 The report contains a table showing the expected state funds to the year 2019, i.e. recovery from the previous year, and it is a little interesting to read from that table. In fact, the conclusion is that there is an extremely slow recovery that might, in effect, be called quiet. It shows that between the current year and 2016, the improvement is 0.0% on the primary balance of state funds as a proportion of GDP. Of course, between 2016 and 2017, it is up to 1%, but it works all the way back the following year because it returns to 0.7% again during the last year by 0.1%. In other words, the equation is virtually unchanged over the entire period, and it is not getting better. For this reason, it may be appropriate to recall that when we were here in the government, there were three leaps during that terms of years. This is an example of weakness, and I would like to ask the wiles of a fighter who was here with lines from an international song once before: How does she feel about what the government shows on the cards there, which is in fact against public employees, which is, in fact, only 2% increase in buying power rates at the same time that have been made large agreements with both doctors and teachers?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u56	Mr. President. This is not good news for employees in the country. It has to say, as it is, that the government does not have much understanding of the need to improve the level of pay paid people, and then I'm talking about the section of pay paid people that has been left behind. I often feel at the top of the discussion. Secretary of finance and others trying to compete with the employees in the general labour market who may have to live at the expense of a budget of 200 to250 yous. K. per month, which, of course, is too small, and those in the public sector, e.g. those who are in BHM, who are now in a strike - and who may be experiencing a long study of more than 300 of you. K. per month. It's as if these classes are being joined together and let them work at always being in eternal comparison, they must never come together, then all is impossible, as I felt was in the highest degree. Secretary of finance that if pay had not increased so much in the general labour market, then there might be classes within the BHM. I am deeply concerned that the equation is really unchanged and is concerned about this slow recovery and even quietness. Of course, that is because the state has given up a lot of money, up to 30 billion. There's something to say in the entire context and how slow recovery is really going, when we should be going up on the blues.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u57	Mr. President. You're absolutely right. A senator says that the state has renounced enormous incomes and can find a good summary of this on page. Thirty-two in the report. It presents conversations if you put everything together that is 27.6 billion, if I remember correctly. That's an annual deed. [[Annual deed.]] But I notice. However, the senator's lack of regard for the reduction in hunting costs is not taken into account, not taking into account the 5 billion decrease in income tax that was the first activity of the government, to make it clear. Hv. A senator said that this plan is not good news for those who are now in a fight. Lord faithful, she pronounces the concierge of the concierge. Also, there is no good news for us based on our social equations to see that, when we are making progress in relatively good years, our consumption is increasing by 1.6% between the years according to this schedule. Before the crash, about 4% a year. Then we'll see where it's headed. [[The president calls.]] Taxation should reduce the proportion of GDP from 29.9% to 26.7%. Everything's headed for the same mess.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u58	Mr. President. Yes, there is a turning away from the course that was in the last terms of the country's terms. One of the things that were done well during the last term was to establish this step - change tax system, which proved to be very good for underpayers and middle earners. Now it seems to me that the government is looking at one tax step, which, of course, is very bad news about the equation between people on the income, different revenues. It's all a big worry. As we know, earnings have been suspended, and this is also roughed up in the collections of hunting fees. There's money taxes, energy taxes, and so on. So it's all going one way. I think we, who think we are as good as socialists, have to fight hard against the inequities presented here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u59	Mr. President. Thank you. A member of a fine talk, and she has made it a subject, now trying to inquire about it earlier today with a financial minister, and then she spoke about it in her speech, an amazing concern of the highest. Secretary of finance of growing equations in Iceland. We know that, me and him. A senator who was here during the last term with the responsibility for our shoulders, along with others in the company of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, or the supporters of the government, to extend a federal budget after a financial collapse. We took over the state funds at 217 billion angles and put it in the hands of the right government. Here's the national budget showing where we're going after that incredible success. I'm worried - or maybe I'll come into it in a second answer. I'm very into the tax system. I don't want to make unnecessary taxes. This must be done with efficiency, and we must not be overly weighed down, but we are entitled to taxes because with a well - earning system, it is the way to increase the balance in society. It also earns income for the combination, which means the health system, education, law enforcement, and the overall welfare system. But it is obvious that these systems, which undergone the collapse, are not to be paid proportionately back what they have proposed. I want to hear what the effect is. A senator believes that the co-practicing factor is equal. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u60	Mr. President. I think we, as equals men, may have been too shy to speak for fair taxes. Reasonable taxes mean, in effect, that people do not have to pay directly from their own resources the services they attend, whether they are in the health system, the educational system, or other social services. By keeping taxes reasonable according to their means and circumstances, the load is distributed. Of course, the right government has sold itself in elections to make it so much better by paying taxes. Sadly, many have bought these items and thought that it meant improvement, but so often, they have not found out for themselves what it really means when they have to attend health care and dental services, travel is poor, and no money is available to build up them. There is also cutting down in the educational system, as we look up today, in which many schools are being driven to the edge. That's all there is to it. Governments prefer to cut down on these lawsuits and to push community service into private services. We watch that there will be an increase of inequities in the land, and that is not a blessing, since there is no reconciliation in a society where inequities continue to increase.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u61	V.E.G. President. No, there's no peace in such a society. This is shown by the requirements of the workforce now, that is the requirement for social justice. People fear that they are heading back to the track with increasing inexorability, where the richest are griting to themselves, while medium - incomeers and low - incomeers are left with a very small share. I'm worried that about a quarter of the unemployed are college educated people. Money is not laid enough for innovation and research that has fallen to increase the wealth of society. Instead, traditional jobs are focused on and are not actually using the resources, e.g. The fish as well as the tourists who come here to enjoy Icelandic nature. [[The president calls.]] What does it say? A member of the government policy?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u62	Mr. President. We are well aware that the government's policy in business is primarily a major policy. It's not particularly welcome, since people who have gone to college and educated themselves in various fields, including social science fields, are not just in engineering and what is causing it. There is nothing for the human resources that society has actually supported by university education, with community support, to use the vast human resources available in the country. Sad to say, the unemployment of academics is growing so much and thinking about the government. Where is her focus on business? I don't think they have a future, and I don't have a demand for young people according to the work structure being carried out here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u63	V.E.G. President. I listened here to a talk. paritaprevir The Lilja Rafney Islands Magnúsdóttir, a fine talk, and she came from many places. We are truly positive in this discussion that we are discussing the main lines, the main sizes, the overall picture, and as in conventional policy measures, we are coming to know where we want to go and that is how the discussion has been conducted. There's something positive about it. This is certainly shown in the discussions and in this program that we now address, the highest financial program. Secretary of the budget, there are uncertainty issues available. The major uncertainty factors are the emissions of capital stocks and labour market debates. It's just the nature of the matter that we discuss it here and the possibilities in it. There's been some results. There I will pause at one point in the speech of the dog. A senator who continues to ask a question. She quoted words on page 19. 10 discussing that the labour market and the government have agreed on a modest, moderate-managed agreement a year ago. The measured increase in power of money is 5.3%, based on information. I understood why. A senator was right that she had wanted to see more pay raise at the expense of money? There's no dispute about the 300 you're talking about. K. A minimum wage is something we all want to see. The question, though, is: Would she want to see more elevations, higher rates? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u64	Mr. President. Of course, everyone wants to keep his pay and money at hand. No one goes forward in his struggle for pay and asks for a higher salary. But I don't think it should only be on the shoulders of those with more than 200 of you. K. and maybe up to 350. K. in pay per month to maintain stability. For far too long, the people with the lowest salary in this society should be responsible for stability when others pay as we have seen many, many years in so many classes, where they can do so without asking Pétur or Páll, and they do not have to go to strike for their pay, with the necessary costs and all the things that are not jealous. The time has come for reconciliation to exist in the group of people who have worked in the dark between these low wages and who are content to raise them without the pay going to the top. I think maybe it's always the national cake that's not even divided. If we look at individual companies, if they were a normal split of wages, we wouldn't have to go on our side here. But when some are always able to raise themselves beyond parentheses, they are at the lowest rate paid to be responsible for their stability. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u65	V.E.G. President. What I'm pulling away from is what I'm talking about. The senator I thank is equal to an attractive goal. That is where we wholeheartedly agree. It is well that the annual contracts have yielded 5.3% greater purchases and can be commended for their agreements. Of course, when we discuss the equation, we must divide the cake equally. That means we have to raise the lowest wage. But what we're facing, if we're going to look at the stability back, is the question about how we're going to increase the equation, raise the lowest wage -- let's just stick to the 300 grand. How can you tell? A senator realizes that we will achieve that goal without any rise up the pay ladder and that we will take on greater financial gain?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-96.u66	Mr. President. Many are responsible when it comes to paying and choosing. There, the rulers of corporations and the State, and in various places, decisions are made for buying and choosing. I don't think there's always a need to talk about percentage increases, because it's going to get a lot better with low-payers to get a dollar raise. Of course, they are not large, what does it mean, e.g. The amount of money the Work Programme is talking about, 300 of you. K. In three years? It means that in three years, the hired man will have 228 you. K. Down payment, three years from now, that's like 300 yous. K. At a monthly buy, that's what it means. Does society go next to it? [[The president calls.]] I don't think so. You just have to swallow it, because it has to be leveled and taken away from the most of it and not cut down a wealth tax. [[The president calls.]]
