ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u1	A respectable president. Again, I don't even think that the suggestions we've put out here require more money than that, simply because they're a group of paints that have been down the road for some time and we need to make up. At least that's my personal position. Then there's the top one. For example, a government has gone to taxes that have reduced income, at least in its time. They could simply be canceled. That's one idea. There are many ways to increase the money you earn even if you have a problem. A senator feels that such suggestions are unrealistic. But from then on, I think it is very important that we protect our health and strengthen it as the preceding steps go. To say, I'm very happy, no matter what our differences are about numbers and subject points, that everyone here talks like they want to put the health system first. At least I think it's very positive.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u2	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this fine speech. Because it's only a minute, I'm gonna talk fast. Health issues. They have been first after a long period of starvation, but more is needed if enough. The point is: Remunerations are being ensured so as to limit avatar escape. There's a plan for three, four years' buy. They've put together a group to have a conversation about the really needs of money, so you can stop talking in the magazines at this time of the year. The health care unit has been improved to lift pressure from the emergency department. An additional reserve has been set to delete or work on the list. The question is, much less. A senator wants to do things somehow differently than what I've done here in a few words? Would he have other emphasis? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u3	A respectable president. I don't think I'd have any other emphasis, I'd just like to have more of this. I'd like to have more money on this. These are all good things. I'm especially happy for the 850 million who are suggested to work on the lists, very important. Again. I'm glad that the effort I hear here is that this system is in the first place. In my speech earlier, I brought up the subject to point out that this system needs first priority and needs funding, and I'm glad that the answers I get are not: No, the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, why. Senator, this should not be top priority. - No one's saying that. Everyone's saying it should be top priority. I'm glad you're here. So I can't object to the things that happened. A senator mentioned. I welcome all of them. But I would like to go further and suggest that we do it because we can, we're returning the baseless budget. There is room to do more. This, however, does not condemn what is being done.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u4	V.E.G. President. Two more things, huh? Senator. I understood why. A senator was right that he wanted the nation to become a financial aid by opening it, because financial contributions from the council are now being offered even more by a new legal bill on terms of government. A senator cheered, I don't quite understand. Another one, too. It's about the money raise of the state fund. I didn't quite understand it as what it was. A senator talked about the income tax. I'm not quite sure if Piratars are heading for a multi-stage income tax system or a flat income taxation system, how many steps, if the multi-stage income tax system is what the Pirantar wants. I would've liked to. A senator shed light on it and also on that occasion, if I did not misunderstand it much more, the nation would be in the law of the people. Where does it end? Is it about a tax rate? Is it true if all of the people of Akureyri are united that everything is most important is that the University of Akureyri receive significant funds? [[The president calls.]] What's that like? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u5	A respectable president. I thank you for the questions and wish I had more time to comment. With regard to the nation's access to the sheep. What I meant is not that the people begin to vote for such a budget. In all the contributions I know about national pay, for example, the initiatives of the nation are excluded. However, the development of budgets is very important that the nation has access to information, clear channels, which, in fact, might be clearer to my opinion if it is taken out of place in the form of the narrative process. But the better the nation can use such evidence to see new ideas or how to solve a problem, the better. The introduction would be mainly in the form of a much clearer and more beneficial discussion, following the use of data in a much more beneficial way. As for the income tax level, the Piranians do not have a policy in themselves like the pack. I have to say, I feel that the emphasis on the simple tax system is a little in the wrong place. I understand what men are thinking. I don't mind having three tax steps. I don't see anything wrong with that. I can't see how much more complicated it is than having two. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u6	A respectable president. I would like to take that part of a talk. A senator who paid off to the reform system or relief. Now, in a labour market, pay is determined by no other factors than work. Guðrún graffiti does not necessarily take pay based on her family size, how many children she has, or so on or on debt, pay is not taken into account as an example. Then there are hired men who are regularly in a fight. This shows that there is a difference in wages and benefits, and that is why reforms make legal changes once a year, unlike wages. [[The president calls.]] That's what I'm talking about. A senator disagrees with the arrangement in which compensation is determined once a year, in contrast with pay?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u7	A respectable president. No, I'm not against that arrangement. I'm having a bit of a hard time understanding the context I have to admit. I don't see why it matters whether we call this pay or compensation. It remains that people need these to live. It is not wise to use money in modern society, at least not if you intend to live in society itself. In addition, changes in wages are made annually, our salary changes about every year, as well as the practice of reevaluating pay every year and the like. I don't see in itself differences in terms of this, but, of course, the difference is that an invalid cannot negotiate with anyone, he can't stop being an invalid, he can't go to another company and be an invalid there. He is thus concerned that we make decisions more in terms of reasonableness than the simple market policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u8	A respectable president. I may not have been clear enough in my inquiry. The very fact is that they do not negotiate for their own benefit. That is why it is legal for reforms to make changes once a year by making donations, starting each year. For example, on January 1, when no employee received such an increase, a 3% - percent improvement was raised last January. That's what I'm trying to draw out. There's a law on improving, and that's why I wanted to ask. A senator would see whether he could agree with me that at least a small percentage of people would be involved when politicians say that reforms should rise all at once, because there is a direct legal issue when reforms are raised. Preliminaries can assume that benefits are revised once a year. No hired person can walk that way. [[The president calls.]] Many employees have had to wait much longer than a year for their remuneration.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u9	A respectable president. I don't trust myself to answer the question about the people's business. It's such an awful lot of viewpoint and interpretation, I'm sure many people think it's a people's jar. I suppose that's what it is. A senator feels that this is a demarcation. Now I am far from an expert on how this improved system works, and yet I have tried to understand part of it, which proved very difficult because it is very complex. I sometimes say, especially with the so - called correction of debt, that no group has experienced such a failure after failure and disability, and a pensioner. Nobody. No group in Iceland. At any rate, those with securable loans could read the contract and try to understand it, but when it was to be expected, they could not because of the collapse, because the law was simply changed. So they have remained for ever since. It is time for us to put forth the effort to fulfill their wishes. Whether this 3% increase is really a replacement, I need to take a closer look, I have to admit, to reach the final conclusion. [[The president calls.]] I'm sure I'd like to meet the demands of this group at least occasionally. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u10	V.E.G. President. We're talking about 2nd. bill to budget for 2016 First, I'd like to say that these are good and positive financial laws, not only because they reflect good status and positiveness in the absolute sense, where the rest of the government's budget is spent the third year in a row, but also because the emphasis of this government is being made on both the remuneration and the income side, as it is the highest policy of any government to do at any time. The wealth of the state is growing despite the emphasis on the reduction of taxes for greater tax reforms and betters, and the financial resources for individuals, the public, or the country's homes. This box provides a clear indication that there is a better level of employment and an improved quality at the same time as it is always possible to maintain a remuneration on the remuneration gate with clear priorities for basic services. Of course, the effect of collective contracts on the budget side may be marked. This has been true, as it were, in terms of improving the quality of basic services. Its priority is, of course, the remainder of importance, so that the State debt can be increased and the growth rate still too large and the building blocks. A respectable president. Returning a government budget with increasing growth rate in the third year will increase the scope for serious subsidies, while at the same time paying off the interest fee, which is still the third largest budget behind health and welfare contributions. In view of all of us, we should be able to agree that there will be a full limit to paying off debts on the coming losses, to reduce interest costs, and to become even more effective in improving basic services, the greatest needs for our welfare. I'm talking about older civilians and disability, but a lot has been discussed, the nature of the case. The last time we saw a legal hearing with an older citizen's partner and the desperate representatives. Then there is health, education, transportation, law enforcement, and the defined basic services that we would like to handle. This government has, no matter what anybody says, developed a clear policy and is well reflected in the budget, both on the income and charge gate. In the same context, the more part of the investment needs to accumulate in major infrastructures, such as transport incentives, and the future that we see in the development of changing ages and, rather, in the emphasis we see in the changes in the content. This will inevitably require increased expenses for future losses in this area. The future economic growth and the standard of living will undeniably be regarded as the importance of tourism and its structure, which sectores strongly rely on investments in infrastructure and transport. Education is an aspect that we must cherish and our contributions to education are always about the future standard, and we will always have to look to one another because the competition for tourists, the future labor force lies there. The initial estimates for management were 15.3 billion, but with modifications, which included changes. You can find in the Summit sheet of the greater part and with special meeting documents, it will contract over 1/3 due to a 4.6 billion increase in net expenditures. Money increases over 4,236 million. K. as a sign of a better time, but the cost of change increases by 8,803 billion. K. Thus, the remainder according to this, let the bill be followed by an existing change of 10.7 billion. It's still handsome leftovers, but certainly a lot less left over, worrying about the economic conditions we are living in today, the uplift we are in in the economy, and many people want us to mean that we are at the top of the high - ups and into goods. It must be viewed, however, by the circumstances from which we come. There, the basic services felt a great deal of continuous surgery for some time while we were working through and out of a recession, and the urgent need to work back once more. While some may feel that it is a little slow to do so, at the same time it is important to maintain a balanced view of the situation. The situation is reversed, I say, because as soon as we have to meet the budget requirements for economists where it is important to show them maintenance, most people want to see things happen more quickly, see things turn sharper, as we truly want to correct the terms of the employee and improve when it comes to a basic service, which is the way I came to a wide range of urgency and we feel it. This is the project, if I haven't made it clear enough, to the highest. Governments deal wisely with these matters, walk with wisdom and mildness toward economic management, stability, and buying power as soon as pay is corrected and added to basic services. A large part of the growth is due to the impact of collective agreements of about 5 billion, in turn weighing the changing prices in terms of a reduction of the gang and price benefits by 2.3 billion and the net effect, therefore, over 3 billion. Other changes may be said to follow the urgent financial support for projects that are inevitable, and it is good that the project is being carried out in a systematic way and that it is made directly available to them. I'm gonna stick to the opinion of more things and the projects that show up there during the changes and the health systems, the education, the welfare system, the housing system and the infrastructure. Also, there are other challenges to address, as well as refugees and hospices, national work projects and a number of health and welfare issues. As I said, it's done well in the members of the greater section, and it's made up for the changes it contains. I'm going to discuss the main changes, as they show up there. First, I'm going to count that 1 billion are going to assist with the security and refugees. I'd like to say the highest. The government has taken a handsome look at the problems faced, and it is not measured in financial or mass but, rather, in an effort to deal with them because of responsibility and challenges so that we can welcome people in handsome ways and help them to fit into our society and the society that accepts them in each case. That's an extra 531 million. K. to development and international relief work and development cooperation, of which 18 billion. K. to the United Nations and to the United Nations University 13 million. K. 500 million. K. In humanitarian cases and emergency assistance. There is also a contribution to international institutions and relief organizations that work with refugees abroad, the United Nations Refugee Organization for Refugees, the United Nations Food, the United Nations Refugee Organization for Refugees, and then 95 million. K. In addition to the Foreign Institute for Refugees to meet an increase in the number of requisitions and meet the criteria for speech speed, this further development will be 349 million for the National Institute of Iceland. K. next year. Fifty million. K. due to an increase in costs of 15. track No. 40/1991, about community service, and 375 million. K. We go to the emigrant council and receive refugees and relief work, so about 1 billion will go on a number of teams so that we can be professional and best able to receive and provide the best help for the funds we put on this project, which we are supposed to be united in doing the best we can. Secondly, 840 million is going. K. Based on the changes I am going over specifically to process a waiting list for the selected surgery. The list of waitings is huge, and it is assumed that a total of 4.963 operations will be performed over a period of three years, to witness to this list. It is an eyestone surgery, coronary artery catheters, and mechanical surgery on the knee and hip, which will be discussed on page 42 of the committee's article that I quote. To keep up with this campaign, which is so urgent, there are an estimate of 15 million. K., for the management of the project, for the management and implementation of the project so that the application will be fully carried out. It is expected that the wait will not be longer than three months since request is submitted. I'd like to mention this because I think it's a very good example of a contribution going on an immediate task based on analysis and assessment and cooperation with the respective healthcare providers. Third, I'd like to mention that some 490 million are proposed. K. ... inthefinishmentof tourist positions. This is a basis for infrastructure in tourist areas but is also 65 billion. K. to travel bases and 150 million. K. for travel research. I think it is very sensible in view of the high growth in the industry, but more specifically, since the industry is special in that it runs across a number of other sectores and stretches through many of its sectors and is interwoven with many in our society, I am writing a structure of structures that we use every day and build up other activities, as well as being able to have a major impact on how human development and more is developed in our daily lives and in our community. Thus, travel is a complex way of life that calls for another service directed toward the tourist, which calls for investments and is called an external type. Many investments, such as hotel investments and investments, have a sense of being often at high cost. At that time, the industry tends to fluctuate and fluctuate after seasons. Here we are looking forward to over a few months and the summer season, which has called for a permanent task, such as it is often called, extending the tourist period to both ends or what we can call extending the tourist season. Certainly we have been successful in this late stage, as the statistics for the arrival of tourists can be determined. There, the northern lights, winter offers, and flying supply have had to say. Thus, we must welcome the forward view and policy of tourism. Such policies need to be based on data and analysis, and the sector needs to build on such data and decisions that depend on the sector in building up, so that we can wisely direct how we use nature and infrastructure and invest wisely so that we can continue to build up these very growing sectors in the most profitable way. When it comes to recreation in travel services, I'm going to remind you of a bill I've given in three places, but I'm not allowed to measure for a more distinguished president, so far. It is a warrant for the highest power. The local minister of allowing gambling halls, which are the popular entertainment of foreign tourists in most parts of the world, mainly well - paying delegates, and is able to cooperate with the aims of equalizing the travel period, using a second investment directed to the basic services of tourists, conferences, flights, and lodging. A negative view of such entertainment is that I know of misunderstandings based on the problem of gambling that we have, of course, an understanding that we need to work on, but I believe we're wrong when it comes to them because there's more gambling on the Internet. We also need to deal with them. Here, too, is going on illegal black jobs, as a recent judgment shows that such illegal activities under penal law were being carried out and that individuals were indeed playing, but the right protection was no, and I could count that, of course, there was no money in the state's budget. It would be a great improvement and a good deal of harmony with the objective and policy of tourism to allow such a business. It is not only the annual fluctuations that identify the tourism services and the number of investments in certain areas that follow high levels of fixed costs, the characteristics of the industry also involve tourism in a number of ways that are dependent on one another if there are results in the marketing and management of the workers, services and management needs, both in the presence of the internal and external transport services. Thus, most of all policy measures must be aimed at achieving cooperation and cooperation in this area so that the forces of individual partners and funds will be shared, in which Iceland, where its destination is focused, and how investments are most efficient and effective. In addition, more and more clear policy should be drawn up as to what might be involved in the infrastructure, which may be useful to our uses as well as to our citizens as well as to tourists. Public transportation can be mentioned in this regard, as well as in transport systems, outdoor areas, and other forms of recreation. So we can work progressively to have a positive influence on the structure of our community in various areas, and then I refer to the theoretical exchange I mentioned, internal and external. Of course, we look to the sector and its economic impact in contribution to national production, employment development, currency support, and prosperity. But we're supposed to look at other factors, and that's why I'm glad we're putting money here for policy development, research and development. There are important factors and efforts in these budgets and emphasis on this aspect for the future tourism development. Fourth, I'm going to step back to the change in the more part where 400 million are being put. K. A little extra to promote public law enforcement. There was no particular discussion long ago on the issues of the police, and in the discussion of the budget, it's come up in a few debates. Senators. There is nothing more to this discussion than to agree on this contribution and understanding of the vital role the police play in ensuring the safety of the city and the added pressures of increasing number of tourists. A recent report by the U.S. Marshal has made clear in both the report and the discussion of how urgent this is to react to the trend. The police need to increase their resources, and they need more money to strengthen the general law enforcement departments and, so important, to maintain acceptable initiative law and strengthen police specialized departments in every area. On page 30 of the Commission's list of pages 30, the Court's comments on this donation, with the permission of the president, are quoted as follows: 400 million is low. K. ... to back up the local police. In 2014, a positive step was taken in making a decision at the World Congress of some 500 million. K. ... aapplication. An analysis of the country's police services has shown weaknesses in the work that are urgent. One of them is the important role the police play in ensuring the safety of the growing number of tourists throughout the country. Another factor turns on increased transparency in the police activities and aims to ensure an adequate service and security level. It is suggested that the division of the budget between the police services will be conditioned so that the distribution will be based on the review of the service and safety level in the relevant police situation. The key elements on which the police Ministry is based are calling services, crime control and investigation. The key elements established by the security phase for the safety that the general public can expect to enjoy as well as the security that the police can place on the implementation of hazardous law enforcement projects. These factors are being handled, and they are good. It's cool that it will be done, and, of course, it's a positive thing that negotiations were achieved for police officers, who, like many other groups, had been left behind and subsided in terms. Let me give you an interesting amount of transport contributions of 235 million. K. to connect the country. It's going to be a lot better for me to weigh, but I'm just a little bit less than that. We all know how urgent and urgent it is to build up and provide transportation, not just for the building up of tourism, as I went across the country, but to contribute to human and freight transport. It is also urgent to deal with increased traffic and transport improvements in major traffic events. It is not only in the country but also in the capital area, and I want to include in my district, the Southwestern district, the Eaglenes Way in Kópavogi, which has finally been started, the Kaksanski Way that finally received some improvements after a long stretch of wear and is recommended to continue with them as planned. Then I'd like to mention the 2018 Sveinjanes Way south of Hafnarfjörður, which is planned for the first phase to make a road meet with the Krísvívíkway. Its traffic is simply dangerous during the main traffic season and from the safety point of view must be carried out, and sooner so. Passages are about much more than just roads, and I'm especially glad that there's additional donations in the change of the share to ports and backwaters. 400 million is suggested. K. will go to these projects for renewal on docks and for depth in landing teams. On page 35 of the Summit's committee program of the greater part, more is explained by a contribution to the rejection, which, according to the Vega assessment, means that docks are in full use that have become dangerous and can be used at seams such as earthquakes. An example of this is the dissipation of the estate by harbors. I want to be happy that this is being treated, as this is part of our transport and support of commercial and marine resources. Finally, I intend to discuss priorities and tax policy at the highest level. Governments. In this regard, there has been some talk about in the discussion room for tax doctors, and the insurance fee is used to form. The pressure to the lower must be determined by the priorities displayed at the tax policy level and by any means, from the position that is upstairs, from where we're coming from, and where we're going. It is a theoretical definition of where we are in an economic rhythm, and it may, in the definition, be different. But we have indeed been on the right swing, coming from a deep crisis where maintenance and cutting were needed, more than saying that it would have been necessary and inevitable. It formed an agreement for such measures, but through its sacrifices in basic services, infrastructure, and investments. We are likely to be at the top of a swing into the goods, which would be defined as a better one, which can last if the right thing is being done, a better place where we can hopefully, as I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, go on increasing weight in paying off debts and reach down interest charges, where both of us can be improved to most people, and continue on this journey, supporting our job life with increased investments and building basic services. It's supposed to be slow, and it's not least for the policies this government has chosen and in this respect, I think it's the highest. The government's on its way. It's true that there's no room to do everything at once, and I can name the road system. I think that most people who have taken up the discussion agree that despite the large budget spent each year, they must set priorities and look to the units that make up the economy, the job life, and the home, which are the basic units that make up the economy. The decline in insurance costs has hardly begun, and many wanted to see it happen in much larger steps and in terms of less unemployment. It has been announced that it will not happen faster, and not more quickly, the next year, when it was decided to meet the workplace and the companies in difficult contracts. I'm gonna head for the fishing road. However, I discussed travel services, but these two employment sectors along with aluminium production are our main currency-making articles and share in using our natural resources. It is in itself an exhilarating experience to see that more and more use is becoming with the growth of tourism. It's heading for the highest. Governments building up from intelligent management and tax environment which allows these sectors to grow and thrive and to produce resources and to create employment. Regarding what the fishing road has provided, the tax trajectory is determined by the head of the marine road authorities at about 25 billion. Many would like to mean that the fishing route can pay higher resource costs. To show reasonableness in this situation, and if you look at some of the top ten largest fishing companies, there could be little room for some sort of pressure to go up higher and more fishing costs from those most narrowed, with the biggest quatane and the companies. But we need to keep in mind the future. We've got to create stability, we've got to create a bit of time for the industry to invest. The fact is that the industry has already considered profits, interest rates, structure, and productions that are widely lacking in the commercial world to be successful in recent years. Happily, a large debt that rested on the industry has been paid off. At the same time, we must look at hundreds of other companies around the country in an equal and moderate way. No doubt you can smooth and squeeze something more than it is not default. On the other hand, we are to try to find a place to settle this fundamental way in which our people work, a basic export road, along with tourism and aluminium production. I'm going to step aside to the health issues, but they've naturally been quite a part of the discussion. It is stated in the panorama of the greater part that the development of budget development in this government's history is one way, it has greatly increased in the time of the present government. It is presented in a panel of committees, in an excellent committee mask of the greater part, as it also shows that the increase is much higher than in any other group of cases; for the restoration of the health system is a clear priority, although I mean, when we speak about the health system and where it is static. We have excellent people who have worked under extreme pressure and, according to most figures presented during the discussion, the National Hospital has done a great job, and the health system is all in difficult circumstances over the past few years. The changes I'm going over are still being added, that's 840 million. K. to work down a waiting list. 280 million. K. a donation to the cost of testing for hepatitis C is provided on page 43. Of course, it is also financed by financial contributions from other sources, and so there are 50 million. K. Extra needs to run hospitals. A respectable president. There's only a matter of time, and there's a lot of things in the modification proposals for the 2nd bill. which is worth examining. I have not specifically considered the affairs of older citizens and disability, but I also don't intend to stand here and claim that the pay of these groups is not to be, or should not be, higher. We are not talking about big trials, and it is understandable that the groups are fighting for improved terms. We have, so I tell you honestly, to work on it, and that's an understanding of it by the highest level. Governments and the rest. I know we directors have been talking and putting up numbers and percentages and measures since the summer of 2013. It's hard to compare percentages with ratings, there'll always be bad comparisons. However, it has to be respected by efforts to review what has been done since the summer of 2013, such as increasing the levels of leisure and lowering the decline, as well as paying no particular credit because it's legal, and it's actually a very good stage at the time, 2011 I think that it has been passed into law, where average gains or prices, the higher, will come here every year. However, it is essential for the situation today and for the clear requirements that were presented, among other things, at a meeting with difficulty. The budget today, on the one hand, is that if paid at least the minimum wage will be 300 you. K. 2018/209, as shown in the retrospective meeting. But this needs to be discussed in the discussion, and we need to talk about it as well as to draw out all the information so that we can discern where we are in the effort to improve the benefits, what has been done and what is being done and what this means for the loss to come. Here are some figures in the discussion, and they vary virtually according to individuals and the family characteristics of those groups. If we take pay that can achieve your pay, you may find 246. K., and they increase according to projections for 2017, the current increase does not require large increases beyond that in order for that number to be 300 of you. K. That's what we're talking about, we're going to have to look at, and I'm going to emphasize it. This speech is beyond my reach, but it must be considered in context, and I pray to the highest degree. Governments taking care of all possibilities. I have one minute left of my speaking lesson, and there are many things I would have wanted to discuss. I specifically mention funding for the development of projects in the country, job structure and partnerships. In this context, the so - called third sector becomes very important to us in the coming years, and because of changing ages, and when we watch it, it saves a lot of money in the coming years. However, it is very important to overlook that activity and that it is transparent when it comes to providing financial resources. I would have liked to discuss the Substitute Fund, the State Radio, the Communications, the innovations, and the development of employment as the highest level. A government is truly adding, and it is well.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u11	Mr. President. I thank a senator for his conversation, he handled the budget well, and of course he saw them. I'd like to ask you what. A senator only into the insurance fee. Now the company has called on the government to cut down the insurance bill because part of the labour market contracts was that it would be reduced and that the reduction is considered to be far too low. What does that count? A senator on that subject? That this could result in the failure of a collective agreement to be extended in February next year's review? Hv. A member of the U.S. Senate made extensive transport efforts in the country and in the outing of tourism. Today, the tourist sector is returning a large currency to the country, some 340 billion, perhaps an irresponsible number. Got it. Don't you think a senator should be able to make a lot more money than the busiest amount of money to go on the budget, of course, that's a very low amount of money for the maintenance and management of transport workers and new projects? It's just a very small amount of money and this little addition made some adjustments between 1 and 2. There is, of course, a coin of small value in this context. 235 million people in maintenance of roads are something that runs out in a few days, and this is little enough to be almost smiling. [[The president calls.]] What does it say? A senator on this?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u12	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir for the questions and answers. First to the insurance bill, I can say here that I had hopes in the beginning of my terms that we would go faster on cutting down insurance bills. I'm just saying that, of course, it's necessary to go to it when unemployment is a lot, i.e. you have to deal with the government funds and really did, but when unemployment decreases, you'd want to see the insurance money down to the beat. I'm not talking about where our job life is based on less medium-sized enterprises and here we are putting in additional sums of money, which are truly being done in these innovations and development, trying to promote what is called the cost of human knowledge. It is important to deal with the economic situation in this area. However, in collective agreements it came to the highest level. The government would expect them to have a priority in changing income taxes and to reduce income taxes, rather than insurance, which has the highest value. Secretary of finance is doing a great job, and he's going to tell freezing freezing that it has to be done. And we can see this in these budgets, where we are about to reduce the proportion and reduce the pace.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u13	Mr. President. I want to go inside. A senator after one thing. A distress call from our National Hospital has come to the conclusion that our business and maintenance of about 3 billion are missing. Such wishes are supported from all sides and sides. A senator only entered the third sector, doubtless referring to the land hospital's receiving some good gifts, but we can hardly rely on him to be financed by voluntary donations, no matter how good they are. Doesn't count why. A senator that must meet this weight coming from the university hospital, the top hospital for all the people of the country, all of whom rely on being there? And would it not be acceptable for people to be in equipment rooms and all over the halls and there to be all that is seen in the Grings River and in other places, they must simply use the revenue that is needed to meet their wishes? At the end of the discussion of the elderly and the poor, I felt why. A senator has an understanding that it must be done better. That's what I'm talking about. A senator willing to revise his mind? Now the elderly and desperate will come here and have a meeting tomorrow morning in the East Field. They have at a meeting of the budgetary committees were very short - lived, and they refuted the claim that they have been added in terms of comparable relations with other employees in society. The righteous requirement is to be restored too, as other employees have received this year since May 1. That's what I'm talking about. A senator willing to revise his thoughts on payment and improving the interests of the elderly and the desperate? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u14	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir for the questions. These are large questions in view of the discussion, but first to the medical system. Of course, I need to consider the figures laid out for us in the budget, and there has truly been an increase in money in the Land Hospital. Now I'm not going to say that we don't need a new hospital; I'm not going to say that it doesn't need a billion or two; I just don't trust to bring a sentence on it. I welcome the additional development to put in that analysis, and I almost trusted to claim that the hospital is well fired. Of course, I haven't covered all the numbers, I don't have all the numbers available, I just trust the people working on that. We have great professionals and operators in this area who have done a great job in a very difficult situation, but 1, 2, 3 billion, I just expect us to agree on that. But it is, indeed, so I stress that it, has been greatly improved by health care, and I'm not going to tire out. A senator reading those figures, I know she's fully aware of them. With older people and poor people, I'll say the same. We're discussing the budget, and these requirements have been in place, and I told them earlier in my speech; I pray to the highest level. Governments to agree with these groups, and they look to the demands that are presented. First, in view of the social security legislation, pay will reach the minimum wage until 2018/2019. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u15	Mr. President. It may always be unattractive to be discussing these matters here at this point so late into the night, but I guess there's little to argue about. I would like to reflect on some of the parts that I discussed very little in my first talk. In view of the latest information, where it has been reported that it was missed to estimate less than 1,200 million. K. In the remuneration case for the teachers'sake, you look at it just differently, and the remainder is becoming even smaller than the last talk; it was 10.7 billion yesterday and is down to 9.5 billion today and perhaps if anything else is under control. It is a concern, in view of the cover of the committee's opinion, where it says that there is something in the country about starting subsidies. This means that the interest rate remains high, and of course, there is reason to wonder that after three years we are in the position, and yet there is a measure of interest, that this has not yet begun to lower anything as promised and that the foundation is a sad business of state funds. Also, on the cover of the greater part, I went to the committee party for an investment in the interiors. I was going to correct one point. It was said that commercial investors would decrease as a proportion of GDP to less than it was miswritten; the image shows a percentage between years. A little bit more from this opinion of the greater part. I also criticize, and we have done so on a financial committee, this with the money money. I don't feel that explanation when it comes to claiming that it is entirely under the control of the Bank Office to decide. Of course, it is the owner who suggests something, and then it may be a good plan to plan this in line with what has just happened before the bank's recovery, even though it is not taken to the highest level. I'd like to discuss a few things, outside the parentheses, which I did less in my first speech. I'd like to start with law enforcement, prison business, just discuss it. I'm very worried about these matters. Although there's 400 million in here. K. In that case, I'm concerned that the funds go primarily to reimburse the office's slush business. I don't think that's acceptable. This is true as it has been in our case here that it is very sad when the government officials compare the situation as they were when the last government took over and around when the government's budget was on its head, with 120 billion angles, and then the situation has been slowly and gypsy up; that people should allow themselves to appear here and act as if it was a wish to accept such a estate and a request to respond on that path needed, i.e. by cutting down almost everywhere. It is not something that any human would like to do to the extent that we were forced to do in the last term. In the case of law enforcement, I'm concerned about traffic safety. There's not much time left for you to see cars driving around the country, i.e. Police cars and surveillance. There's not much initiative under the police investigation. There is no drug dog in the East, although border security is there, and that is a very high cost. This should be one of the things represented on a budget board, that there's savings, it's more likely to work, that it's there. I don't understand why that way has not yet begun to make sure that the office has the necessary funds. With the prison case, I'm also in the General and Education Committee. There we are discussing a bill of full punishment. One factor is the situation and the whole prison situation. Páll Winkel, the prison director, comes to say that he needs much more money, that he is losing professionals he can't be without; that is human beings he doesn't pick up from the street, for it takes a special character to be in such a work that is designed to maintain law and order, just as it would be for humanity and to have compassion. An unjustified recommendation is not being made when it is spoken of as missing 80 billion. K. increase in the next year so that prison can be run safely. This involves not only the safety of prison guards but also the safety of the inmates themselves. For one thing, it says that there is much more to be left alone on duty. This is not only overlooked by Páll Winkel but also by the former president of the Society of the jailers. A thorough interview with him shows that there are a lot of minimal shifts due to various circumstances, including had an illness, or a wormoft, or something like that, and a person could not have been called out, which in itself was an almost dangerous situation. There's a lot of service being cut down. There's curfews being canceled, visits are being restricted, children's cabin was closed. Then some money is being given now and through financial contributions that are supposed to return, but it will not, it will be cut as hard again, if so much money is missing. What we are always trying to do in these matters is to bring a reproof, so we do not have to welcome back the same people again. It has been observed among the visitors who have visited the committee that, unfortunately, there are too many people coming back, and this is because there is no active reform policy or that it is at least very small. It is about strengthening the family and the conversation with their children, as well as other matters, to ensure that these reforms are effective. The system is also heartbroken, people who have lost their lives but are not allowed to do so. There are so many things that might not be large that could be fixed to make life more bearable, make people more able to come out again. If we're going to get some corrections, we might get a lot of savings, so later, we won't need much more money on the system. We just need to change that. I hope we'll make something further with this bill, that it's gonna be in the direction of it. It's not normal that 500 people are waiting for a penance in prison and we have 155 space. It's unacceptable. Though something will be right now with Hólmshökur, we have not seen to it that it can be fired. We need money to run it in the near future. We face the fact that the governor says that he has to close prisons next year. For example, I worry that Akureyri prison will be shut down. It's very bad for the families if we have to sell prisoners to the South. Neither is this advising that it is being done. So it's the other thing, because I know such personal cases, that when the situation is the way it is and we use it so small that you break up, so long a time, he's educated, he's come back with a family, he's come to a whole different place in life and even had this one serious offense behind, then he's going to have to go to serve. So today, it is torn out of the context of the day to serve. This is something we're supposed to intervene, it's savings, it's also part of fixing the system. We suggested that money be given to state prosecutors and police to counteract sexual violence. The other day, a seminar against violence in the country was being seen outside the capital area. There is a tremendous difference in the situation. It is also expensive, expensive to those who are involved, and it prevents the introduction of violence. The police were not using the resources she had, but now they are doing so; they are taking advantage of both restraining order and expulsion from home. The rural areas in the region, as in the north, are taking advantage of working a little together. What concerns us as generals is: What is required in order to correct matters? For example, domestic violence is not specifically recorded in the Akureyri Hospital. Although it is a newly appointed psychologist who is in charge of such a ministry, it has not been done. This is something that needs to be corrected and should not be complicated. Then, too, it is practical. It is the Minister's Committee, which has been at national meetings based on the work of Health and Public Health Declaration, as the World Health Organization does, as people know to work on violence in Icelandic society, but health ministers are not involved. I think it's very special, and I'm going to make sure he's not. They're trying to introduce this Southnes route that's also supposed to be dealing with this in the system, I think it's been shown well. However, access to the ministry is amazingly different, and it cannot be said that those living in the country sit at the same table. There are many of these. We've talked a lot about the Team here at a council in Akureyri. The ministry is not the same as it is in public, but it is equal service that needs also. And then there's the Suns on the Icefjord; there's four of you. a man who's being treated in the area. They are up - to - date, have schools in the area, have training courses for health - care professionals, but they have faced opposition in their work because it is a bad idea for society to have such discussions. It's all voluntary work, but it always takes some money. When I look at more of the budget board now, I ask myself, " Why are these people who are very special and who are taking care of the fundamental public health issues that we have combined to face in the cold? ' I think it's a very bad message. We need to improve the law and the rules. We need to make sure that the duties of rural society, in terms of sexual violence, enter the local government laws with definitions, etc. We need to increase the funding we are offering in the smaller section and to create a complete policy on our struggle. The education of such professions needs to be improved, and that is part of what we have anticipated that these funds will go on; and they need to be improved. All of this is something that we come to here, and we can make sure that the order around it is better. A respectable president. Now, I'm just going to go to a case that may have been most discussed with older citizens and disability. We had a meeting on a budget board this morning, as we know. I would like to quote the words of the prime minister, who said by permission of the president: There are a large number of people who have suffered from abnormal impairment, e.g. Old citizens and poorers, who need to get their things done [...] Iceland has enough resources, production capacity and knowledge so that everyone can enjoy their well-being. For that, all it takes is a sense of reason to rule the country. I think it's a clear message from the highest level. Prime Minister. I trust that he will follow through and make sure that this happens in the way that has been discussed here. We can discern a number of issues, but I do not agree with what was stated in the financial support of which it is said that in part of the increase in 2015 is accelerated to January 1 and all the increases due to January 2016 speed up to January 1 will be paid more in their pocket than the average person paid under the same pay number without pay. This is something I can't agree with. I heard no better than older civilians and poor people would agree with me on that. This has proved true. This morning's meeting, in the files left behind, also stated that income tax changes made by the government have not benefited this group. They point out that it was more reasonable that 1 tax step had been placed in 1.4% instead of doing so at 2 taxes. That would have returned to the very lowest of the incomes of about 3 of you. K. every month instead of 500 K. Of course, 36 would be. K. every year instead of less than six years. K. It's all important, all these numbers. But it was reduced by 0.18%, reminds me, the lower level, while the second step was reduced by 1.4%. So there are some things in this matter that we question and all of that, and we can be cutting our mouths at this. I also wondered, and I might ask, Why are certain tasks chosen above others? Here, for example, is one feature - not wonderful, not at all, but sometimes you wonder about the formation and disunition. It's torn apart by 200 yards. K. ... strengthat Thorberg. Next time, it's 59 million. K. temporary contributions to various sources completely uninvolved. I'd like to know if the 59 million people in charge know what's behind them. I would also like to know why a maintenance room did not receive money, as she requested, when it comes to the safety of sailors. Or why the walking department at Akureyri, the S.A., has been called in for a lot of money -- why they don't put up with contracts, and the U.S.A. isn't run by Akureyritown alone, but also according to a deal with the state. Why is the treaty not handled with the Manufacturer's Fund as it should? There are a number of factors that you wonder why your priorities are more important than others. Money to go to travel research - why not just go to the research center? Farmers have wanted a lot of things to be done, and when talking about income farm members, we've been talking about the value of public transportation tax. I don't know if everyone is aware that it will be this way at the end of the year that rural society has to pay due tax from public practice and other public transportation. There's been no way, another driving in public service, whether we're talking about driving a school or driving with a disabled person or not, and I would've wanted to see a change in it. Then I'd like to have seen a bill about the public transportation that fixed the situation today for them, when they're driving into public transports for which rural society stands. There are a lot of these cases, these are the roads that have been set in here. An internal minister promised that there was an interview at RUS about that, that a billion people would make a round around the Brufjörður world. I listened to her say that. Because peace had been achieved with the road, there was no problem with offering this out and, as it is currently not expected in financial matters. Of course, you ask yourself, " Why not? ' There are countless issues you consider, and especially when specific projects are being chosen for transportation, beyond a communication program, just because certain members of the Parliament think this is appropriate. They're picking out docks. I have not seen a request for extra funds in the Hafuna Fund, but I have not seen them go to these appointed ports. I can't let it pass by mentioning The Kingdom Radio in the rest, it will cheer everyone up, and then I'll go over it with a radio bill. We've talked about this many times and a lot, and some of us don't agree on it, whether it's the money or the interpretation of when and all of it, but it's just now that it's time for me to hope to the highest level. The Minister of Education can deliver a bill about the VR tomorrow, the government, for the radio fee. As we recall, in March 2013 it was legalized that radio charge would be $18800.; this was decided in 2011. Then, the price change, as it happens, goes on every year to pay at 19,400 bucks. In 2013, it was in the bandorminum. Then we will see that at the same time, the direction is taken down to 16,400k. When various criteria for budgeting for 2014 were set up in December, it was decided that the price would first be $1,700. and then next year, 16,400k. This was designed to reduce the curses of home and business, 250 million. K. it was said that these figures, which we have talked about much - and have been observed by both the majority and a smaller part that the VR was at a given time to get all the pay and even though there are more paying than was expected of them, the management of RUS and the radio director say that it is not enough to keep the current operation. It is such a personal decision whether we think it should be changed. For example, I have believed that RUSB should not be at a commercial market, but I believe it needs to be made up in some way; it's just a special decision. I think it's a decision we need to make, how we want this medium in the public service. Do we want to or don't we? We want it in the left green, I've given it a thorough argument. I think it's important to be able to trust that this is a multicenter, not dependent on forces in a particular competitive market, but only on the laws of every authority he conducts. However, I feel that it is very important that things can be determined in the future. Although it moves something, it is never that much, the number paying it is important that the world around such a business, that to some particular year it does not have to consider whether the money will be enough for the next year. But many are heading in the right direction. I'm not gonna deny it. Over the past few years, progress has been made. It's still in irons, and now the rest are further down. We talk about priorities, and it's like being in politics, we have different priorities. Our emphasis has been in speech and literature here at the council, and I don't have to do it any more. Still, I'm concerned about things. I'm worried about a triple-wrong operation. I'm worried about young people moving out of the country, and so on. I think it's a common interest for us all to create a reasonably good society, even though we have a different view of it. We want as many as possible, and that's why we might have to deal with the issues we're facing today and have been most discussed; that's the business of older people and desperate people. They also need to make sure that they have the same value as the rest of us, and they stop aiming at a situation that is not dominant today, as it was here in 2009.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u16	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir gave the talk, thinking that she was in her second speech, with the lead in the first speech and that she spoke of committees as slow as possible. A senator stands for, i.e. The Committee considers a smaller portion of the budget. I'd like to say in the beginning before I ask a question that I consider it a model of my memory to bring up three committee views that are designed to strengthen the work here and the debate in the Assembly Hall and create a good ground for discussion. Hv. A senator brought in much of the committee's opinion. In part, I'm going to stick to the committee opinion that's excellent and start with that as early as possible. A member of the committee's talk came up a little in his speech, with a view to the better use of resources, as well as an anti-labortion tax policy in Iceland. Now it is that the Habitat biography study contains information on the Gii constant before 2014. There it is 22.7, between 0 and 100. The lower he gets, the less he gets, the less he gets his income. They went to the highest level in 2009 in 29.6. How does that explain why? Senator of this difference, this reduction?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u17	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. This difference is likely to be explained in many ways. I'm not seizing that we're moving in a better direction, I've said that, towards equations, but we need to do better. As we have seen in our talk and in our publications, it is not enough to do, and if we continue as we look, we are expected, and so have we, in fact, done so. By OECD, we're going back inexorably, and that's not what we want to do. I believe we can maintain this equation. I don't think we can maintain it if we exit the path that was, and that's not just me. It has been published in many parts of the world, and there are very few reasons, including some of them. In the winter of Cambridge and elsewhere, we discussed studies where it has been shown that this is not going to work long-term. Let us not forget that it can be that way in the case of innuendo, it touches everyone, or should be able to do so, but the downtrodden will always come a little harder on those who have been remembered. In the nature of the matter, this is how it is explained. I think we agree on the fact that we really want to maintain an equation, but I think we have a different approach to whether we believe that the policy of this government is going to be in order for it to remain or not. I'm worried about it, like many others, that it won't happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u18	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Of course, the Gini factor is not a universal measure and does not cover everything, for example, the criteria depend on the way the tax system is built up. This may take place between non-employment factors. However, it cannot be overlooked that this is really an indication of the increased equation. If you look at them, they'll pay their taxes and tax changes as high as possible. They have been supported by a government by the Giini factor to provide an increased equation. There is something else in this living study of the Habitat, which is positive. The lower limit of minimum is 7.9% from the 11.1% comparator year before, and there is still another indication that this is the highest. A government is on its way to the tax business. I mentioned in the counter-reguage that I thought it was very important for the discussion of this beautiful committee opinion of my parts. It is very clear, and this strengthens the discussion and argument base here at the Hall, a clear difference in government and government, thus strengthening the platform. There is also the fact that income distribution has never been more balanced and is not found in a European country where income distribution is equal. This tax change is the highest. The government is indeed returning.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u19	Mr. President. That's what I'm worried about. Of course, from year to year we will talk about how the tax policy comes out, and there are measures, such as the case. A senator knows, underlying, that can also affect the situation of the individual. That's what worries me. Thomas Piketty and others, quoted in Cambridge University studies, have said, as well. A senator came in, that there are things that affect it every year. I'm worried this won't hold, i.e. The tax policy that is fired along with the other measures that have resulted in some specific activity, such as changing the position to the one it was during the past year, is not as sure as the year or the next to come out as it is likely to reflect among the measures made here. We also know that the equation will return at some X-long time. We need to look over longer periods, but maybe one year when we look at changes in taxes. And when they say, we have called the bread loaf theory, or something like that, or that one tax step is not to be leveled, we have faith that this is the way it is, and that is what desperate and older citizens point out that the operation that has been useful to the lowest earners, if we are looking for it, and if we are looking for it now, we are looking at it a little bit. We believe we should stop there now. So that means they're less of a tax policy type, but they'd do it if the step shift had been different from what it is now. There are some underlying variables that affect every year, so let's examine this over time and see.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u20	A respectable president. There are many things to do when it comes to the budget and the adjustments made. I'm going to spend my time reviewing these matters in general, and it's the opinion of the committee that more of the legal committees have submitted. Therefore, it should be noted that the government's income is increasing and that the third year in a row is headed for a lax business. As a result, the increase in income has been used to increase donations for basic services. While some effort has been made on these products, there is no country to start a real payment, and interest costs remain the third most expensive category, according to health care, and social security. Certainly, I would have wanted much more money to pay for, especially when considering the significant increase in income that has taken place in recent years. There were two options, to return leftovers that could have been used to cover a huge debt of state funds, where annual interest payments have studied about 80 billion dollars, i.e. largely double donations for a local hospital every year, or as a health - care system, put money into foundations. The latter route may be said to have occurred, and it can certainly be reasoned, " Which will be the long - term success. ' We want strong structures in society, but we also want to use the high payments that grow in other things to build up a better society. A cumulative need for investment in infrastructure, such as transport construction, and a change in population age calls for additional expenses. We can also point out that our contributions to university have been less emphasis on these countries than in the countries that we best compare with them. I'm sorry. This, however, requires priorities. Forethought should be a key factor. How will we exchange the cakes we have in front of us? What category is to be received? For example, what are we ready to do with much health care? This is a key question, and with discussions in the media and community media, opinions are very different. Why not look for a nation's opinion on what money may be about? It's the taxpayers' money. Is it not right to listen to these people's opinions and to distribute money accordingly? Consider, for example, health issues. Today, about 161 billion will travel. to this seminary in the next year's budget. Here I am talking about Land Hospitals, Other Hospitals, Health Services, Health Organizations, Aging Services, and Insurance Services connected to this category. Do we want to double this amount? If we feel that the need is so urgent that there is a need for large sums of money, there are only two ways to meet it, to make new money, and to cut down. We can keep discussing our priorities. We can constantly argue over what to do and how much to go to each of the thousands of moneymakers. Such an argument does not bring much back. It is necessary to look at the bigger picture and have a clear future direction. Unfortunately, the budget has often been missing in Iceland. I mentioned only health issues earlier, but this group has been in the priority of the present government. The figures speak for themselves; contributions to Hospitals included over 38 billion dollars. of budget 2013. In 2016, this figure has reached 50 billion bucks, 50 yous. A million. K. Thus, hospital contributions have increased by 30% in just three years. Total contributions to hospitals have increased by less than 35% at the same time. In 2013's budget, contributions to health care were made to nearly 8 billion dollars. Today, this amount has reached 10 billion dollars. This is how we can go on. This has increased by 26% in the last three years, a total of over 19 billion dollars. Finally, I would like to mention aging institutions, but contributions to them have increased by a quarter in just three years. I'm telling you, it hardly seems to be based on a vaccine that has increased as rapidly in the last three years as it has in the region. That does not mean that the United States Health Organization is the best thing in the world. Far from it, neither will it be the best in the world if we put an additional 3 billion or 10 billion in it. Even more money would be needed, though we put another 20 to 30 billion in the medical system. Why? Because new, better, and more expensive drugs are constantly being developed, as well as new and better devices. We can simply do better in health matters. I believe the Icelandic medical system needs more money. It is unacceptable that people need to lie in the halls of hospitals. It is unacceptable that supplies are absolutely unnecessary and that funding should not be given in life - threatening procedures. However, the latter also has priorities within hospitals. In the discussion, it is best to understand that those in authority are bad people who want patients, elderly ones, and microorganisms all the worst. I don't know any man who doesn't support these lawsuits, either within the council or outside. You might think, based on the community media discussion, there's nothing here but a bad guy. Of course not. One major issue of our day is the health system. Chemicals associated with the elderly and micro-piercants arrive at a dose below. This is also related to a growing number of elderly ones over the years and decades. Clearly, there will be an increase in the number of nurses for the elderly of up to 1,700 over the next 15 years, costing themselves on this level of some 54 billion dollars. Of this number, there are about 1,100 spaces in the capital area. The elderly are not a loud pressure group, so they are usually at the top of their priorities. During the decades that followed, the nation's age changes dramatically. This is how the 67 - year - old or older population is expected to increase by more than 26 thousand over the next 15 years, i.e. about 71% from today's. It is estimated that those 80 years of age and older are about 6,600, i.e. about 55%. These major changes require other and different health standards that need attention to the needs of this growing group. Sadly, a clear policy in the elderly has been missing. Most families know the problems that arise when elderly relatives need to be placed in a nursing home. Often, there are 250 to 300 people in the waiting lists for that space, and these people have to wait for months. Unchanged, this waiting period will be greatly prolonged. The loss of the last few years of donations made to the health of the elderly has seriously affected them. Service has been reduced, and the cost of medicine has increased. This has to change. There is a great need to strengthen the quality of your home service and support. This group also lacks a clearer course, with a view to the future. The budget bill assumes that pay from the Lands Bank will collect about 7 billion dollars. next year. A greater proportion of the legal committee points out that there is a greater chance that money paid by the National Bank will be paid. It's safe to agree. In view of the experiences of the past years and the reviews of the annual bank resolutions, pay may be worth at least a hundred billion dollars more than a plan is expected. Nevertheless, the more part is concerned with general precautions and therefore does not suggest an increase in money-making programmes. However, I would not be surprised personally, though, that there was a number of billions that would make the contribution of a Kingdom Fund so that it would actually be far better than expected in this bill. Remuneration is now estimated to increase by 8.8 billion. ... ofmanythings. The weight increase is a reassessment of the pay base of budgets due to the effect of collective labour agreements, resulting in a total of less than 5 billion dollars. increase. In fact, in 2015 and as a new projection for 2016, the rate of increase between the years is estimated to be 3.2% and 1.3% reduced from the bill. Overall, prices for prices change from 3.8% to 2.2%, thus reducing the value of 2.3 billion dollars. This is why. Thus, the net effect of pay, prices, and gang changes is 3 billion. to increase. Other changes weigh the weight of the government's many decisions, a total of 4.9 billion dollars. Of these, 1 billion are found. to assist with security and refugees, and there are some 840 million proposals. K. for a temporary shortening of the waiting list for specific procedures in the medical system, such as coronary intervention, replacement surgery, and ocular stone surgery. There is also 490 million. K. contribution to infrastructure development at tourist locations and 400 billion. K. to promote law enforcement, 250 million. K. for action on climate, 280 million. K. in a study study on hepatitis C, 150 million. K. to strengthen the organization of reservations and 150 million. K. for travel research. Then a proposal is made about 75 million. K. temporary contributions for three years to build a guest room at a local community park. Especially should the government's decision to provide considerable sums of money for refugees and to receive people from war - torn areas. We cannot escape the great problem in Europe, where millions of people are streaming in from war - torn lands. The problem, however, is much larger, since a large number of those seeking refuge come from countries where war conditions are not at hand, especially from the Balkans. These people are often looking for a better life, more secure employment, higher pay, etc. What are we going to do with these people? These factors have put pressure on the so-called Schengen teamwork which assumes that there is a strong external check but little or no monitoring when people on other levels are introduced to the Schengen border. It tells itself that this cooperation can go on for a long time unless the unbound flow of people into the Schengen area is stopped as soon as possible. This is final action, but we will see how it is done. The elements of refugees and refugees are related to contributions for development. These contributions have been increased in recent years, although we are still much under international standards. It has been determined that the assistance of a student of 0.21% of the gross national income and, on the basis of that criteria, contributions to the Development Agency have been increased by 690 million. K., i.e. about 50% since 2011. A greater proportion of budgetary committees correctly noted that according to international criteria called DiaC/OECD guidelines, expenses for development have been targeted at the percentage of national incomes. The majority of the data shows that the percentage has not been calculated correctly since much of the expenditure due to trustrs should be classified as development aid. If correctly calculated, the percentage of Iceland is about 0.25% of national income and even higher if the EFTA development programme includes refugees. Such calculations do not seem to be fully comparable, but other countries in the north are reducing general development support to a large increase in the cost of refugees. The majority of the budget committees comment that this is not being done here and that I can comment. So it's clear that a debate about Iceland's share is not based on the right information. If governments intend to stick to their target of 0.21%, the donations are much higher than that, and there are several hundred million. In addition, the majority contributes to the addition of remunerations in certain judicial categories. There are 400 million. K. to the seafront and to be specifically discussed in this field of ratings. There's another 400 million. K. designed to build up airports within the country and 235 million. K. To the roadmaking. A telecommunication fund is granted temporarily to 200 million. K. to speed up the development of communications timber, and finally, a proposal is made about 100 million. K. to health institutions, but to other inhibitors, weighing less. In turn, economic and systematic spending may be reduced. It's about 490 million. K. reduction to the Icelandic loan fund, where new borrowers drop and 350 million. K. decrease to employment insurance, where unemployment is now estimated to be 2.9% instead of 3% previously. The decline of unemployment in recent years is a special source of joy. It is vital to come as most workers to the job market, thanks to the economic force that is needed in many of the times. The TV has been in the limelight for the past few weeks and months, and it has been required to perform surgery and even to sell part of the company or whole. It has especially been directed to the radio charge and to whether it should be lowered or not. The government radio has played an important role in Icelandic society for an acute century. This role has not been linked to the exchange of information. It has also been in the field of culture and recreation, to name just a few. Of course, in the days of a local radio, there was more to the Kingdom News, but let's not belittle its role today. On the other hand, we must also weigh the changes in our use of the media, especially through the computer and the Internet. The importance of the State Radio when it comes to sharing information is not as important as it once was. The security role of the Kingdom broadcaster has repeatedly raised questions, especially when personal media have already been introduced to the public by means of needed information. It is also possible to ask whether a government medium should compete with the advertising media and whether to compete with them in entertainment. These are all important questions that we need to answer. However, we must not forget the cultural role of The Kingdom Radio, the task of imparting what makes us a nation, the things that separate us from others, the things that make us what we are. Some say we can get it all on the Internet, but there is a great chance that our culture, tongue, and other such things will simply get lost over time if it is to be hidden from the Internet. When it comes to culture and art and the presentation of these things, the radio has a priceless role. I'm a sponsor for the State Radio, but there is good reason to reexamine the company's business with savings in mind. Much of the respect here is the same as in our neighboring countries, where there is a national radio. Costs have increased, and changes in public consumption patterns have led to changes. We must not be afraid of change, we have developed our future policy in the affairs of the Kingdom News, but cutting down into future policy is not a good policy. The state radio status is best reflected in the radio bill. The postwar radio charge rose in the last two years by 563 billion. K., i.e. Less than 18%, which is much more than the general financial resources of the state. For years the budget has been determined that a section of radio fees goes directly to the state's budget and is therefore not fully set up as a contribution to the Kingdom News. Of course, this is unacceptable. The price must be paid and must be slided to the RUS. If not, it must be replaced in another way. The largest section on budget for 2015 is quoted as follows: 53.5 billion have been studied by provisions to the Substitute Bank. 5.7 billion dollars will be spent in 2009 and in total. in 2015. Among these, since 2009 the contributions were taken, as did the construction cost of a new land hospital. If nothing has to be done, contributions will continue to increase for years. A social and housing labour group has provided a report that was most effective in quitting the current fund and would most likely prevent further payment from being funded for it. It is important that governments make a decision as soon as possible as possible about the future of the fund, with the goal of preventing further financial expenses from it. Clearly, these comments have not been taken into account in terms of the local taxpayers'costs. It is assumed that once again there will be a reimbursement of the state's funds, in particular $1,300 billion. K. next year. Credit loans will continue and will not continue for long. It is imperative that the result be determined on the future of the camp loan fund. The taxpayers simply have an application for answers in this regard. The decision has been too slow, and it is necessary that the fund's future be clarified at the beginning of the new year. Year - to - year pay rates are difficult to obtain at the expense of the State Fund. The financial and economic costs have been re-evaluated, and including 11% increase in pay during the current year, it is now estimated that a cumulative increase in pay will be 16.3% in 2016 and 19% when up-titration is fully implemented. These include the expected increases in salary already expected in the bill and the reevaluation of the effects of the pay raise in 2015, on a yearly basis, it is estimated that a combined raise in pay will be 20.9 billion per year. in 2016. Then countless are comparable to the increase in social security benefits categories that are estimated to be 10.1 billion. A total of 32 billion dollars will thus increase the expenses of the state's budget. next year because of the money and the relief money. This is not to say the entire story, since this has not yet been determined to influence the rise in the pension debt of state funds. The magnitude of that amount can be reached, in spite of high limits, by extrapolating commitments as they are at the end of 2014. At that time, the bridge was 667.5 billion. 4,345.6 billion. If the state funds are cut off from the total debt. The former 19% increase when all the effects of the contract are achieved, the number of bridges will increase to 94 billion, i.e. about 126.5 billion. The final assessment is not until the next year, but these numbers are probably not far off, so it would be the most long-term currency in terms of government bills in due time. Telecommunications are burning on a number of rural communities, and this has clearly been shown during visits by local government officials to the financial committees, not just this year, but in recent years. The majority suggest that an additional proposal in the bill be given a telecommunication fund of 200 million. K. to develop fiber optic systems outside the market area of communication. The 2nd. The budget for 2015 awarded 300 million to the General Assembly. K. a temporary donation for one year to the fund, and this suggests that part of the contribution will be extended. In the West, the production of ring-links was done, and the connections of the non-connected local core were made according to the current communication programme. The proposal in the bill is now based on the work of the Minister of Ministers on communications improvements, Iceland light-related, and the possibility of completing the building plans that began in 2015. The status of communication is in many ways high in this country and active competition guarantees most market areas options for continuous, more efficient and safer network connections. However, this structure does not cover some 3,300 legal homes and employment facilities in the more remote regions of the country. The structure of rural fiber systems will be limited in terms of market planning. So such an assignment must be given for financial gain. There is an analysis of the extent and cost of targets for access to network services available to all independently of the site. If this is achieved, it is a significant step forward. Further implementation and funding for the development of a member of the head of the state is being implemented as input into a review of the Communication Programme of 2016-226. This has led to a significant improvement in the support of other services and to the fact that the cost of a specific procedure in the construction of a fiber - optic cable has resulted in only about 30% of the original schedule. It must be stressed to support projects that make the most of this possibility possible. The estimated total cost of linking a fiber - optic 3300 home with 99.9% of national homes is estimated to be some 5,200 million. K. That cost, however, did not all fall on the government funds but would become a teamwork project for the market and others. Thus, by increasing money, the first phase of the nation's fiber - optic system can be attacked and completed by a communication plan, which involves the link of a non-computer's core. It must be considered a human rights issue in 2015 to have access to a good Internet connection, not to mention how it affects information flows, enterprises etc. Therefore, the importance of the government of this case is to be celebrated. It is also proper to mention only the many forms of transportation. For practical and effective transport building plans to be successful, interest payments must primarily be reduced, thus paying off the debt. Few other ways are more effective. With the progress of the state funds, opportunities for improvement in transport are increasing, but more routes than direct expeditation must be sought further. Strategies for transport, such as two -fold Western roads, Daffy Ways, and Southland development, are examples of projects that can well be sought to finance and carry out and make progress. It is also necessary in reviewing transport programmes to explore additional options directly on these roads. These are some of the largest transport costs in the country, and it is not surprising that the benefits of financing, e.g. By reimbursement, be a part of such financing. However, the agreement must be maintained in such a collection so that no amount of currency will be made to one of the systems beyond the other, as the Committee of the greater part says. I can totally agree with that point of view. We are to be careful about covering expenses, but we must not rule them out, as they are practiced in many lands around us. In other parts of the country, it is urgent for road safety and urban development to try to speed up road construction projects. There are still thousands of miles of dirt roads without stretch marks. Many of these roads are busy, and daily people have to go to work and school after them. With changing employment and housing patterns, there is still a growing number of people who are applying for long distances from home. With unchanged financial contributions, decades begin to improve roads and achieve adequate transportation, according to a greater proportion of the legal committees. Together with rural society and basic school management, distance and time in school cars have also increased substantially in many parts of the country and have to take into account that need to be taken into account. A number of interesting adjustments have been made in the majority of areas. For example, this is 75 million. K. a donation to start the preparation and design of a 4,500 square feet office building for the General Assembly instead of a rented house and a 750 square foot taxicab. The newly built mold is between Church Street, Hope Street, and Tannar Street. Today, the General Assembly has 4700 square feet of rent on East Street for committees, senators, members of Congress, and employees of the office. According to the primary budget, the total cost of the building is estimated to be about 2.3 billion dollars. and that it will be constructed in 2017,202019. A rent in 4900 square miles below the office is inevitable, especially one of the most expensive rented places in the country, the city itself. Thus, it is urgent to combine these activities in one place, and there is no doubt that these will lead to much long - term savings. Then there is room for debate about drawings as they please, but that can never be the point of the matter. We also see 150 billion. K. An additional reserve in the housing fund, but the General has agreed to the existing reservations. Farmers in many parts of the country are interested in organizing and developing reservations according to these laws, but costs are high and have applications for strength when reaching the fund. So this additional document will meet this need. I particularly welcome additional funds to the education system, though they certainly were allowed to be much greater, both to university and to high school. This is a suggestion of about 80 million. K. A temporary addition to the Alduary Fund of the University of Iceland, founded in June 2011, to celebrate the 100th birthday of the school. The aim of the fund is to promote research and innovation, which will be used for the development of employment and valuables in behalf of Icelandic society and nation. Then a proposal is made about 25 million. K. a contribution to the University of Akureyri to finance a joint contract at the University of Reykjavík about a two - year diploma study in computer science. It is proposed that the cooperation takes place in such a way that students in Akureyri receive lectures, lectures, tasks, and other material from teachers in the University of Reykjavík, such as remote students, and then attend a class of projects at Akureyri School with instructors, such as day - to - day students. The future, therefore, must be considered a very positive step into the future, and it will be intriguing to see how it works. In addition, the University of Akureyri gets 40 million. K. contributes to the development of telecommunications, which is of the same opinion. The University of Reykjavík and the University of the Bifrost each receives 50 million each. K. Additive contributions according to the proposals of a greater proportion of legal committees, and a number of high schools also receive additional donations according to the same proposals. It is important not to neglect the education system. The cutting of that field will not be good for us if we look forward to the future. I welcome additional donations, but I would have liked to see those amounts a little higher. I've mentioned refugee cases before. It's 500 billion. K. temporarily contributing to international institutions and relief organizations working with refugees abroad, such as the United Nations Refugee Organization for Refugees, the United Nations Food Organization for Refugees, the United Nations Refugee Organization for Palestinians, and other international agencies and urban organizations that operate in the field of humanitarian assistance. The proposal rests on the government's approval since September 19th. to protect up to 1 billion dollars. In addition to past budgets to respond to the situation that has come up as a result of the growing number of refugees and refugees. According to the Committee of Ministers on the Affairs of Refugees and immigrants, there are expected to be a cutoff of 500 million. K. will be spent at the State Department for financial support to international and international aid organizations, 250 million. K. to the Ministry of Health for the arrival of refugees in 2016 and the secondary costs and $250 billion. K. to the Ministry of State to meet an increasing number of inmates and meet the demands of speech speed. A respectable president. Much has been discussed about the interest of elderly ones and poor older ones in the past few days, and the facts have not been turned upside down in this discussion. One of the first decisions made by the United States government and the left greener was to cut the terms of the elderly and the disability, which was made on July 1, 2009, shortly after that government began its reign. To be reasonable, it is proper to consider paying to those on the striped ears not to be affected but to those who made money. The decision to reduce payment to the elderly and to make disability was made, saying that there had been a collapse and that everyone had to participate. The present government has put it first to reduce the declines of the elderly and the desperate in the days of the former government. One of the first works for the current government in the summer of 2013 was to eliminate the rule that pension fund was devoid of basic pension. At the same time, there was a payoff for the income, the pension income of the elderly, and the raising of disability, and so on. This means extensions to the elderly and disability are 7.4 billion. higher a year than that. And what lies ahead? Beers for the elderly and disability will rise by 9.7% next year. It is an additional 3% increase during the last year, costing about 4.3 billion dollars. Good point, this is an increase that others did not receive at the time. This next year's less than a 10% increase is equal to 4 billion which are retrospectively increased due to annual pay development. Let us briefly consider these points. The elderly and the disability grew 3% by the end of the year, 9.7% increases over the coming years, and it is likely that they will have up to an 8% increase after a year, and then is based on the estimate of a pay number. This index has been followed by payments for them. Elderly people are not overcrowded by their payments, that's for sure. But their progress has progressively improved, and it will continue to improve in the history of this government. I'd love to, and I'll certainly put it to work here at the council. I've said it before, and I can repeat it now. I welcome the changes made by a greater proportion of the legal committees. They are a positive step toward a better society in which money - sharing is tried to maintain balance. The makings are numerous, but often they are, so relatively small amounts of money can make a difference. V.E.G. President. Finally, I would like to make some comments about the budget in Iceland. I have been disappointed in her overall attitude. The independence of the Generals is of utmost importance. The legislature must have the last word when it comes to sharing our funds. The present majority of the budget committees have gone beyond what has previously been known to promote this independence. We can see this in the form of adjustments as well as the discussions in the media that repeatedly tested the independence of those on the budget. The pressure is high on additional expenditures or cuts from councils, councilmen, members of the council, and countless stakeholders outside the House. Under such circumstances, strong bones are needed to withstand frequent and frequent unscrupulous attacks and demands. Sadly, all too often the media participate in that dance without criticism. There is an ever - increasing charge of spending, but at the same time, there is the same loud demand that the government's funds bring more rest. It's not always going together. At the beginning of my talk, I mentioned the importance of looking to the future, having long - term thoughts on the budget. Hopefully, then, we will achieve our goal by means of a new government law. I hope we succeed in getting out of our short - term thoughts on the budget that can even harm us for a long time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u21	No matter the 4th mg. 10th par. Congress, about the length of a meeting, suggests that a meeting meeting can last longer than the Senate dictates. Is there a vote for this proposal made by the president?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u22	A respectable president. As the first day, I have no comment on the fact that this is going on tonight and until midnight, but since we are still in the Senate's first speeches on the financial law of the Icelandic state, I do not believe in any way that such talks are given at night. That's why I'm asking a president if he wants clearance to midnight. If so, there are no comments to that and not requests a vote on it, but if he intends to continue a meeting longer than midnight, I ask for a vote and a reminder that all the argies that happened to that decision yesterday, we did not continue in the discussion. On the contrary, the two hours that were passed in the night did not shorten the discussion. Money from what might otherwise have happened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u23	President. I'll take notes and give them a heads-up. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar for an evening meeting. I think it's only natural that the president wishes to be found here tonight, but at the same time, I'd like to draw the attention of a president because he wasn't on President's shift last week, that it's not in order to improve the atmosphere of a chamber when there's no time to meet. I would have assessed the political situation both within and outside, so much of it did not do anything because there were reasonably good ways between men to discuss various applications of how we completed Christmas Congress work. Because there's no way to improve that atmosphere, sir, so I'm kind of showing President that a meeting that will be held until midnight won't cause any trouble, but if we're going to do the same nonsense as yesterday, I'm afraid that the more part won't get much out of the case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u24	The president believes he cannot bind himself to the fact that this meeting will be completed by the end of the year. 12 tonight. There are 18 people still on the rosary, almost everyone at the first talk, and it is clear that when such a thing is so at the start of this discussion, about 30 members of the council had requested to address the budget, with a permit time of 40 minutes, it will not be a day job alone. Then the president will simply take action to extend a meeting with the permission of the council, as presented here. On the other hand, the president is always prepared to discuss matters equally with government and government opposition in an attempt to pay the best results and to find some conclusion about this discussion. It is not on that subject, and he is willing to present himself as such. In itself, though, he does not consider it unnatural to be a long - term discussion of sheep laws, but in recent years it has been a failure. It came about in the fall of 2012 if a president fails to memory, and unfortunately, it is 2nd. The budget has lasted longer in the last few years than ever.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u25	V.E.G. President. I fully support the President's proposal for a long meeting, and I hope he stands up for the night because the meeting that was conducted last night was very good. This was a very good exchange, interesting talks were delivered, and basically all I can complain about last night's meeting was that it wasn't exactly long enough. We would have been much better off if we had extended the meeting a little, so I encourage a meeting this evening to last as long as it takes to continue listening to these upbuilding and excellent talks that have been held on the budget bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u26	Mr. President. You're absolutely right by the Topv. President, some talks are better at night than in the day. Many people also like to be in places other than their home at night. I'm not in that group, as everybody knows. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [["Not until after... "]] However, I say it caught my attention here yesterday that we, the one who has been very long in the days, had the strength to sit down. We're quite ready to stay, and I'm at the top. To be at least 1 o'clock, Mr. President. 12th On the other hand, I saw that of the younger men who were weak, they were greatly drawn up to take part in the discussion. I'm not particularly looking at the former president of the Department of Justice or the chairman of a council of candidates. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] On the other hand, I think if it's the highest. The president intends to have a meeting long into the night, which I'm out of my mind to protest at this stage, unless perhaps with regard to the health of the younger senators, it is essentially minimal that those we have to have a place to speak with are here. [[The president calls.]] This is where people have been giving big speeches, such as why. Óli Björn Kárason's members, the God - Guðlaugur Þór Thor Þórðarson, are full of the kind of material that needs to be answered, and there is nothing for such a man to go back to his den and sleep there when he wants to deal with that phrase.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u27	There's gonna be time for a meeting at the same time. Today, it's 13 in the interest of some committees.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u28	To answer, health minister, education minister, industrial and business minister, social and housing minister, and marine emissary and agricultural ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u29	A respectable president. We're here in the middle of a discussion about the budget. On such occasions, a person is overwhelmed by the financial laws, and I have been taking a special look at the affairs of immigrants or those of the people of the foreign land who are from a foreign background. You have to say the same thing when you look at the budget that case is very invisible. Few teams come directly to the seminary, it's more hidden in museums and behind institutions. I would like to direct my words to the highest. Secretary of education in this context. In effect, the only clear section on education is now 8% of the population of foreign parents or non - parents. When you look at the trend on that team, it's a big surprise because in 2008 and 2009, about 250 million were joined by this group, but it immediately dropped into 130 million and is now 145 million. The cost of language training from immigrants is, in fact, unique in the North. Here it is only partially paid and that ratio has gone down. Attending Icelandic education has become a barrier to immigrants. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Education and cultural minister how he feels about it and if he doesn't agree with me that it's important that the education system, like any other system, is important to all the people of the country, including those 8% who have moved in one way or another.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u30	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry and would like to first say that I've previously said that it is very important, now that we are discussing, for example, the number of refugees we want to receive, that men look for more than their months or the period when refugees arrive in the country. For many years, especially children's families, we need to keep up - to - date and ensure money on the school system so that these children can be received. We'll see it in numbers, for example. about the children's locks, that children who are of a foreign background may be considered inferior to the children of the Icelanders. That is why the effort we have now launched and financed, the effort to improve the student's reading, is taken to the point. It is of benefit to all, both to children and to children of the Icelandic world, to children who are broken and also to foreign children. It's useful to the groups there. The most important thing is to make sure that all children can read and read in English so that the school material is available for their benefit. I reiterate that at the next loss, these factors need to be looked at. If we look for more refugees in particular, we need to see them in the overall context. I've felt that there was something missing in this discussion right now on the point. A senator here notices that we have enough funding for both Icelandic education, that there's enough money to deal with this in the schools, in the nurserys, and really in the whole education system. At the same time, I'd like to say that a campaign like the lock process is directed to all students and is to be of benefit to all of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u31	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. The effort on locks may not have been clear enough for us senators, but you have been concerned that it does not look especially to those speaking another language and that it is not caring for the mother - to - be - read lesson of those who are completely reading. I want to point the top. A minister is supposed to be a very small part of this entire multitude. Although we welcome several dozens ofakists or perhaps hundreds of refugees throughout the world, there are tens of thousands of foreigners in Iceland who speak another language as their first language. I encourage ministers to join me and others at the council to strengthen this system, especially when it comes to funding. [[The president calls.]] That doesn't take much.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u32	A respectable president. With regard to that large group as a dog. One senator noted that the basic school in the community has developed and offered some resources. In fact, there is reason to thank the local community for many of them taking great pride in this project. However, it can be said that in a very small number of rural communities, it can be difficult to offer a mother - to - teach lesson for all students. It kind of says itself, and it doesn't need to explain. On the other hand, technological changes will open up new possibilities for this development, and it would probably be to support them in the best possible way. By welcoming foreigners, whether in this group or just the people who choose to come here, live with us and work with us, there are great opportunities for us Icelanders to invest in this group, especially the children, to make sure that they learn Icelandic. As we learn the language, we also learn the values, ideas, and the world of ideas that we ourselves have developed and thus have much better opportunities to become part of the community. [[The president calls.]] They need people in this country, and we'll benefit from getting only more people in here as far as they're concerned.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u33	A respectable president. From all over the country, we call from people of all categories to the government to be reasonable about the fairness of their purchases rising back and forth from the same time as everyone else in the country. I'm asking a social minister if she wasn't fighting for the fact that this was going to be done. I'm asking a social minister if she doesn't have any hope that this change will get past 3rd. ... abundant. Or should we, a respectable president, believe that the elderly and the desperate have no helper in the government, who are fighting for this for righteousness'sake? I'm waiting for the highest. A minister to remember that in 2011, when there was no good, political priorities could be set so that these groups would be raised at the same time as others. I ask the Minister to stop arguing with the older citizen's National Association and the Micro-Community Alliance for the terms of these groups, they know them best. Percent says little in this context, pensioners have got over five of you. K. this year's increase, we all of the council's got 60 points. Mr. K., Ministers over 100 up. K. All such comparisons are secondary in themselves, for they are not the main points of the matter. The point is, it's not about money or percentage, it's about that the elderly and the poor receive the same treatment that everyone else in the country, from the same time and in the same way. I hope the Minister of Social Affairs has good news for us in this regard or can at least give us hope that people will be corrected as people from all sides to be unjust. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u34	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. The answer to that question is: Yes. This minister has since her office fought for better suitable pensioners and the first step they took was to withdraw the impairments. A senator and his associates were standing in 2009. Regarding the up-to-date improvement in social security from January 1, 2016, it will be based on, like year one. A senator should know quite well, on 69 C.E. Act on social security. According to legal hearings at 2nd. The improvement in social security will increase by 9.7%. Previously, they had been suggested to rise by 9.4%. This means that the improvement of a person or a single person who lives at a minimum wage will be 246,902 k. with household replacements I just want to slide through how it's calculated. This increase will take into account the reevaluation of Iceland's Economic Standards in November of the development of a pay grade that will result in a loss of pay. There is an increase in the average population in both the current year and the next year. This means that the average increase in pay for the year 2015 above 3% improvement in social security at the beginning of this year is included in the increase in 2016 budget. The cumulative elevation of 3% in the 2 years 13% resulted in a 3.6% increase in 2014 was an cumulative increase of 17.1%. At the same time, however, the cumulative increase in prices was 7.1%.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u35	A respectable president. Then we've heard the Minister's percentage list. Everyone knows it doesn't matter much in the real world, that's where it counts. One percent of the little are small. I ask the minister again, Has she fought for it within the government, and didn't the elderly and the poor get backtraced increases from the same time as others? Or is there no one in the government fighting for these groups? I ask the minister how to interpret that eight of the ten advisers did not show up in the votes and that the minister of social security did not come to say no to the elderly and desperate ones but had their general members hanged on social media with names and photos about those who were evil and said no. Is it because the minister didn't want to come and say no? [[Up front.]] Is the Minister to fight for it, and I hope so, that this shall be changed between 2 and 3. ... awrong.? Is there any hope, proper minister, that the government will see in this and meet the reasonable requirement that these groups be treated as well as others? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u36	A respectable president. I'm gonna repeat what I said because it seems like it is. A senator did not understand what I said about what is involved in the increase in our suggestions in the greater part. This increase will take into account the reevaluation of Iceland's Economic Standards in November of the development of a pay grade that will result in a loss of pay. There is an increase in the average population in both the current year and the next year. I know why. A senator should be able to understand. This means that the average increase in pay for the year 2015 above 3% improvement in social security at the beginning of this year is included in the increase in 2016 budget. The priorities of this government are also made clear in the budget. When we made that claim, we stressed the need to improve. Farmers will rise by 14.2 billion on January 1, 2016. This number contains 3.9 billion which are retrospectively increased due to annual pay development. This is added to the 4.3 billion experienced by older ones and poorers in January 2014 but not others. We will then continue, as with all social groups in the community, to improve the terms of these groups. [[The president calls.]] That's what we've done, we've shown it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u37	Mr. President. I don't think there's anyone else asking. Minister of Social Affairs, hoping she'll see she's around. Those were tragic answers, in fact, worse than listening to financial ministers themselves treat their mother. I think the highest. The government has to start looking for a right count and point it right into things. What you're talking about in the Social Security Act should be taken up according to the 69rd paragraph. ...is not household support or anything like that under social assistance laws, that is the basic financial value of old age and disability, that is insurance insurance according to 22 p.m. And according to the 63rd paragraph, there are payments for the children. The government is simply trying to fool people by entering the discussion on this matter of raising things that are under other laws. The economy yesterday published an increase in the index of pay for the 3 quarter of this year, and it is 7.9% compared to the third quarter of 2014. Between the quarter of the year, the increase is 3.5%, and the remainder of the index number is in the fourth quarter of the contract of the rural community, the decision of the Council of Elders, and more. It is clear, therefore, that the elevations in 2014 of 3.6% and again of this year's beginning to 3% are so far different from having returned the same increases as others have experienced that it takes almost a 9.7% rise next year to get back to zero if this is taken alone and considered. This kind of mix-up of billions of dollars that don't look at the increase in the system, the increase in the number of sensibilities and the biofuels and these things, or percentage shit doesn't change the reality of this case. The government and her team are leaving this one group behind - this one group. He's not supposed to get any compensation this year. This is reality. Perhaps it is best, then, to play similar gray things with students in the country. It's a tragic performance, the highest. Minister of Social Affairs. Here's your chance to do better. [[The president calls.]] At least tell us that you would have liked this to be different.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u38	A respectable president. It's important here to increase the level of money you can buy. It is useful to the entire community, especially to those who have mentioned it. I don't know. Then, in what he and his associates were doing, the government was put first, and this government began to reduce the number of losses that were tolerated in the days of the former government. As early as the summer of 2013, the rule was removed that pension fund was increased, interaction and agreements for social security and pension funds were extended, the decrease in income insurance rates was reduced to 38.35% on January 1, 2014. That's how we've taken back the impairments. A senator stood as the then minister of finance in the former government. That means compensation is 7.4 billion. ... higherayear than else would be. Then, as mentioned in the previous year, my answer to what? paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar, benefits will rise by 14.2 billion on January 1, 2016, an increase of 9.7%. And as shown in that answer, because it is repeated here, there is an increase of 3.9 billion due to salary development in the year. At the top of that, 4.3 billion were received by the elderly and the poor in January 2014, but not by others. Here our emphasis is on improving the quality of these groups. We will continue to do so. The words are not empty, as you can see in these numbers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u39	Mr. President. The declines that were attacked in the middle of 2009, which were, of course, painful but were simply because they were seen in the reality that no area of national farming or state performance could be completely excluded, were implemented so that they were primarily carried out by the high income-rich elderly and microenergy pensioners, who were in the form of higher proportions, and thus the decline that had developed 2007 returned to their previous look temporarily to the end of 2013. It would have fallen apart without any interference by that government anyway because it was temporarily legalized. The basics, however, were in full importance. This controversy is about them. This debate is about those who have nothing else or who rely primarily on the insurance system and have no other income. They still lie unsettled in a garden in the time of that government. When collective agreements were made in the middle of 2011, which are very comparable to the conditions we face this year, they were fully returned to the elderly and microenergy donor at the same time, and even 50 of you. K. one payment according to a collective agreement paid for the elderly and the micro-energy pensioner, so that a full increase is consistent with the increase in the lowest salary, not just the average wage number, was returned in that direction. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That is the closest comparison to what the previous government did in these matters. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] And now she is not to be exemplary in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u40	A respectable president. Thank you. Again, for the explanation of the evidence for improving the progress of disability and pensioners. But I repeat what I said; we will continue to improve the terms of these groups as we have been doing. I want to take advantage of this opportunity to remind me of other actions found in the budget bill, which is just about to turn to the less inclined ones. We have proposals to make significant adjustments in housing support, but it is observed in Haust's study that renters are much more likely to be below a low limit than landlords. True, it has improved in the history of this government, i.e. decrease in the proportion of An eagle that lives alone in a new housing system will receive about 9 of you. K. More than in the current system, tax free. Then it is estimated that rent - support funding will be increased by 2 billion per year in two steps, if the bill is legal. We expect $1.1 billion. In 2016 there was an increase in housing improvements. And I'd also like to use this opportunity to remind you of the new social rental system that you can read about in the budget bill. It is intended to reduce tenant tenants, the least of those in the hands, will pay no more than 201⁄225% of their earnings for housing costs, or, based on the figures we've been discussing here, about 50 to 560 you have. K. in a month on rent. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It is expected that 1.5 billion will be produced for that purpose.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u41	President. In recent decades, huge advances in technology have been made, among other things, since organs can grow and be used for human and other transplantations. As a result, meat can also be cultivated, and meat can be produced for human consumption. The consequences of this are remarkable. This, for example, has consequences about fishing because we don't have to catch fish, we just do it if we want to, as a hobby. We don't have to raise animals for human consumption. We just need to grow muscles. The side effects of this are enormously lower energy and breeding ground to make the meat. This is much less about germs, since the meat is cultivated in a protected environment. This effect of carbon dioxide, e.g. ... fortheCennialService Summit in Paris, it's huge. My request is actually about this. What are we now doing to consider the changes this will bring about in our economic and global economy? Scientists assume that this technology will become competitive in its present production within ten years.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u42	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator of this interesting inquiry. I think I must answer by saying that there is no plan or work to examine this vision of the senator. I have to say just as it is for me personally, I'm not particularly impressed that we're beginning to grow our food in a lab. I hope there'll be some time. However, there are many ways to reduce pollution in agriculture and climate. People around the world are paying attention to such ways. There are several of these things in a country that is of great interest in the government's application program. For the vision I remember seeing in a movie by Woody Allen, where they took one tablet as the food supply of that day, it may well be a long time before. I really hope to say it's a long time before all our nutritions are to be produced in labs. I have sensed this interest among the public in Iceland and, indeed, in many parts of the Western world and other places, that what we want most is that food is healthy, safe. I must admit that the vision of food being produced and even put in pill form or powder in laboratorys does not inspire the sense of security that the general public has on that subject, that individual corporations begin to control all the world's food production. I believe that fishing on wild fish is more likely to be a safe way to obtain protein, and I want to watch the family union in Iceland that is about to grow and make wholesome food. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u43	President. This is not a question of some pills or powder. It's a muscle, it's a disposition. This is really no different than what comes from the beast. You can control the amount of fat and everything. This has a profound wholesome effect because, as mentioned earlier, the use of antibiotics disappears. We do not have to pump antibiotics in industrialized animals around the world. We do little or nothing here in Iceland, but still. This results in the removal of the vegetation plant, which is just a large factory in which the flunosaurs disappear. In medical science, today we are deeply concerned that we have no antibiotics to deal with the next generation of flu. I repeat, this isn't a pill or a powder. [[The president calls.]] It is a muscle placed on a frying pan and roasted and eaten like a meat that comes directly from the animal. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u44	A respectable president. I reiterate that I believe now that the general opinion is that people would like to know the origin of the products they receive. Now for some time, it may well be that the future changes and the vision of the senator's future, I think it is most important to know that the breeding of animals is as humane as possible. We can testify that in Iceland, because the senator mentioned it, the use of antibiotics is very low and certainly not for the purposes of in some areas, to be growing, or to increase the production and prevent the disease of animals through heating. It's not done in Iceland. It's never been allowed. To be honest with you, the situation in Iceland is this: I wonder if we are in a very different place than the Norwegians. These two countries are probably far - off in the world, and they have been identified in comparison with other European countries. Therefore, there is concern that what is being brought to the country should come from countries where antibiotics are used in large quantities. [[The president calls.]] It is also true that nature will always have its own ways, bacteria, and viruses. [[The president calls.]] This will not change if we start cultivating food in laboratorys, since animals will hopefully remain in the world. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u45	A respectable president. On April 15 of the past, the president of the European Committee for Medicinal Products wrote a letter entitled "Presidential Ministers of Health, " which included the heading" Persuaded by authorised medication, a limit to the number of patients. This letter calls attention to the new layer of work based on the order of a minister to the traders, as the letter says, by permission of the president: A prescription for several new medicinal products is limited to a certain number of patients. They are now being fully used for the arthritis medicine Benlysta, the ophthalmic preparations Ozurdex and Eylea, and the chemotherapeutic Jevtana and Kadcyla, and new patients in need of these medicinal products. This was the situation on April 15, when the chairman of the Committee called attention to the minister's office and further said: ▪ The Committee considers that the patient's number limit of medication will be canceled and wishes for a minister to take the initiative to solve this issue immediately. Shortly thereafter, the emissary of the Generals also saw reason to write a letter to the health minister on the same matter and to comment on the Ministry's procedure on this matter. It reminds the minister that he has a management and surveillance obligation and should have observed that the limitations there were to be corrected. Now I'm asking the highest. HCPs in view of these recommendations by the agency and the National Hospital Administration Committee, whether and in what way a minister has or plans to change the procedure he has implemented regarding the payment warrants of the prescribing committee. I'm going to the top. Minister to eliminate this patient's parvote?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u46	A respectable president. This matter was discussed at the request. The head of the welfare committee yesterday, where the chairman of the Committee for Medicinal Products, the chairman of the Committee for Medicinal Products, and the State Drug Administration came into play. It made the arrangement clear to the committee. According to my information, all three of the directors have informed the committee that there were no prescriptions in drug use. Rather, they were employed on the basis of estimates made by our leading members in the National Hospital, the Akureyri Hospital, the Medical Insurance of Iceland, and the Committee of Medicine, and planned to process the financial resources established by the General Assembly on these topics. As we have seen, the General government is very secure according to the constitution. Advertisers, or executives, are forbidden to pay any amount of money from a government fund that is different from that found in financial or financial funds. I intend to work according to the arrangement and to respect it as long as it is possible. I don't think there's any reason to break up the legal process in our code and the principle on these matters. In fact, they were last revised in 2012, and according to that law, success has been achieved. The principle is that our weakest people are put in front of the diseases their drugs are intended to treat. [[The president calls.]] All I know is that this cooperation between the Committee of Drug Services, the Hospital Drug Administration Committee, has been successful and smooth until now. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u47	A respectable president. It's not good when it's the highest. Ministers are busily busily busily to the fore. It is the patient's diet against the population and the number of drug restrictions applied depends on instructions coming from the Minister himself. [[That's wrong.]] [[Up front.]] [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. President. Today, we read in our magazines that there are 150 waiting for a heart operation. [[Up front.]] The hospital has 60 heart operations, 150 waiting. What is that other than the patient's parvoti? That's exactly the same thing that's being done in drug recovery as I have a letter that includes the minister's orders, I can read it here under the President's meeting board if you wish. Of course, it is unacceptable in a civilized society to deny patients the best course of chemotherapy and to use the mass limits because we here discuss life - saving medicines, drugs that prevent blind people and can help them to fight cancer. [[The president calls.]] That is unacceptable because we are to be one nation in one country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u48	A respectable president. Well, I can still say that, though. A senator swears it, and likes the person sitting here at the dealership, that store does not hear the rule I'm working on. I reiterate what was said at a meeting, and I inform the officials of our fine people on a drug trade commission, the Drug Administration Committee, that there are no quotas in these materials in Icelandic health care. [[Up front.]] And there's a complete clientele in all the law and order, which I expect to do. A senator has learned that the intervention of the minister is, fortunately, none of these matters. It is under law that the decisions made by the State Department of Medicinal Products are not charged with ministers. [[Up front.]] It is primarily worth it and the number of patients who decide how to handle this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u49	...gives instructions yourself.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u50	A respectable president. Here are discussions and debates that are really annually assured when the budget is taken over at the council and that on account of them, there is nothing unnatural. The emphasis on classes and individuals differs when it comes to changing the state's income and success is handled, according to individual characteristics. There is something less discussed in this area when there is a question about the budget and how we should earn the money that is changing. It has caused controversy in the council as well. When government policies are criticized, what means should be used to achieve them relatively inexpensive solutions? In fact, some form of tax increase is best mentioned. There are generally left-class solutions when it comes to increasing the cake that it should occur with tax increases on individuals and on the job. The emphasis on the present government has been on other factors. It is primarily about how we can increase the value of society, how we can expand the cookie, how we can expand our job life, and strengthen its access so that more opportunities arise in society and more valuable creations. Of course, there is much anxiety for us, who are interested in the field, especially in the fact that statistics show less success in our general business life than they are in the countries we compare with. There is up to 20% less success in Icelandic commercial living than in the general countries we compare with. This must be something we must take to heart. This must be the basis for how we succeed in the future as we watch that health issues to produce them will be predicted from 1985 to be 7.1% of GDP up to 14% after 206.525 years. At the same time, working hands will also reduce behind each older citizen. Today, we have five at the labour market behind each older citizen, two or three years from now. It is obvious that in the future budgets, we will be drawn up if we do not respond to ways in which we are going to promote wealth and achieve our careers. We can link this up, a respectable president, with the discussion of regional development that is of great importance to us and is, of course, part of the budget, as is most of the matters we discuss at the council. How will we create built - up unity? How are we going to ensure that the land will be scattered and a powerful society that can exist there? In modern times, predominantly fishing has been seen. The changes in the fishing system have been described as the result of the global damage to the fishing system. Surely that can be true. The goal that was set out in our time when we went on that journey was to guide our more rational use of the sea resources. This was predictable in the targets set, both in the sentence of the cry code system and in the implementation of the exogenous hall set at the time by the government, the forward category, the Democratic Coalition, and the Democratic Party that is not often recognized by its claims. This was one of the progressive steps in Icelandic fishing roads and the Icelandic fishing system. Clearly, this had the goal that if they did not respond, they could be accompanied by a certain local disorder. We now see that there are really only two jobs in the country, certainly very important and powerful, marine, and energy - related industry, which meet the challenge of success. We will see that these articles will bring about technological developments in the coming years. Today, there is a great revolution in fish farming, a revolution that is compared to that of the flash machine. This revolution involves certain surgical techniques that will predict the reduction in the land's fish industry. Some of today's small, medium-sized fish industry will fall off. Evolution will continue. The seabed will not be the foundation of human view. Of course, we must act. We must look to the future with regard to these challenges. We will not do so without creating other opportunities for the country while increasing in tourism. Then we create other basic work opportunities, other emphasis on solidity. We can illustrate such points. In the West, fish farms and salmon farms are heading for a foundation for structure and structure. We all have the hope that this will become a form of the West. We watch back at Húsavík, a source of energy - related industry. Energy - related industry has proved to be a major fixture where it exists. It creates well paid and stable jobs for a long time. We have over half a century experience with energy efficient industry, very good experience in this regard, good conduct, well paid jobs, and little employees. Much of the most productive work can be created around the industry. We must have to look to it in the future and be ready for our priorities to lie there, that we look to the country primarily when we provide an increased investment in Icelandic commercial life. Of course, this requires great effort. We need to get into the electrical distribution system, and we need to produce more power. We need to be ready to contribute more to the community in which it contributes to attracting companies to and encouraging them to become the most widely distributed areas of life. Thus, we actually create solidity alongside other industry in the area. In agriculture, which has been the most developed area around them, the trend will be predictable in the same way. We'll see a few people in Iceland, and we'll see them grow. It is natural and inevitable if we are going to promote the competitiveness of the Icelandic agricultural world. Thus, this will reduce the urbanity of agriculture in recent years and decades. When this is in relation to the budget and how the minority members of the council have now spoken about how to finance further government expenses, you must wonder how serious such a lawsuit can be. The present government is criticized for having canceled certain taxes, such as wealth taxes and energy taxes. It is said that fishing costs have been dropped and that there may be more money to take from them, everything related to employment and individuals. Other tax returns are even criticized. How much can you do about this presentation, a respectable president? For example, when the wealth tax was under discussion or the energy tax, did these groups speak in this way before elections? Aren't we following the dates set by those then existing government groups? They were temporary taxes. It is not too credible to come back now and say: " This is quite another way, and we would certainly have extended it. There is no reference to calming down these groups through the years, a respectable president, in these respects. At any given time, the wind is installed and seen from the source of the blue and the direction slightly noticed. An error in speaking is also a characteristic of the language taking place on their part. In this regard, for example, we can discuss only the fishing fees spoken of by several members of the government sidelines that have dropped dramatically and mention certain billions of them. Hv. paritaprevir Björn Valur Gíslason left here very much. Hv. paritaprevir Þorvarðardóttir Þordóttir noted that the fishing cost was about 13 billion. Björn Valur, in a similar direction, said that today they have dropped 33/4 billion a year. A brief look at the figures we receive from Fish Room reveals that 2012 was collected at 9.8 billion, 2013, the year that this government began, the number was 9.8 billion, the year after, 2014, was close to 8.2 billion, and the plan for this year was 8.7 billion. This is a bit different, but not money, a respectable president, when the facts are addressed. People here accuse themselves of the present government party reduction of hunting costs. We would say, "We're going to raise it a lot more, " that was to increase it a lot more. However, for the four years that were being discussed by the then rulers of this important matter, it was as effective as it was. It seemed that in a relatively short period of time, they could resolve this issue and bring up a new fishing system with solutions where small and medium-sized productions would not be weighed down, the diversity would be maintained in Icelandic seas, while hunting costs would increase to even 20 billion plus. That's what they thought they could do, but nothing happened. Even what? paritaprevir J. Sigfússon, then secretary of finance, said a few weeks before being succeeded as a marine emissary that he would take him a few weeks to sort it out and finish his business after he arrived at the Sea Department. He did not finish them in the less than two years he was in that position. I think it's very important in this matter, as in the rest of a respectable president, that we stick to the facts. It has been noted here in the discussion that because the oil costs have dropped so much, people can now add more spells to the Icelandic seabed. It was claimed here by reason. paritaprevir A few days ago, Páll Árnason's Árni in his discussion of this matter were to save about 10 billion a year because of the low price of oil - 10 billion a year was claimed. There has been no much studio or backwork, more than anything that comes from these categories. This is not a deep argument because a reduction in the time given is about 18%, i.e. The reduction, as mentioned, is 3.1 billion, not 10 billion, for the total cost of Iceland's Habitat in 2013. It was evident that we were only allowed to raise the fishing costs by 10 billion now, the design would have had a table for a carrying. People are being told this and the council, but when the numbers are addressed, the reduction is about 3.1 billion of 17. Then people can wonder if we should determine the price of fishing at any given time. I think it's important, more dignified President, that these facts are listed when we review this case to tie in the limits of the language presented here. One down. A member of the Union and others of minorities spoke of the financial management of the left classes during the last term as the basis for what we are reaping today. Then let us look at the rearview mirror and see what the situation would be if the power had not been removed from the highest position. Government in the last term. [[Up front.]] Let's just consider what the situation would be here if the Swiss Convention had been met by the government leaders at the beginning of the summer of 2009, and would like to go through that assembly, and had the support of all the members of the United States and many members of the Parliaments of the Left Green. It was almost to drive the case through under cover of night. We have reason to review this now because at this critical point we would need to consider the first cities of that contract with financial contributions. [[The point is, why?]] - The Swiss deal called on Icesave. Next year, the first payment was due. What would be our situation if we were to work here on the budget with that assignment in front of us? Then we look at the papers that came from the government at the time, the papers that came from the financier's budget. There's a reason to remember it up to June 3, that I think, asked the current highest. Prime Minister of current finance minister, Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, would it be to sign a contract in the next few days and the highest? The secretary of finance felt that it was not, that all of this would be discussed much better, that there was an exploratory discussion, as it was said, but all of this would be discussed with the council before further discussions would be held. On June 5, the contract was signed by the government, two days later. So the first payments under that contract were due next year. It is vital to consider, if necessary, what would be our position in the budget? paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon and the highest. The prime minister of that time, Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, would have set his own way through. It would have meant that we were facing the need to pay 36 billion next year, 25 billion in payments, and 11 billion in interest. Then there would be six years where we generally paid for a building of one land hospital a year. [[Up front.]] - The former secretary of finance says it's absurd, but it's just unpacked from his own bill that he submitted in his own time. [[Up front.]] This was an assessment of the finance Department. The 2017 payments would have been 69.3 billion with interest, 2018 66.5 billion, 2019 63.8 billion, 2020 61 billion, 2021 58.3 billion, and this ended 2024 with 26.4 billion dollars. A payment. Despite efforts to assess the potential impact on the expenses of the Kingdom fund over the coming years, there was considerable uncertainty in this agreement. This was an assessment of the Ministry of Financial Affairs: ▪ If the bill remains unchanged, it can be assumed by law on the basis of the above grounds that government funds could be made in the range of 60,470 billion dollars. Annually between 2017 and 2020, half of the total in 2016 and 2024.◯ It's in this bill. There is reason to review this with budgeting now what was said at that time. I'm going to quote in Svavar Gestsson, who said it was a good result, and we got the economy under cover for seven years in the midst of the Depression, we needed it. Then we could get some strength. If we were to receive a more favorable loan somewhere, we could pay it up and that would be great. What did he say? Ásgeirsdóttir This would be the best possible result the Icelanders could expect in this case. The choir continued, the lead singer, Svavar Gestsson, saying that, of course, it was always possible to argue whether what the British did to land it was enough, if it had been possible to get further. He said it was the food they took, especially him and Indriði, but it was the reality that they were there on an end. The secretary of business who was attended by the college community at the time and is able to still teach in the college community without incident... [[Mr President, is that the way to talk about people in society?]] He was a businessman in those years. [[Up front.]] I'm quoting his statement as secretary of business. [[The point is, what did you expect?]] - I'm just quoting what was written and said in those years.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u51	No,...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u52	- I'm not doing... - Yes, I have serious doubts that men who had such food at this time have something to teach at college. [[...at the university.]] It's just that, a respectable president, I believe the university community needs to look at itself when it comes to how things were being done at that time. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u53	The president begs to observe his words.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u54	I will continue to quote those comments. It is only hope, a respectable president, to the highest. A former financial minister is totally overcrowding what I am reading because the truth, of course, becomes the most angry of all when he is reminded of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u55	I'm talking about your slander about non-contracted men who can't defend themselves here and... weekend.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u56	- That's not slander, is it? paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, quoting the words.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u57	You're not.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u58	- I'm sure I am, and I'm going to continue it for your amusement. In an interview on St. 2, Gylfi Magnússon of June 26, 2009 said that if the contract was canceled, he could not think of it; we would have, in effect, isolated ourselves from the rest of the world and returned to some kind of Cuba level. We'd be Cuba of the North. Hv. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's rock mask on June 29, 2009, at a local civil meeting, said that an agreement was the best option in the situation, and that he believed that all cases would be more and less lost if this fell. So I'm witnessing to another man who's been wanting to do something about the whole case, the present editor of the Morning Journal, Oddsson Odddson. He said in an interview that Jóhanna and Steingrímur's comments that Icelanders are committed to the British and Dutch in the Icesave case had suffered a devastating injury to the people of the country. At the same time, he stated that the British and the Dutch should seek out the Icelanders by taking the court route and saying: "We want to pay our debts, but we want to decide that we are under law to pay. I think it would be a good idea to review this now, a respectable president, because this milestone was in our arms for the next year if those class of the most critical of the current financial regimes and, for the sake of keeping the affairs of the State had reached its end. They must ask themselves, " Can such people be trusted to hold their money for the future? ' We can relate all of this to what our position would be if we were to improve the interest of older citizens and disability, reduce the expenses of our families in the country, reduce taxes, drop taxes, lower customs, help people reduce housing loans, promote employment life, increase investments, or go to new hospitals. It is possible to relate this with the discussion that we are facing today as to what our situation is. It is normal and right, a respectable president, that we do so at this juncture. It is important that this discussion be part of the discussion as we discuss our situation today, since the current administrative groups rejected this way. It was because of them, and it is not to be overlooked the role of certain members of the then governing body who, of course, played a key role in the time when the matter was being handled through the council that the agreement that our supporters, the British and the Dutch, could not accept. They were members of the council, such as Daðason Ejadsson, the daughter of Lilja Mósesdóttir, the son of Jónasson, and others, the Guðfríður - fearing daughter of Lilja Grétarsdóttir. If it wasn't for these people and the government of that time, it would be impossible to say where we were today, impossible to say if the situation had developed that the President of Iceland had taken hold of this situation at the time, if not before this struggle, and so much else that followed. When the matter was for a discussion between Christmas and New Year, a celebration of the day before New Year's Day was the day's New Year's Day. We members of the Independence Party wanted it to be broadcast. Then a petition to the president about a challenge not to confirm the law was launched, and this collection of signatures did not take up the flight until this live television broadcast on the day before New Year's Day. Who would have thought that the nation would be glued to television the day before New Year's Day to observe a vote at the Council? So historical was this. Then the collection of signatures, the collection of signatures that gave the president a pretext to base his decision on. In many ways, I don't think it's acceptable, a respectable president, a superior, unfair speaker. If the facts continue, any who would like to consider the importance of this government's welfare. Can we do better? Yeah, I think that's a situation. Do we want to do better? Yeah, sure. Are we on that road? No one can point out anything else. Some people want us to take the steps bigger and faster than we are on this road. Is it being done on the scene of the government today that we can make the best of our means available to those most in need? Yes, that work is going on; it has come quite far, with all classes involved. Are we thus trying to achieve such a far - reaching reconciliation and a better welfare system for the future? Yeah, we're on that road. Parkings to older citizens and disability have never increased so much. There's been an amnesty. It has actually taken the work of the last government in its last terms and has turned them back. It's been over here. I need, a respectable president, so don't spend a lot of time on it. It's been stated that pension fund doesn't impair the basic pensions of old and micro-estate pensioners, and that there's been an increase in the payoffs. There is evidence of an absolute improvement of 17.1% during this period as prices increase by 7.1%. The law is about to be done in this country. The government situation has not answered whether she wants to change them by her laws now. It's about to go to the law on how we're gonna raise compensation. It would be most reasonable for a person to make some legal adjustments because it is quite clear that the compensation we are sharing with most in society is never connected with raises. You can criticize the agreements and dress code and advice or what it all is called, but it can never be directly linked to collective agreements. What agreements should we tie up? What dates? To doctors or to any other group? Of course, it's just a political surface. It actually describes a great issue of the present minority. When it comes to the discussion here, so that I can do it only at the end of the meeting time and that sort of thing, it's completely impossible. We all see it, but we haven't had any luck to deal with it. It's totally impossible an arrangement the Congress offers us, but we're not people to change it. We haven't dealt with it, sit down together, and deal with it. Rather, we've been in some cockfight about how long we're going to talk about it and how long we're supposed to stay until night, etc. It's all right to stay here until night and night, if necessary, for some day, but the ball is on both sides of the table, also at the front of the board. How long do you want? It was asked from the General's symposium last night. How long do you need? How long do you want? The time we needed it was the answer. Is that a grammatical answer? What, then, is the answer to those who are planning to do the Senate work? They must then use all the time they possibly can make. They have no other answer, so much less is the responsibility of the less part of the council. Tell us if you need two days or three days and how you want to conduct the discussion in that time! Then I can't see that this is going to be a problem. It was reminded of here of the highest. Just a few years ago, a president of the United States who was present at the council before the demented ball set out - perhaps around a change in the assembly, but the collapse has certainly made its mark - when the 2nd century arrived. About the budget, it took 12 in ◯15 hours. Perhaps there has been more mutual respect, a respectable president, but it is today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u59	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson is now a member of a group of senators who are no longer on evidence in his armory but the Icesave. I don't get very excited about what's in my head with that case, but on the other hand, I can better answer for it. But I have to say that it hurts me to say that when the names of the gentlemen outside society have to be noted, without any comment on it, the senator should weigh their professional honors, their names, whether they are university teachers, reputable scholars, or former members of the council and ministers. This, of course, is a minor quality. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son that he behaves like this in the shelter of a council weekend. This has always been the case in the past at a council of about the worst that any senators do, i.e. to accuse or address people who are not here to carry a hand for their heads and do so under the shelter of a council weekend. Hv. A senator named the Icesave case and gave a dark picture of what lay ahead for Iceland if the original agreements had been agreed. The reality is that on either side of the New Year's Day, Icesave's senior bank of the U.S.A. will eventually have the last reserve to pay up to the full head seat of Icesave. That's 211 billion bucks. and has become more or less abducted in foreign currency. The deposit fund of depositors and investments made up for the British and the Dutch and paid them over 20 billion dollars. this fall, up to the cost of business and interest. Thus, the cost, even though it was the initial Icesave agreement, was broken by what was certainly at the time drawn up that it might become, is clearly stated to be a very careful picture of what the farm's possessions would produce. They did not want to enhance their beauty and show how this could possibly be compared to what already lay ahead for valuable possessions in the nest. At the same time, it has been stated that hopefully the Old Lands Bank would pay Icesave completely, and he has, or he is about to do. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So the old Grýla is long dead if you look at the facts in the case, but it's still suitable for small people here to use it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u60	A respectable president. It is appropriate for a ruler to speak to lowly ones in a way that is convenient. A senator did, but this is his habit, and you don't fuck with it. I just don't know anything about that, a respectable president, that I've been calling men names and talking in the back of the names of a gentleman like a boy. A senator expressed it. I was merely quoting words uttered at the time, what those individuals said. It may be that playing out better than watching the Icesave quarrel, yes, fortunately it did. It's not why. paritaprevir Thanks to J. Sigfússon, who was ready at the time, along with his followers from the United States and left green outside the sea. The senators I listed earlier who ran around writing up what I was going through, and this could have been the situation. Since playing for a few reasons better, it has just been said that doing the way the old Grýla died in the European Court at the end. Of course, there are many other things to remember, a respectable president, but I'm not going to do it with this discussion of the budget. But I felt that it was vital that we review this because the turning point is that if things had all worked out, they would have gone their way. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's rock mask suggested back then, we're dealing with budgets today in a very different way, and when they're being accused of hazy and poor financial management under the present circumstances, I feel thrown out of a glass house in that material. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u61	Mr. President. I've got them all about what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson here, in the chamber I like and I think he needs, and if ever. The president thinks it's too far gone, so he makes comments there. We're here to answer for ourselves, that's the difference between conversation here in the hall, and in this way dedicate the names of individuals outside the council. A senator certainly did, and let us read in a copy of his speech, questioning that a teacher at the University of Iceland was qualified for this. And since he named a former general and ambassador and minister. Taking on the solution to the Icesave case, Iceland became expensive. They delayed the progress of the cohesion with the International Remuneration Fund by nine to twelve months. They delayed the development of economic restoration in many ways in Iceland that could have been sooner. There is an unrecoverable account that would make it clear how much better we would be if economic restoration had begun earlier, for example, in 2010, it had become considerably better because we had not been trapped. Iceland didn't have a lot of options. That was the conclusion of the earlier government of Geir H. Haardes. Hence, she suggested that agreements be made with the British and the Dutch on Icesave. It was the conclusion of the bank manager and secretary of finance when they signed it at the World Bank Pension Fund in November 2008 that they completed the Icesave case with contracts, and it finally became our conclusion when we faced the reality that faced Iceland in the spring of 2009. It had to be attached to a screw, and it had to come out so that the economic restoration of the land could survive. Well - known people were optimistic about the outcome of the case in the spring of 2009 that we waited for the estate of the old Bank to pay up the crown, and the rest would be more manageable. This has been the case, and we should rejoice over it. Nothing has finally worked out for the EFTA Court or elsewhere, but simply that the way it was chosen in 2009 was successful, waiting for the bank's property to make the account and protect and keep the Icelandic economy under cover. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u62	A respectable president. With the permission of the president, I'd like to continue to quote a paper, but there's still an interview in the business magazine where the presidents say I sometimes said it so I know something about a country I want to see I look like, but I don't see a country yet. I'm starting to see the mambos, and that's why I know that land is ahead. It was just the spirit of it. Of course, the decision made in the government of Geir H. Haardes at the time to go on the bargaining process was based on the fact that in those contracts, they were called Brussels. There is no way to say that the contracts that were then made and put on the table, and to drive through a council almost under the cover of the night, would have any rules to guide our efforts to become the basis for an agreement with our clients.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u63	A respectable president. I came here to listen to a talk. A senator on the budget bill for 2016 I was quite surprised to hear what happened. A senator spends a lot of time talking about the balance of the previous government and begins to review Icesave case. I wondered if the Independence Party did not need any treatment, some psychological help to recover from not sitting here for one terms. Are they completely trapped in the past and unable to look to the future? That's exactly how I feel about this budget bill. There's no future in it. Maybe we'd also need a re-education in the Icesave case, because I've at least read the General's study report, and I don't understand what it's like. Senator. I'm worried about this. It must be harmful when the greater part and government are completely trapped in the past, apparently denying the collapse of this place. Perhaps that is why little comes from this blessed condition. Government. They do not realize that they are back in power, and their responsibility is theirs, being trapped in the past. It's amazing. I think they should start thinking about the future and focus on it, I think it would be better for the nation. I'd like to ask you what. A senator on the budget bill. That's not much left over, it's about 103/411 billion leftovers of 700 billion. Counts 'em out. Senator that there's adequate access to business, we're talking less than 2 %? In view of the well - being of others, would it not have been more responsible to have more money to gain?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u64	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Yet, I lean toward it. A senator has not listened much to the first part of my speech or perhaps even to the larger portion of my talk, which was about the value of the budget to which we are going to increase our income, how we can expand the cookie that is changing, how I linked this development and structure, what the budget would have to do with it. I approach the financial debate that way. It was just in the second part of my speech that I came into the Icesave case for granted. I introduced the taxation that we've been criticized for, or were accused of lowering, and from previous taxation, as in hunting costs. I studied the evidence in it and how I can see that we need to develop our jobs and our high value and competitiveness in the workplace in order to expand the cookie. Is there 10 billion leftovers? A financial minister's policy to go to a baseless budget immediately is the most important thing to us in all of this and has created the basis for stability. As soon as he succeeded, this trend was reversed before the New Year's Eve. I believe that under the circumstances in our community today, we are right not to have any more effort, although, of course, it would be wish we could put more away and lower the debt, that would be a great goal. State funds, however, go very down as a proportion of GDP as the production is increasing, the material is growing in the community, and better if possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u65	A respectable president. I want to thank you. The senator's answer. I just want to talk about the work done with the budget, mainly the changes I've made in the smaller parts. There we will see a wide range of projects that have been in museum teams and that are more likely to live under a parish program. That's what they call a local bill and we're gonna do it. A senator agrees to increase the needs of the country's settlements, but I don't like the methodology. Hv. A senator, of course, knows a national application program, which has been a delight, across groups in rural society, and I find it really amazing when we are able to take on a project that has a cross - political reconciliation. I don't see any difference between where people stand. However, the government has cut down to the parish plan and started immediately in the budget of 2014. I would have liked to see the projects being given out to the country's settlements go through an application plan because the local people are making decisions. I'd like to ask you what. A senator on this subject and whether he agrees with me that it's better that the money is moved out to those who have the power in it instead of sitting in a greater part of the legal committee and prodding it here and there. I can say that many projects there are very good, but I don't think the process is professional or practical, and it doesn't have any administrative laws. I would've liked to see more money on the parish schedule and ask him why. A senator would agree that he would not agree with what was done during his last term in a transpirotian period, to bring in a group to the council. Then maybe I'm talking more about the Ministry of Education and Culture. This is now being accepted back into a budget board, that is, the old process.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u66	A respectable president. I can agree with that with what. A senator said that there was a general national parapolitan agreement across the country by means of a church plan. That was the case, and to that end, I believe that there is good reason to take a closer look at that scene. It was a pleasure to observe it at where I could. I'd like to give a special witness in the South, since I did a good study. The corners in between these big votes met together to see where the need was. They were willing to sacrifice themselves in order to set priorities in it, and this became a better use for the sheep. I think it might generally be richer in what we're looking at in such donations, because it will also be an incentive for the rural communities to unite to contribute themselves to the completion of the project. In this way, contributions from the General body can be an incentive in this regard. When I arrived at the council in 2007, if we could put it that way, we had to change it. Of course, we didn't know that we were sitting in a local fishing and agricultural committee with some 6 million, if I remember correctly, over 50,370 visitors were meeting the Committee and men were talking about 500 thousand and 300 thousand and 800 thousand. It had to be changed. In fact, I think the council needs to say something like this because whatever it is to say, we should assume that members of the council are in a good relationship with their districts far and wide that it is far beyond what the Ministry, each in its own area, may be. [[The president calls.]] I think it should be that we're going to be able to handle these matters, but not in the way it was, it was a very old-fashioned arrangement, and we'd have to improve it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u67	A respectable president. I'd like to start this talk by discussing the discussion and the attendance at the Assembly Hall yesterday for a discussion on the budget. So so far, we've all known that the budget is a large picture of what's been doing at any given time. This is really the large policy document for every government. It includes more than all aspects of life. This is followed by action and capitalism. There has been a lot of work to do, so much so much so that the current administrative part needed two more weeks to discuss these matters on the committee. I'm not gonna put out on it. If people needed that time, it's only fine if they think they're doing good work. But when the matter comes here at the council Hall and only the members of the administrations represented here at the council have already spoken in the language of the day, we are also the robbers who are married to the council of the people out here, and we are not going to tell you how long we're going to be meeting together. The procurator of the independence party came up in a chair last night and demanded that we tell him how long we were going to speak in this case. We were just getting started. The power that identifies the government was crystalline in yesterday's discussions. No matter what it takes, critical voices should be silenced. It is to put us who are trying to serve here to the best of our ability and conscience, even to be critical, by saying that when we are going to give our first talk, we are in a sense of speech. We're discussing budget. Yesterday, the president of the council was fully involved in trying to silence members of the council for a discussion of the budget. Why are people trying to silence us in our discussion of the budget? Could this be because we are asking unpleasant questions? Could it be that we are getting into an uncomfortable situation? Another example of the silence that humans try to use is to drum up and give talks about Icesave. To us, what are these people criticizing us, do we have something to discuss with Icesave? This is not welcome. But that's how people talk and behave who are afraid of the discussion, have a terrible cause to defend, they act like that. They can't come up here and talk merely about anything, or they can stand by their decisions. Scary people. Fearful people. People who know that they are doing something that will do bad things for many and who are severely criticized in the community. These are people who are beginning to feel that their actions are reaching people, and people are starting to criticize them publicly. Consider, for example, the article KáriDo You Stefánsson? " How do people respond to it? Here comes a respected member of the community, delivering messages from within the medical system, telling us who are here what the situation is. What does the administrative body do? Is he listening? No. He steps up on Facebook and talks about being a pogulist. Puts on the popu list plunger. If you don't agree with us, you're against us. Then we'll put on the popu list's plunger that you only belong to the good people, or that you get the Icesave stamp or something that people have negative image of. We're gonna take you down. It's government policy, members of Congress. It was the stuff that crystalred yesterday. Last night was told to me out there, hasn't it always been like this? It's just once in history, there's been a debate about budgets. When was that? In the autumn of 2012, when the current administrative body, the members of the government, led by the current council president, decided to take possession of the budget. For the first time in history, it was done. No wonder they think that everyone else must do the same! This is not welcome. Last night, Presidential conduct with us generals was a disgrace. Instead of standing with us, he was fully involved in this, an expert against our being able to speak in a good way. Such conduct tells you that these people have a bad side to defend. I don't like democratic discussions because it's too uncomfortable. And then she's a little boring, and we can't go out there in the shelter of night unless we're taking foreigners out of the country, little children of long ago, we do it. It was done last night. While we were passing over that we were disturbing the progress of the government, this same government was herding foreigners on a bus and taking them off the land. These included small children who have long - suffering disease. We're so fucked up that I don't know where to start to put my arm around this. I'm just gonna talk about the foreign languages. Hv. paritaprevir Unnur Brá, the Konráðsdóttir of Consecret, gave a very fine speech yesterday and spoke of the foreign languages. I could cut myself off to most of the things she said and agree with that. There Ólöf Nordal talk about refugees and refugees, and I have been able to agree with a lot of what they have said. But then you just do something else. We are in position now that the government has decided to hide in the shelter of some kind of box made, that's just people like this and people we're going to receive, and others can eat what they want. We have adopted the United Nations Children's Covenant. We're part of the alien law ourselves, and we have the authority to look to a human spirit. When is the time to look to the human spirit? Isn't that right when we've arrived here with families that've been connected here in a social setting, a family with little children who need support? These people had planted themselves, brought a job. But we, this arrogant nation, once again put ourselves on a high horse with this arrogant government in the head of a band, and we dismissed it because it did not fit into our box, it did not fit into our own croppers. A respectable president. Changes must be made, reviewing all our attitudes and approaches. We have full sources of foreigners to allow people to stay here this way. That's what we're supposed to do. But there's obviously a need for elections to make changes, and I hope that people will remember it, voters, when it comes to the election, how this government treats people, how they treat children, sick children. What men have been trying to silence us by suing us about speech or throwing us in the face discussions about Icesave and I don't know what, is the debate over lawsuits that lead to older citizens and micropunchers. A few days ago, we offered the government a chance to accompany us on the way to meet these groups by returning them to dressbacks, i.e. Back to May 1 like any other people in this country. Everyone's been getting these dressers. In fact, we were treated further at the council, and we were brought back to March 1, so much needed to receive all of this together. Did the government rightly feel that older people and disability are the same? No. She didn't think so. You wonder why. The secretary of finance, however, was the only member of the government who came up here and reasoned why he voted against it. How Would You Answer? Yes, he believed that it was enough, that it would be enough for people who have worked and toiled and built up this country all their life and who are now advanced in years. He thought it'd be enough for 170 of you. K. Your net for survival per month or 192 you. K. net. If it's got some pension fund, it could possibly crawl up to a hundred and twenty-one miles. K. Thousands of Icelandic seniors have to live on these amounts. Is there anyone in here to tell me he can do it? No one could. These people are being treated badly, and they need to be addressed. They try to silence us as critics and here come members of the administrations and say, "Why didn't you do this during the last term? We did exactly that in the middle of 2011. By that time, it was almost 20 o'clock. K. increase in the lowest amount. Why? Because there were general pay increases in the country. This can be seen by any reasonable person who examines the numbers and what people have been receiving. There's an example. This is what we're supposed to do because we're human. We know that no one can live on 190 levels. K. It's net in a month. Everyone's said that in the last fight and recognized that 300 of you. K. If it's the minimum, it's the minimum. But no, then we're going to leave our seniors and poorer people at the 200 thousand. When that government began, I was confident that it would succeed, for all the people had blood, sweat, and tears, having put on a huge job in trying to get the government back on track, getting us over zero. They all fucked up. Everyone knew the purpose and purpose. But the first thing the government decided to do was to speed up the hunting costs, stating that a wealth tax would not be extended, much less a power tax. Where on this list were the ideals of those who had also had to accompany us, older citizens, orphans? For example, where was the health system, where was the education system? This was not what they thought would require an immediate attack on the springtime. There is still no reason to believe that it needs to be done. When men removed certain losses in the pension system we supported, what were they doing? They decided to reduce the number of jobs that were well - off and also because of the pension incomes of those who are paid from the 300 yous Pension Fund. K. or higher. Those with the lowest income were completely left behind. When we asked the welfare committee why these groups were left behind, i.e. those who live on the 1703/4,190 you've got. K. or more than 200 of you. Well, the answer was: Because of the government's protection, we don't have to do anything for them. We just have to do something for those with income of 300. K. From a pension fund or more. Leave the rest. It was policy. But did people ever come out and say that? No. But we have our policy on paper from this time, and that's where we're making it clear. There is nothing else to be said about the discussion. I hope the senators are ready to listen to us, not merely amend us as some annoying team that is constantly gnarly and critical of them. It is fine for us to have a conversation and try to reach conclusions in certain matters, as we also qualify for a council as representatives of certain groups. You can't say to us: You're a filibuster because you're talking. Icezave, so what? Don't say anything, you can't criticize us about Icesave, remember? You can't treat us like that. We're supposed to talk differently and try to get along. I didn't mean to give such a speech, since I was wearing this gear. But last night, there was nothing else. We're not gonna be silenced by this kind of perturbing. Health issues. Here's what we're saying: There's been a lot of place to go to the hospital. Hv. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson said yesterday: It's true that the director of the hospital and his superiors say it lacks 3 billion to the hospital, but if we gave him 3 billion, only the other three and the other three would be required, and where would that end? What kind of dog plow is this for people in charge of this country? To decide not to listen to the hospital's administration but to overdo it with this furrow. If she received what she says is needed to maintain the present ministry, there is a great chance that people will start asking for another 3 billion people, and there will never be enough. That's why it's best to give her as little as possible. Those were the arguments we were offered yesterday. Everyone knows that there is a need for extra money in the medical system. I also think the senators know that. You need to explain more clearly why they decide not to increase money to the health system. The budget bill they gave in this fall is 90 million. K. It's a slow drop in budget. Reduction. And then you bring some smart stuff to offset it, you know, little compensations. But that wasn't the way it was in the original bill. They are now ashamed of making adjustments, but that is not enough. This, in a way that you can do so. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson does, and looks like he's doing, putting his stamp on Kári Stefánsson as a critical government: he's just some popu list, don't listen to him, and if you say that it needs 3 billion people, it's like: Is, they don't need any 3 billion, they just come back and ask for more so that we don't listen to it. You shouldn't listen to anyone. Regarding health matters, I also have to mention that this morning an amazingly important discussion took place. paritaprevir As she drew attention to the fact that we have a health - care complaint system, an Ólína Þorvarðardóttir daughter. It is good to see how many can get into certain operations - just how many can take certain medicines - say hello to the number of people who can get a service in the health care department. [[For example: Is that correct?]] [[For example, consider: It's wrong.]] That's right. [[For example, consider: It's wrong.]] Honorable President, what. A senator has asked for an answer, she can talk when it comes to it, I'm not going to talk to her here. But that's the way it is. This morning, they recognized a health minister when he said that what he requires was money and a number of people. When you know that an operation requires an X and a certain budget, you are about to set a quota. Then there is a message from the minister himself: You must not go over this amount of money. If you get 60 dollars for the operation but 150 you have to go to surgery, the budget and the Minister are going to say, "You get 60 actions, here's a quarter for them." It's just that way. To argue that it's not a greeting is wrong. When it came to drugs, the same is true, and it was well exposed in the fall when direct decision was made that those who receive medicines to cure hepatitis C would be only X many. That was very clear. In fact, the minister did not discuss it. Rather, he gave a talk and said: "We have solved the matter with foreign medicine so that everyone can get what is needed. Until then, not everyone could. [[Up front.]] There's a silent eating system in the medical and health systems and there's no other way to say anything else. [[Up front.]] I'm glad those patients who needed their release from hepatitis C get it. What I hate about it, however, is that it exposes the low level of future policy in the health authorities. We depend on a foreign resident, a pharmaceutical company, to come with us to the project. Otherwise we wouldn't have done this, would we? This applies to other cases, e.g. medicines to treat eye degeneration and such. There's no way any foreign giant companies are gonna make us a lab there. What, then, will happen? Nothing. Then we just keep on saying goodbye to those drugs. We need to set our own ambitious goals, drawing out how we will develop health care into the future. We're willing to do that job, we're willing to do cross-cutting over how we could get together on this. But they always hit the out hand. We've been offering this again and again. Let us have a mutual plan of how we work on these lists, how we work on our greeting, and how we try to remove them so that all will receive the services they need. A respectable president. A new hospital is my opinion, and ours in the United States has become extremely important. It was to be built ten years ago. I'd like to commend the highest. The minister of health, Kristján Þór Júlíusson, for his purpose in this matter. He has provided a very clear view that this hospital must rise and that humans do not have the time or the ability to attack on the fourth round of locals. I have no particular opinion of where the hospital is supposed to be, I really don't care. I just want it built. We know that local selection can take an enormous amount of time. We also know that there will never be 100% content with any location. Everyone will never be happy if they decide to go to the mall at Vifils, never a general agreement to place it in a very narrow area where the State Radio and City Hospital are now. There will always be some who, no matter where the hospital will be, will feel that heavy construction volume. I think we've got this thing at the end of the line, and we're just gonna have to get started. I hope the members of the Independence Party are on their feet with their minister and are supporting him against the roundabouts that appeared at the Prime Minister's office. I'm sorry, but I think it's stalling. When we talk about a new hospital, it's not because we need some ◯fanniszi building in this area, a swamp, and something has to be done. We're not thinking about it. They need a new hospital because existing facilities are distributed all over town, which is out, where molds, molds, and leaks cannot be repaired. Our house - to - house service has become unacceptable today. Hospital construction is needed because we have a new technique for health care and housing does not fit in. Don't you think there's a need for a new PET scan? It's gonna cost everything. We do not have a home that can accept this new technology. If we are going to have health care in the front row, we are going to have a top priority, to attack this building. I support the minister of it, hoping that the greater part will do so and will not be influenced by the populous prime minister. Then I'd like to mention something else. Yesterday, one speaker began talking about the terrible surveillance industry in which men believe that everything in the community is oscillating. There will be so much money in the organisations that monitors, and it will be a cruel matter. I have to say exactly as it is, when I hear this discussion, I get a little chill. This was the case in 2002 and the following year, even in 2008, in the wake of the collapse. What is it that we are told in our study report? It is that weak surveillance agencies contributed to the loss of everything. We did not have a surveillance system that could handle all the major projects involved in a financial system that had reached the size of ten times the national product. I'm not going to participate in that song, where it is claimed that the surveillance industry is disciplined. In all the civilized states around us, countries that are listed by the world's most competitive nations, take Sweden for example, take Norway, for example, as an example, an extremely powerful surveillance in all areas. What will competitive surveillance do, the terrible smell of the surveillance industry? It is to ensure that competitive law and the interests of consumers are being cared for. The Contestant Guard is to observe that this is not a circle, not a monopoly, that it does not misuse its market policy. If that phenomenon became all too strong, it would be awful. These are the views I'm afraid of. It's very pleasant to put this into practice, that this dreary surveillance industry and all of these institutions are just a distraction. But that's what we've been burning on. I think a company and business life thrives where there are rules of play that are clear and stable, where there is a traffic police that ensures that these views exist. I think people need to be careful about this conversation. Our surveillance agencies are still not strong enough. For example, more than one part's proposals are being made to take steps to weaken the Allied agent. Can anyone here claim that this office is far too great? Not at all. The secretary of the Generals is not able to do enough of the work he already has, let alone taking the initiatives he needs to take, and is his role, and we put him in. Why do some suggest that they reduce their donations to him and hide that this is because he changed his housing? We're supposed to reward the companies who clean up their operations and reduce operating costs. If they are able to remove money from business, remove regular expenses, and put more on a project, we should welcome it and reward institutions. What message is being sent to other institutions? The secretary of the Generals decided to move and reduce the cost of fasting, to use less expensive housing, then to take away his differences, and not allow him to take advantage of an important position within the office. I'm sorry. They're sending men the message not to bother leaving expensive shelters, to stay where you are, because there's no way you'll be rewarded for letting you use your money for important tasks on your table. Of course, this is not always the case, but this is the case with those in the Member States where it is clear that additional funds are needed for projects that are designed to be legalized. Hv. paritaprevir St. Pétursdóttir's daughter, Brynhild, studied an important part of her speech and language. It has pointed out that in making changes to the majority of the legal committees, some point out that people are going back to their old ways when it comes to making financial contributions and making decisions on supporting small projects here and there. During the last term, even the terms mentioned earlier, there had been a lot of debate about the idea that this was unnatural. The general body should not give small strength in the others and this assignment in the country. Rather, it would be reasonable to have a fund, a competitive fund in which plans are made, larger plans, and an equal estimate of what to do with money. Thus, long-term funding of projects would be ensured. I spent a long time on a Education Committee, where money was being assigned for all kinds of projects. This may have been a project requiring 2,030 million, and the committee could not say no to anyone, so such projects may have got 1.5 million to start. But it's a bear joke. At that time, people will have to make the money, but they will not get enough to finish the job. None of the committee's members had one way or another determine if the project would bring back something, so that it was justified by the government's placing money on it. There was no food. I thought that in the council it was possible to put such a procedure aside. We took advantage of this opportunity, as it were, of a collapse and cleaned up the whole thing. I meant that it had been a parapolitic reconciliation. So here, do some work that goes past all the canoes that have been installed. The Congress is back in charge of small grants here and there. I'm worried about this. I don't believe until I deal with the fact that they're really going to do this. Some have said that this is done to support the settlements of the country. Wait a minute, we've got contracts all over the country, we've got parish plans and cultural contracts. We have a wide range of systems that can be donated if people want to support the country. The more money you can put into the parish plan and the good things you do about it and the parish plan is that we take the money back to the province and the decision to make what money is going to do. Now they're going back to old school, and I'm very surprised. I believe that men are doing well, but I still think we're going, perhaps unintentionally, back on the wrong path. I find it odd, for example, that suddenly the council decides that some contribution is made to make a reliable survey of biodisil production in one of the rural communities in the country. What about all the others in this? If people felt that this was an important project in the region, it would be easy to collect the funds from the parish plans or contracts. That's what they're for. I'd rather have known that instead of 10 million this, they put 100 million people on contracts or parish plans and made more of them. In that case, it is not likely that such a project will be supported. You see, I don't think they're being paid by this arrangement. Then there is another. Suggested by 10 million. K. temporary contributions for three years to a special employment and innovation fund for the Northern West. There we are creating another programme next to all the others I've listed. I would appreciate it if any member of the members of the administration committee told me in what way it would be better to create a special new fund instead of using all the funds that exist and to increase money to them. I don't think that a special new fund is necessarily designed to produce the most results for the region. I think we need to make a considerable effort in the country. I'm not sure that a small donation in the others and this project directly from the Council is the way. I'd rather we have real plans, real programs and real financial assets for them as well as our cultural agreements and the growth agreements and all the Progs. That'll give me more. And so do I, and we are many of the opinions in this room that one of the greatest support to the settlements is a real contribution to the new transport and maintenance of the country. I think it was interesting what I saw in a study of the University of Akureyri I think, Andrea Hjálmsdóttir and others who won it, about the effect of the Fearing tunnel on sexual equality and the position of the sexes within the community. Early data show that the effect was quite positive to women. Women are moving from these areas, the women who go to Reykjavík and to the capital area. Then the guys come later. This is known. We've talked about this a dozen times here. If better transportation is more likely to have a positive effect on women's farms in the country, is that not something to consider? I think we can do more serious analysis of the tools we're making. Often we get good ideas, such as here, create some new fund for one area, and contribute a whole of 10 million. Yes, it will do something very small, but I'm not sure that it will lead to disaster for a long time. In my opinion, we only need to consider this. There is also one thing that is a little bit foreign in this system, perhaps because of the nature of the politics and the election every four years. We are so afraid to cancel a project that we know will not deliver terribly. We allow some work to continue. I think we may make ourselves creative more often because we appreciate the tools we have made from A to Z and their effect on the communities they're supposed to benefit. Some will certainly pass the test, but others will not. Then we should not be afraid to put aside the tools and make new ones that will benefit us. I'm worried about this, and I hope you don't want people to stand up for old times, but it's all over the changing laws, such small projects that are better off under a different hat. You fear that now the council is falling back in the same old system where decisions are made without any impact, that's just saying, "Yes, it's cool, it's a man who talked to me and told me it was really funny." Decisions will then be made based on rather than on peer assessment, since the effects and projects are assessed into creations and the effects of these funds on communities are actually assessed. A respectable president. I'm almost done with my speech lesson. There's a lot of things you would've wanted to talk about here. For example, I did not enter into the fact that a smaller section of the budget committee has shared with me suggestions that feature very many of the points that I have mentioned, such as. increase to the U.S. government agent and money to the green economy as well as to university and high school. I haven't been able to come in on it. Schools and especially high school are important institutions in the community that need our attention quickly and well. I'm worried about how it will take to make great changes in the education system without them entering the Generals Table. V.E.G. The Minister of Education seems to take advantage of all the gaps to avoid discussing academic matters at the council or discussing policies in them. The consequences of this can be seen in the reply to a question from what happened. Harðardóttir With the decision to reduce the values paid for in the colleges, a Oddný G.. As a result, those who are at the bottom of their priorities in getting into school are actually just cut out. This is done through the budget. In other words, taking money for this group out of school, for those at the bottom of their priorities, 25 years of age and older, is making a decision that the high school does not serve 25 years of age and older. We see the results of this clearly in the minister's answers to questions. paritaprevir Oddný new G. Harðardóttir. A respectable president. I've finished my case for a while. There's a lot to take, and I hope it is. The members of the board are willing to discuss with us the adjustments we have proposed so that men can try to complete the budget with mutual respect.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u68	President. Thank you. A senator's speech. Here's a document that came in on a table called Social Security. A few questions and answers from the Ministry of Health. There are several interesting percentages and figures of that magazine, lacking several other numbers, which refer to this 9.7% rise in the legal committee. It shows that the benefits of those who live with others will be 212 yous. K. but now it's 193 you. K. Minimum revenues are much higher. If compensation is accompanied by prices but is subject to minimal progress, the improvement does not keep up with it. The relative will be the same, but there's no more money, if you're already in the minus, then you'll just get more minus in figures. A little percentage bill for people. So the document considers whether all reformers live in poverty. It says by permission of the president: ▪ The proportion of unemployed and invalids lacking material benefits in 2013 is being referred to in that year; there are not quite newly updated numbers - ◯ or 21.5% of the unemployed and 24.6% desperate. I feel like there's a lot missing, but I don't feel like there's a lot of them. They're just the ones below the limit. There's quite a lot of people out there on the skinny side, just at the zero, and a couple of those with a couple of thousands of calls over low income limits. So there is a very large additional group that is definitely missing numbers. It refers to the proportion of people under the low limit in 2013 as 9.3% of the population. [[The president calls.]] Of these, the majority were in the rented market or 46%.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u69	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for reviewing those numbers. If you have very low incomes, all the percentages are so low. When you look back at evolution in historical context, the income of those who live alone has not been living together, very long under the minimum income. So that means that the groups are gone. A senator mentioned were still down there. In 2007 or 2008, when Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir arrived in government, that ratio changed to some extent, and we began to drop to the minimum wage or approach it. We're going back to the scene of this sparking between groups, and that's what we don't like because we don't think that's the way it should be. Perhaps it is a matter of different attitudes: Is the improvement something that humans most readily owe to, or is it just a salary that you have done well to the community, or is it worth that you cannot earn your own income? It may be a matter of different approaches. We believe that this is an older citizen's pay because they've earned it, they've built this society we're taking over, and it's important that we treat it well. The poor are those who cannot earn their own money. Therefore, we must have the basic wages for these groups at least comparable to the minimum wage in the country. I hope we succeed in getting us out of our pits and talking about these matters and making some plan how we'll collect those pay and make improvements in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u70	President. Hv. paritaprevir Konráðsdóttir Konsley's daughter wanted to make a special distinction between payment and pay, but when the money comes to people's purse, it's all that matters. It's unfair to talk about benefits, not to talk about them at all as pay or alimony, and in the same way as wages, because if a reformer is going to make more money, the benefits will just go away. It's a poor trap we're stuck in. If my compensation goes out of pay, they must have been paid, even if there's some legal crap - I'm hiding behind the law. I don't think it's fair. I look forward to this discussion. Don't we want everyone over minimum income? Is there no lack of material benefits? [[The president calls.]] That there are no people under the poor 25.2%?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u71	A respectable president. Yeah, and like a oo. A senator knows the dwindling power of everyone below after the collapse. As a young person, we may have more opportunities to make up for it in some way. These are the groups that can't, and they're our responsibility. We're their fool's advice, like what? paritaprevir The Helgi of Hjörvar has mentioned. We have to look to it and ask ourselves the conscientious question: " Do we really believe that anyone can survive the net of 170 you? K. a month? Or we believe that if a person lives alone, he can pay for his living and buy for the food and may pay off a car if he has 191 you. K. a month? The answer is no. There are thousands of individuals who need to live on those terms. I feel like we're getting way too much into some foxholes. You said that, you did this and that. Let's just look at these numbers and look at the people behind them and make decisions about them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u72	V.E.G. President. The President won't be able to take me to the gravel. But, hey. A candidate gave a fine talk, and there are several points to be made. I'm going to ask you in my previous answer to the change in my share's proposal for social security. I've become a little confused about the presentation of those suggestions. In an espionage period earlier this morning, officials of the government spoke in such a way that no percentage should be mentioned. They gave the highest answers. Social Affairs minister is kind of scornful because it should not be talked about percentages. I can't read the modification suggestions or the ideas behind the changes in the memory of things that are different from that of people talking about percent. This does not refer to centennial increases. If there's anything I don't understand, it'd be nice to get past it. A senator, because at least he is being held in the General's symposium that it's lame and wrong to talk about a percentage in this relationship, is expected to be worth a cent. What, then, is the suggestion?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u73	A respectable president. There are at least two suggestions that we partners have come up with, and others are suggested by the government resistance that the percentages of increases that occur at the end of the year will be changed from the spring to the middle of the year as others are receiving, including: Senators. On the other hand, there is a synopsis proposal for the council from members of the United States, and I know it is supported by members of the entire government opposition, about a dollar's raise, i.e. raises to 300 thousand in the same paces and minimum wage in the country. These two suggestions are always being discussed. I'm hoping and I want to ask you why. The senator back whether we should try at the council, and I'm not trying to convince her to have done something or to say that I was the best of the children, to get us out of the hole in this and do what we do. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson was speaking before, i.e. Really discuss whether we can watch the figure, ask ourselves, " Can people really survive this?'Then make a practical plan for the rise that takes into consideration the fact that these people can survive in our society and be bearable.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u74	V.E.G. President. There is then the most important suggestion that has been discussed at the council and that has given rise to much discussion, especially on Facebook, is not a question of centennial increases but a percentage. I can really talk to the government about a lot of things, too, but it's clear that we've set it up to make changes in the social security system, and that's what needs to be focused on, and that's what we're going to do. But I'm gonna ask who. A senator who lets me access other medications that are the drugs, since there were some false references. A senator in that respect. I sit on a welfare committee and heard them say and review as employees of the Land Hospital, i.e. The head of the Committee of Medicinal Products and the chairman of the Committee of the Land Hospital, went to our committee, and it is wrong to insist that a minister has placed on some quotas inside the system. It's a rationalization process. That was the same for a senator during his last term. At that time, the Syndicate, who conducted this Ministry, was also equipped with certain legal resources in the medical sector, which meant that there was much to be done for the crowns that would be due to rationalization. A senator was also a greeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u75	A respectable president. No, it wasn't wrong because of him. paritaprevir An Kjerúlf Þorvarðardóttir Þordóttir has a letter in which this is made clear. [[For example, consider: It's wrong.]] We were in the last term with a team called the S-labelled medicine, the medicine doctors are coming under. I'm gonna take it as an example in this brief period. When I arrived at the Ministry of finance, that class of the budget was over 700 million. K. To 1.5 billion minus. I tried to figure out if we could handle it. It was possible then to put a quota on medication, but it wasn't done. Rather, we crossed over and realized that this could be a swinging point. However, that government decided to send out the orders that the legislature be held. That's the difference. Some legal teams are simply such that 100% of the results cannot be estimated. Many parts of the health sector are like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u76	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir for a really nice speech. I make the talk because there were so many reasons for it. I would like to come in many things, for much was presented in a talk. Senator. First, I'm going to say the word. A senator here we are discussing a very policy document and issues, which are the laws of the law at any time. That is why there is good reason to discuss it. First of all, I'd like to step in on it for a while. A senator spoke about surveillance. When we're at negative notes, we're talking about the surveillance industry, but I think we're doing it. A senator would agree that we want to see the market as free as possible, where consumers and producers and sellers agree on how it is desirable. We certainly live in a very limited market, a single market. I'd like to ask you what. A senator will see if she can support herself in some way - we would like to compare what surveillance agencies, each of them, are supposed to be big. See what? A senator sees a standard for each size degree on a single set of institutions? I want to end up that, for example, the SEC that has been involved, is increasing the pressure there just to support consumers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u77	A respectable president. I appreciate those questions. Although my speech was a little heavy on the welfare side, I'm the one standing here with a very liberal right leg and I want to see a free business life. I want to see that we can have a powerful competition as well as a foreign trade. That's why I believe that we have to get rid of the Icelandic crown and pick up a real currency, because somehow we're always building some walls that make it impossible for us to do normal business. It causes skis in this country, et cetera. That, for example, is the basis for it. The same is true of surveillance, if you want a free, fair, competitive business life that is attractive to foreign investors, which is attractive and good to start a business inside, you have to have a powerful surveillance industry, just call it, and then I'm trying to get some positive merit on that concept. Sweden, for example, has been successful there. There will also be a speculative conclusion. We've been a little eager to be talking these institutions down and saying, "Hey, why is there always such an increase to them while the others are getting down?" When asked about the standards, I think that the standards may be the projects themselves and the circumstances at hand, such as the Contestance Control. If it is simply so that they have a case that they have to put in a lot of Šrisors, then all you realize is that they need money for it and then reduce their donations when that work is completed, etc. to make a person more flexible, but at the same time, someone will be trusted to appreciate the flexibility they need. We may not need to find the bike in this. Sweden is possibly a country we should look to. When it comes to public law, we look to them. [[The president calls.]] Maybe there, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u78	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. We're in the same surveillance sites, and it's important. The more available, and we want to see it where it comes from, especially on the consumer side so that we have an efficient market with the rules and stability we have to ensure, the lawgiver. But to achieve a positive view of this important role of monitoring, I think we should look at some kind of standard, Sweden might be a very good guide there. There have been indications of filming, because I mentioned before the FEC, that the size of the number of employees varies from country to country, and it's hard to figure out what is the desired size.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u79	Mr. President. You see, it's a little tricky, I agree with that. What we may need to decide is that some basic functions need to be available. Then, on top of that basic activity, in which there are initiative checks and normal research and market follow-up, there's got to be some other tune that's more moody. I don't think we're often even financing that infrastructure. It may be the first task, to complete it, so that you can go to surveys, initiative checks, to the extent needed in such a market as ours. I am becoming overly tired of living in a country where we are always creating a situation for some small group to profit entirely. And because we have discrepancies and we don't have a free open international business life in Iceland, there's going to be a mistake like this. I want all of us to have equal opportunities to act and seize opportunities for business affairs on some legitimate grounds. [[The president calls.]] So we have to look into this, but don't talk it down like I think people do a lot.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u80	V.E.G. President. In 2016, we will discuss the standard of the first session of this council, which is a budget for the coming year. I've thought about going over the budget, premium, economic situation, my committee's opinion and suggestions, and if I can get over it in those 40 minutes that I'm being dosed in the first round, I'm also going to discuss a change in government and more part of it. First, I'd like to say that there are a lot of things in our country today that are going well, fortunately. If you think about it, you have often been in this program discussing the budget of the coming year in a worse situation than you are in society. In many respects, circumstances are very good. It's a very good situation. It's a good thing. Even at the highest. Prime Minister has said that thanks to all the present government, I'd like to say, a respectable president, so that everyone is truthful, that this has been the joint project of three last governments, the government that took over the 2007 elections, independent groups, and members of the United States, and the minority administration that followed by the support of the Agency, who promised to defend the government will fall with several conditions, such as the speed of working on the Constitution. We leave it in the middle of things, but what I was going to say is that often much worse laws have been submitted, and the situation in society has been much worse than at present. I'm here at the outset to briefly review a few sizes in this relationship that explain the situation. As I say, I do not hesitate to claim that it is the product of the past few years. It is the product of the restoration that was needed after the 2008 collapse. It was often not good to stand in this chair or sit in these seats and votes with things necessary and had to be done first after a crash. I just remind you that a budget was estimated to be 220 billion dollars. on that price - wasn't it before 2009? I haven't figured out what it is today. Now there's a whole other situation. There are many challenges that we face, which I'm about to take a brief look at right now. Yearlyflation is 2%, and we have been consistently below the prices of the Federal Bank, which is 2.5%, for 22 consecutive months. I said, "Absence is 2%." If we accept inflation without the housing personnel that I understand are done in a very large number of countries, it is only 0.3%. In effect, the above 2014 agreements made at the time can be attributed to a 2.8% increase in wages, the low inflation. It must be kept in mind that these contracts were actually very responsible, but not all of them were able to accept a 2.8% increase in pay and, most certainly, the lowest paid. What went on. We know how those contracts reasoned. Some union officers were out of line, and they wanted to get more and did their part to blow them up, which, in fact, led to the present coalitions that are much higher and are really numbers that no economic system should have been tolerated. No doubt these treaties were very necessary because there was taking steps for a considerable number of members of society and correcting the reward according to the order of the Crown, which we should remember that in the years to come, nothing will be greatly strengthened. Over the past few years, we've been preparing our society to work on the GPA and the gang logout that has come and has been after a collapse. As I said: During 2014, the short bargains, the 2.8% contracts, can be attributed to the low inflation. So now the government and me Icelanders all have low inflation, i.e. 2% now or 0.3% without housing, including This is why. However, the most important causes of this low inflation are ideal external conditions where inflation in our major business countries is nonexistent. So let us not forget that a 60% reduction in global oil prices has its share. I'm gonna repeat what I said because I'm not sure everyone understands how high the number is. That's a 60% reduction in global oil prices. We take care of the whole society. I'm just saying, for example, that parking owners who dump fuel on their cars save from average driving up to 10 o'clock. K. per month for fuel costs, if the prices for fuel today are compared to the prices when the price was high. In short, it can be said that favorable external conditions, i.e. the value of import and reduction of the oil prices play a role in lower inflation in this country. It's not what we've seen here when it's the highest. The prime minister wants to take all this effort. He once said that in a talk. I thought it was the highest. The prime minister, then, is very modest, for he did not take credit for the success of the Icelandic team in soccer men or women; they also do well. In other words, there are external conditions that allow us to make this room today and the situation. I'm just going to go over the situation because despite these favorable external conditions, we are paying only about 10.7 billion in share of the state's budget, 700 billion in income, 689 billion in expenses, and about 105.911 billion in expenses. That's about 1.3%. Then I'm going to ask you this question: How would the situation in society be if oil prices were as if it were any losses since then, if we didn't use this 60% reduction in global oil prices? We could think of the development, the general public and the commercial business in general. Of course, spending would be much worse. Now I don't realize how much fuel is available on the market, but we can imagine if there were 60% higher numbers there. During the past 12 months, the index of buying has increased by 6%. These are the facts that we will rejoice over. In the first nine months of this year, economic growth was found to be 4.5% and is based on a fairly broad foundation, unlike what we have seen many times before. So there's no one point that's dragging the wagon completely. Happily, public predictions are well in the way that economic growth will be maintained in a fine and greater way than in the countries we compare with. There are positive signs in this regard. This year the crown's gang has gained no less than 9% in terms of euro. Overall, the geologic count has dropped by 7% for the remaining year. It's supposed to be a positive thing for us here on the land, and it's supposed to come back to a reduction in prices because we're an import-dependent people, moving in so much. This should benefit us in reduced prices, but at times it is discussed that it has not returned. However, there are many things in society today that we can see as a result of Christmas, great shopping months, trade stores, that merchants give considerable discounts, and there is much room. Added to that is the expected reduction in customs on a variety of products, such as clothing, shoes, and so forth. The other side of the coin is that we get less for our export products. Now, I don't have the last figures on changing goods, but we can be sure that if we keep on getting stronger and getting less and less on our exports, we're going to go back to business halls, as was so often here before. Then I would say that the red lights have flashed along with an export of Icelandic dollars, which is not discussed in today's society. Foreign people who even have an increase of -0.3% and -0.5% are now flocking to Iceland and depositing money in accounts of 5% to 66% interest. Honorable President, if it's true what I've heard this year, there's an increase in centenarians or pounds or what we'd like to call them about 60 billion bucks. and it's well over 100 billion today, so it's also a blinking red light worth remembering. One of the very positive things in this context for us now, and you can see in financials and society all over the world is that this year is heading for 1.2 million tourists to Iceland. May I remind you that five years ago, in 2010, they were less than 500 thousand. Thus, in five years, the number of tourists has increased by 700 thousand. They come naturally because of the fall of the crown, but they also come out of various conditions created in society. In fact, the island's volcanic eruptions put us on the map, and if we go into that illustration, it could be said that Iceland was ▪ hip and rocked. The campaign of the last government also had an impact, in terms of increasing the number of tourists to the country, inspired by Iceland. It was a success, and we are indeed still enjoying fruitage from the efforts that began in the time of the last government. The crown's gang drop is no doubt a larger factor than we realize and made Iceland a very cheap stop. That is why our tourism has become our largest export and has supported the crews of the crown and its support, along with the reduction of unemployment that is once again very low, which, of course, is very positive. The vast number of tourists are still okay. I don't think there's too many of them. I would like to be able to spread them more over the year and over the country especially, but I think it's getting a little slow. I think the tourist season is getting longer to both ends. I also see it in many parts of the country that tourists who were not seen in some places three or four years ago are showing up today, especially during this time of year. Even people come to enjoy the northern lights or the weather. This has a tremendous positive effect in national preparation. That's why I'm very upset that we at the General Assembly, from all categories, let's not be able to get some conclusion about taking a fair, moderate price of tourists to live up to their destinations and meeting communities with the high costs they have of tourists but with no income. I already said the highest. A travel minister brought the natural pass concept, which was still still not born, including Because of the dissatisfaction of the council itself, I could not understand why we could not sit down and decide to raise the cost of stay, which was established in the last government, which is only 100 cents. every night, but it gives us less than 300 million. K. No. Instead, the top priority is to make suggestions in this situation and now put 850 million directly from state funds into the structure of tourist attractions, which are designed for itself fine. Let us not forget that the state's budget has made a huge fortune for tourists in the form of a valuable tax and another tax, but it would still have been a perfect way. I've said it here and I'll say once more that the host tax is probably in most of the cities we come into, and we pay in silence and quiet. It's known among tourists, and that's why we should film it. It should give us money to live up to construction and reform at tourist locations, as I said, and allow us to accept the massive number that will come in almost years. I told you earlier that 1.2 million would come this year. Will they not be 1.4 million next year? I wouldn't be surprised. It hasn't been done. Then I'm just going to come up with some positive, positive, yet negative factors too. What we see happening is an apartment price, e.g. in the capital area, about 45% has increased since the beginning of 2011, with no less than 45%. This increase has, in whole or in part, been driven by an increase in prices on farms. However, an apartment outside the capital area, i.e. in the country area, rising at the same time by 25%. That explains what the local Parliaments have often been talking about, i.e. A gap between capital and country, in this respect. There was indeed a great decrease in prices after the collapse of the economy, but apartment prices rose again. But there are challenges ahead. These increases have been driven by a small supply. Many struggles over several apartments, and that's why prices are rising, but large rivers have included the real estate market in search of their first apartment. Indeed, there are many things to be avoided in this discussion and measures so that they will not be forced back into some real estate season. That is why this is really a delicate matter. So it is a very delicate matter, and up to the sad fact that the current government, which has been sitting for two and a half years, has not yet been provided with housing products, although it is true that there are two or three basics of seven that the government was going to contribute to housing. There is a problem in this regard because we have to make sure that supply is sufficient in relation to demand so that property sources that continue to grow, although, of course, things are moving back to normal, there is a difference between property and debt. As I said at the beginning of my case, we're in 2016's budget falling to 700 billion dollars. The finish line. It is about one third of national production. Government funds are theirs, but the fees are 689 and 11 billion left over or something around 1%. When I'm at the highest. The secretary of finance produced a bill that was expected for 15 billion rest. The work of a legal body was delayed for ten days on the budget till 2 p.m. O.r., as we have seen, in spite of the longest assembly to be held at the council. We began September 8, the second Tuesday of September. This was to help ensure that a financial committee would have more time to bring the bill in time, and we would not be even in a time crisis just before Christmas to complete the budget. It hasn't worked. I'm telling you, it's been because, as a matter of fact, a larger part of the budget was tried to cut more down and get the rest back to the 15 billion figures, as a financial minister had planned. The rest of it clearly got to the point and didn't think it could. There is also one important factor to keep in mind when considering these economic factors and the positive conditions that exist today, that the remainder is not more than 11 billion. As I said at the outset: "What would be the situation if world conditions weren't the way they are today and we didn't enjoy 60% of global prices on oil and other sources of raw food? Then I want to come to what I have done many times as a talker in the past days during this autumn Summit. This is how we restore these positive financial benefits to those who had to cut back during the crash years and the years that followed. I'll just say it right away, so you don't have to ask me questions about it. It was never with joy. A man had a bad taste in his mouth. Several factors had to be attacked and entered. I further remind you that in the first year, we were dealing with 220 billion angles in the current prices, and of course the government, whether right, left, or middle control, had to respond. Otherwise, there would have been a national problem ahead of us, and there would have been nothing else. But now there is another situation, and this year, 2015, we are talking about budgets of 22 billion dollars. leftovers that I plan to be, not 22 billion, but at least 32 billion when it's finished. [[To the point: Thanks to the takers...]] Then the big and large differences arise in how we return these benefits to members of society. I say for my part as a sponsor to the last government that it was always set in my mind, and I often said that once it was better returned. The country chose a new government of 2013 into the history of world championship elections, which were much larger and more than Germany's chancellor when he offered it just before elections to divide every Eastern goal that was handless to one Western mark on a couple, known as the election for the century. I think the campaign of these political parties, and especially one of them, the forward party, broke out this world record from the German Chancellor, i.e. In terms of the correction to become 300 billion, but so much less, and the change in insurance, etc. The whole thing has been betrayed or only to a small extent expedient. Then I will come to what is my heart's business and justice, and I will continue to speak for it here as long as it takes for us to succeed. It is how we treat the elderly and the poor both this year and the next. Let's go over first this year. The budget does not require that the elderly and the poor get backtraces, such as I allow me to claim that everyone else in the society who has had an alternative agreement has been obtained. At the end of the Council, as foretold, all agreements were made in the country, presupposed to pass their laws by the Republic's president, for Ministers, for members of Congress, for judges, for the heads of the states, etc. All of it was repeated raises, all of it. The workforce's members also developed a retrospective and even made up of the World Council Presidency Committee, the World Health Organization for the Council. The Presidency Committee shall discuss the salary of the General Agent and Presidency Committee has concluded this matter and, of course, made the decision for the social groups that I mentioned here and agreed to the same rise for the General Assembly agent, and again. The Presidency Committee made that decision. But we, 63 senators sitting here, are the advice of the elderly and desperate because they always have their increases in decisions at the General Assembly, either through the budget or by the legal process, as the social security laws indicate. Today, the government is going to cheat. I'm a complete mystery why I'm at the highest level. A government will get its way. Why, on the other hand, do men take the beatings and humiliation they experience by betraying the elderly and by evaporating the growth that we all are experiencing? This is thought to be expected in the memory of the section and was also expected in the budgets that were made up of the administrative body on a roll call not long ago. We're also talking about the next year. I'm going to keep talking about this year because I still want to hope that the State Department will see to it 3rd. budgets for 2015 and supply and raise the interest of older people and disability, although at the cost of net 1,54.5 billion, according to my opinion. There's a table for a bar. We have the rest, we now have 22 billion leftovers. As I have said before, I predict that the rest will be at least 10 billion. Why, in the face of such an increase, are older ones and orphans not to be given? I noticed this morning in the talk of the highest. A social minister in unsubstantiated inquiries that she brought quite a written text, read it here for us, and gave a big talk about percentage increases, up to 17.1% that she had calculated. It's just a 17.1% increase in 172s. K. is really nothing. But a 17.1% increase of 1 million is a lot. Although many elderly and poorer people, if we count them together, and these are high numbers, this is a fair matter, exactly as the government raised $3.3 billion budgets by 2015, which was raised by $3.3 billion. to help with the budget called Unforeseen, which was 6 billion earlier. It was a total of 9.5 billion. What are you going to do with that money? They will be taken from an uncertain future and taken out to the states, including the Generals, to finance these retrospective payments. In fact, I think there is no need to argue more with this than with fairness and justice. Councilmen don't give up and don't want this. I have hoped that something happened at a meeting of the budget board today, which took about an hour and 45 minutes, with older people and microplies, when the evidence was reviewed, and they have concluded that we should do this and that the administrative part will notice that we are taking care of it, and they will be agreed with budgets by the 3rd Environment. to raise the elderly and the poor, as well as everyone else. There's a coin. Then I'll get to the 2016 budget. This 9.7% increase is expected from January 1 to the elderly. But all others who have signed a contract will have an increase on May 1. Second to next. It says that the wages of the elderly and the desperate, if they are to be truthful and follow after others, should be raised by 5.9%. That's not expected in the 2016 budget bill. In other words, the government intends to ignore the rise to them. An old slogan often used here may be used: The government feels that she has found large banks in the country to hang down and cut by. They're elderly and desperate. If we take examples of a microchip and men access a highly professional calculator, they can see there that the elderly and the elderly who are only on the striped ears get 172 thousand paid for a person's own housing. That's why society is so angry. The proposals of the administration memory, the memory of the International Parliament, which I prefer not to call a management position but a smaller part, are addressed to the factors that I've made up of publicity. As I discussed at the beginning of my case, about the good economics and conditions of things here, we have money to do this. It's different than it was during the last term. It was always a promise that the elderly, the micropigs, and others who had to cut down on it would be better. I'm sorry, but there's a new government that doesn't intend to do it. The terms of my share are expected to reimburse the budget and the 2016 budgets are expected to include a 5.9% rise on May 1, if I remember correctly, along with other very good proposals. I think it's the biggest and most important thing. A respectable president. At the end, I want to discuss the discussion that exists today in society, whether in community media or elsewhere, where the elderly and the desperate share their position with us. It's tremendously striking, and it's often been but never now. Therefore I exhort men to read an open letter to Bjarni, the son of Benedict, the son of Benediktsson, the chief. Secretary of finance, which Elva Dögg Gunnarsdóttir writes in the Ladies' newspaper today. Thus, the article will begin with Presidential permission: ◯England's Bjarni Bjarni◯ - described as about a 36 - year - old woman living in Iceland, and she considers living in Iceland to be a very high quality of life in clean and unspoilable nature, good air, clean water, and that we live in low crime rates, etc. Here's a good place to have kids. But one is what [me] don't like and that's the social security system. Then she continues to describe her situation. I encourage every member of the board to read this letter and see if they cannot reach the conclusion afterwards because it is reasonable to share some of the remaining budgets of 2015 and the good status of society for 2016 to these people. Elva Gunnarsdóttir Gunrsdótttir finishes his letter in this creature, with the permission of a president: ▪ I'm not asking for pity, pity pays no bills. I'm asking for an opportunity to live a decent life full of joy and dignity. Previously, she described her situation of disability and how she tried to improve her income by 50 percent of her employment and how it is taxed like any other. It's not going to end up together at all. She explained that she had decided to pay for her apartment but was forced to move out and rent the apartment on a public market and move into her father's small apartment, which went from bed for her and her son. That's a hell of a description. If the management department took the time to read this small letter along with other e-mails that come to our members, we should all see our own decency in correcting this discrimination and the abuse I would like to call as the current government parties by not recognising payoffs to these society groups over and over again as everyone else has received. I'm sorry, I don't have time to read the whole letter. There would be good reason to share this with members of the council and with those who are listening and to place it in the council. It's a hell of a description, a respectable president. Why have I made this so important in my recent case here at the Council? That's because I think it's only fair and what's more, I feel like I've read about and heard about in the 2013 election campaign the current president of the Government parties, the highest. Bjarni Benediktsson and the highest. Prime Minister Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, promises elderly ones and micropunchers far more than they are doing today. They said they weren't going to cheat. I'd like to find out that, if any member of the board is going to claim that the Social Security Act says that it needs to be done every year as it says in the law, there's no evidence that it's January 1 and never at any other time. You see, it was one of the works the last government did in my 2011. At that time, there were significant increases and, of course, some increases in the lowest wage rate, which are small in centenarians. What happened then? A government government that was cutting down and making ends meet trying to balance the budget raised all this pay over time by a Hannesson appointed minister of well - being. That was our vision. It was our job. It is no new science to achieve a baseless budget and to have leftovers if everything is cut down. There's nothing new. We could have let it go by then and returned a better fund, but we kept what we said in the collapse, that we would return as soon as the results were better. [[Up front.]] Finally, I reiterate what I said earlier about the promise of the current government to voters. I have a letter written in Reykjavík, April 22, 2013. When did they vote again? It was the end of April. It's a few days before the election. It begins, with the permission of the President: Your choice. After a few days, we're going to the election, where we will share in making a decision about what we want to accomplish as a community for the next four years. It involves the lives of all the people of the country and not only how we have it but also how we live for future generations. They say, among other things, that more generations deserve security and good quality of life. This and the second, it is discussed that stability, well - being, and security are important across age groups. ▪ To ensure safety and well - being, our society needs to enjoy economic growth and stability. Then comes the raisin at the end of the dog: Who wrote this letter, where all this was promised to all the older citizens, if it hasn't happened to me at the beginning? These excellent voters were senior citizens by the number of people, all of them older citizens. This letter is written by Bjarni Benediktsson, president of the Independence Party, with great kindness to senior citizens. This letter promises to improve the interests of the elderly and the poor. A respectable president. When one minute is up, I'll ask. The members of the Independence Party, who may respond to me, bring something other than a combination flood to the highest degree. Social Affairs Minister of Eygló Harðardóttir had an earlier date, i.e. 17.1% increase. Men don't live on an increase of 17.1%, 17.1% on something lame is nothing. It's not something people live on. Rather, come and discuss how elderly and desperate people should bring up a life of shame that I say at the end of my talk without any hesitation that is one of the greatest shames in this country. It was only natural, therefore, that labor movements and union unions in the country should put emphasis on lowering the lowest wage, even though it will be only in the middle of the 2018 paying period of 300 you. K. I'm the opinion that equal to the idea that there should also be basic numbers for the elderly and the desperate.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u81	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Kristján Möller Muller for his speech. The first part of his talk was interesting, and I agree with many of the points presented there. It was, in many respects, a fine analysis of the environment in which we live. Thank you. A senator is eager to think that we are only brighter. We have the opportunity to advance if we keep our cards right. The opportunity is there. The second part raises questions. Hv. A senator is waiting for me to witness in some percentages from the highest level. The Minister of Social Affairs, which says that since the beginning of 2014, the improvement in social security has increased by 17% and at the same time, the prices have increased by 7%, so it has progressed well, we must agree. We can also agree on that, me and the other. A senator, of course, wanted to do better. We agree that we want to do better with those who work hard. But we are faced with this task, as I noticed in my speech last night, that we have failed despite our years of repeated attempts to tailor the ills of the social security system needed. How do you like it? When it comes to making a decision on the sum of money, do a senator have a hooker? Does he think it normal for the General Assembly to collect and increase money from month to month? [[The president calls.]] The price of this material or the development of pay, etc. should be taken into account.?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u82	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason for this answer. On the one hand, it discusses the first part of the talk and the second part of the talk. It was found that he was pleased with the first part, not the second part. That is exactly what grieves me, that a member of the Independence Party should not have been pleased with the latter part of the section when I am discussing the interest of elderly and desperate people, when I am talking about this feedback that we're talking about going over the elderly and desperate, as are all other society groups that have been receiving dressbacks. I would have hoped that independents would see themselves, and hope to see it again, and come back, and that we can settle this issue at the Council, to do better. Now there's no time to go into what he called a failure on the insurance system. It won't be done in a short answer. No doubt there are many of them. I take, for example, in my speech earlier, of the insurance company's calculator that it is very accessible and convenient to work with the calculator to see how the elderly and the desperate are doing. This calculates the tax rate. This calculates that this person I took an example in my speech pays nearly 30,000 taxes from the 225 thousand that can be reached through the social security system. We need to talk about how to do this. We also need to discuss what will happen to the future, as the senator may be asking me. When young people start taking pensions in the coming years, which have been paid long in a pension fund, the combination will be quite different from what it is today. We're here talking about large groups of people who had no chance of paying in a pension fund during their early years. I can take an example from north, men who worked on the silver plate paid in a pension fund, but the women who worked in vain to put the signs in the barrel did not pay in a pension fund. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u83	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator very much. I'm going to ask him to explain to me a procedure under the last budget of the left United States government and the 2013 left greens. By the year 2012, prices had increased by 5.2%, while the social security improvements, as determined, had increased by 3% by the beginning of the year; that was, in fact, less than 2%. Nevertheless, a greater proportion of the budget decides to suggest that the improvement in social security should be increased only 3.9% in 2013. In other words, the decision was made on the majority of the budgetary committees not to compensate for the loss of micro- and older citizens due to higher inflation than expected. [[The president calls.]] Now there is much further progress and improvement. [[The president calls.]] The increase might be much higher, but unlike what used to be, we should agree.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u84	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator goes back to the last budget year of the last 2013 government, expecting the budgets that were administered in December 2012. I wish I would remember exactly what the situation was then when this was being made up, whether it was left over or lost after a difficult year before. I know why. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon could recall that number, he was the minister of finance at the time. There, on the other hand, the increase in prices, the improvement, and the interaction, of what is chosen. Many things have gone well in our country and perhaps mainly because of our external circumstances. Inflation is very low, thanks to large reductions in oil prices and other factors, so it plays everything in this situation. But what that shows up, and what it is all about with older people and micropunchers is that the newest bond of bargains led to these increases and the way these bargain contracts were thrown out of the highest order. Governments with treaties for public employees. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u85	President. This discussion shows that they lack goals. They're arguing about where we're going to draw the line. Nobody knows. No one would agree on that. Usually, that is what we have to start with so that we know what we're arguing about. Are we considering that these amounts should be kept in minimal amounts, in necessary donations, which are somewhat higher, above poverty limits? Once we know this, we can start talking about what changes will bring. Now we're talking about a simple percentage back and forth without speaking. The top point must reflect the number that is behind it. They are people, poor people, elderly, below poverty limits. At least it has to be pulled up there. The next step is a minimum wage, obviously filled with people, more people than is below poverty limits. If, according to various analyses, we take the provisions, we are up to over 400 you. K. per month. I'd like to see a little more policy in what line we're going to aim for so that it's not a truffle. The way it does it is to go out and ask people, not to try to argue about it here because it has never worked. No other government has achieved this goal, which is not a goal. Because there is no goal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u86	V.E.G. President. In answer to questions that arise in the past. In effect, a senator in this short answer could be said to be that the employment community, on behalf of all professionals, has come to the conclusion that the unions have raised the lowest salary to 300 of you. K. and taking the time to do so in the middle of 2018. This is followed by the removal of the present government by treaties with various government officials. Is that not the beginning of a government contract with a high school teacher? That's where the beat hit. I said in the first part of my speech earlier that at the fall of the gang crash, this mutation has occurred, and I view these high percentage increases as part of changing the pay structure in the country in line with this new gang recording in the Icelandic kroner. [[Up front.]] This has been done, and the government participated in it, and then I say with the elderly and the desperate: Yes, it is to be followed. [[Up front.]] I have no other definition to take into consideration. I can be in the forwardals and all that are higher than this, but this is what the professional life has come to conclusions, and the government is involved in - yes, and then in the state of state only after negotiating with one member who is elderly and desperate, a group who lives far below poverty limits, a group whose policy is going into poverty.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u87	President. As I mentioned earlier, the key to this is that there are people under minimal progress, under the poverty line, which means they need crowns to make ends meet. When you have a percentage increase compared to others, you keep the same percentage between them, but you need more than one dollar to achieve the same limit you used to. What I'm trying to call for is, where the floor should be? Is it poverty bounds, minimum advance, that's a policy limit? If we're going to solve this, we're going to have to work it out. There is no one government or class or anything that can solve it. It is not the job life or the elderly or the poor, all of us must take part in that decision. [[The president calls.]] Is that possible? Have we not tried to do so, but have we not failed? I don't know the story well enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u88	V.E.G. President. Yes, the second part of my talk here, about the government's budget before 2016, was about the society groups that are lacking in the envelope for every month, many crowns; about people who cannot naturally draw out life as we would like to be in our fine society. Where's the floor? asks why. Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. Yes, I have no better floor to aim at right now than the contracts of the labour market, of all the workers in the country, whether in the construction, tourism, industry, or each. They negotiated 300 yards. K. Minimum wage, their rise in stages to 2018. I think it's the minimum wage society's ever found on and on our project, that the advice of the elderly and the desperate, as the law indicates today, is taking that up here. I think we should stick with it. That is what is expressed in the call of Elva Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, in an open letter to Secretary Bjarni Benediktsson; it describes the situation of microbubbles, and it is tragic.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u89	Mr. President. Transport is being treated in such financial terms, and I just want to ask you why. There's a senator in there. In the adjustment of the majority of the sector at 2nd. has little in common with various factors. Interestingly, with regard to the airports in the budget bill, there is a warrant for a reduction of 516 million. K. This is the point, and then it's 400 million more. K. in changes into this joint, which does not offset the cut-off. So 100 billion is still missing. K. to the cutting to which this is a class in the budget bill. I'd like to ask you a question about attitude. A senator with regard to this and the transport issues in general. They're putting 235 million. K. to make road repairs for much of the part's changes. New incomes, maintenance, and management are very limited in the bill itself, such as labour. A senator knows. I'd also like to hear his attitude about the fact that this is not the time for transportation, and people are working this along the lines. It's 400 million people in the Habitat Fund. K. in making adjustments because it was very much the small contribution that was made on the budget. What do you think? A senator of these braces and Band-Aids? Those who get this little money done are beautiful all because it is not too much to cry out in the past. All I want to hear is the senator's attitude on these issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u90	Mr. President. For one thing, I want to thank you. paritaprevir Magnúsdóttir Electrical Island for answering my questions and asking me about transportation. I'm pretty sure this is my first discussion of budgeting, since I sat down at a council in 1999, since I don't make transportation a subject. That's what I did on purpose this time. On the other hand, I wanted to spend time in logical support for the improved state funds and society in general. I reviewed why it is, and then I talked about what I feel is the most wrong thing in my life and a pig's tea, both in this year's budget and in the next year's budget, i.e. how to treat the elderly and the need to be treated. But to transport. That's right, as a matter of course. A senator says, the conduct of this government in transport has been shocking. We've seen that a transport strategy has been established, resounded. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir while she was Minister of the Interior. So I told them that there was a transport plan about little or nothing. It was really Iceland record not doing anything about transportation. And speaking of our difficult years during the last term, in the past government, several Iceland records were struck in a series of years, with the meth of transportation. Never has there been so much work done as in those difficult years. Of course, this was also supported by the need for public projects, etc. But this non-existent transport program, which I understand to wait for the financial conclusion - these little patches, which are being placed here to make changes to a greater portion of the budgetary committee, are 300◯400 billion. K. This one and the other group, which is almost the only new one that comes in. This is not even enough to pay for the projects that are going on that are all over the projects that made decisions in the recent government. There have been no new tasks. That's not good enough. This adjustment involves putting small birds into the members of the council who sit on a greater portion of the legal committee in an effort to make an atonement for the people. But a small amount on top of nothing is nothing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u91	V.E.G. President. Yeah, look at nothing. It's not much. But I wanted to ask you what. A senator into the reduction in student values, funds for high school education. We know not only the changes that have been made in the intake of students in high school, the 25 - year rule for book study. A survey showing that between 2014 and 2015, there is a reduction in high school to 742 students, of whom 400 are studied. At the same time, the availability of young people to the after-school schools seems to be very severe, and particularly so, throughout the country. People who have for some reason stopped studying and are going to continue studying in their homeland after 25 years of age do not have the ability to educate themselves in these places. What do you think? A senator about that?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u92	V.E.G. President. First, just what I forgot to discuss in a discussion about transport earlier as a means of explaining transport plans or not transport plans, etc.; I'd like to say that I'm very pleased with one component in one of the many modifications of the greater part, i.e. increased in the photoengineering of the country. I will come to that in my second speech, whenever it is held. This is positive because it is new. First there were 300 million. K. In the project, which would have meant 20 years of work, this is up to 500 million. K. For reduction of student parameters and maximum attack. Education minister of high school education, i.e. not allowing 25 years of age and older to sit in high school, as we have recently done, is very effective. This means that the number has decreased by 447 in book studies and by 295 in art and work studies, a total of 742 students. Of course, when we call on them and talk to the school headmasters about it, we hear them in school. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What I'm most upset about is that this was done without discussing this great policy at the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u93	President. It's a lot of work. It's the budget of every year. I'm sorry I didn't have time to get the data together better, but it's been a lot of work in the last few days. I'd like to grab down in a few places, including... in a panel of more part of the budget board, in the first part of the bill for funding, policy and outlook, and in the budget itself. Let's just start somewhere. The section on budgetary bill is referred to in the section's list of parts. It is said that the cost of animal travel has not been carefully evaluated. It has now been two and a half years since the Law was given, and five changes have been made in the law during that terms. The question, then, is not whether a careful assessment of the cost of implementation and follow-up of the law was made but why it is not for cost analysis or at least experience based on the activities of the past two years. Ironically, in the members of the greater body of members, it is said, by permission of a president: In accordance with job and innovation information, the Agency's annual annual cost is - i.e. Food Organization - ◯um 1203/4130 million K. ... butin the financial and economic expense report, 96 million were expected. K. additional cost per year So it's up to you to figure out how much this will cost. The original assessment is available and also the actual cost. The law isn't burdensome. It is costly, but whether it is costly or expensive is another matter. The law will not be burdensome until its implementation cannot bring about the intended goals. In the opinion of the greater portion, the president's permission states: 'The result of the induction of new laws shows that substantial costs over-programming are fact.' Now I have news to move for the greater part of it. Funds: This is not a newcomer, either in the implementation of legislatures, software projects, or other projects, especially larger projects in which the situation often changes and many come. Evaluation of smaller tasks is usually more accurate. These were no new sciences that came out there. What I found interesting was a complaint about numbers that were missing, which was also viewed as missing. But I'm glad they're asking for more accurate analysis and reasons for costing it. 120 30-30 million. K. An extra piece may be more than just hoping for this point to cost. The majority of these committees also refer to the page 6 of the Committee's Summit on the budget for development of surveillance institutions. The table there is very good, but how beneficial is it? Of course, it is not possible to talk about just a relative increase in expenses. She doesn't say anything without an explanation. For example, a 203% increase in financial growth may be justified and directly returned, or indirectly, more than the increase in expenses. But I agree with the words of a greater proportion of the legal committee, where he says that goals need to be clear and measurable. What is lacking in providing for the institution's ability to achieve these objectives and to discern the changed circumstances is also what needs to be established. There's talk of telecommunications, and I think they're talking about the light guide who's just like this: Yohoo! Oh, that's great! For a long time, however, Svalbard was better connected to the Internet than to Iceland. It was really fun when I was at college studying... [a phone call.] - The Internet is much better now, even next, all the way into the Senate Hall. Happily, we have done well to remedy that situation. Iceland is now better connected than Svalbard, as far as I know. As far as I'm concerned, the roads are more important to me than the oil roads. I went through all the land as a baby and enjoyed it, although ten hours of bus ride up to Snæfells had been less exciting, we were following the football car that cleared the snow, which was about three meters at once, the bus went three meters on. It was very interesting. But a continuing increase in the eco-efficiency of the country is something that I celebrate a great deal, and I hope that is given enough for that assignment. It can be better if it's enough. I've talked about this in a few of my answers, and recent losses have often been discussed with the elderly. There's been debates in the past few days at the Council. Today, the number of the elderly is highly predictable. We know just how many people are born and when they become elderly. During the 5th, the 6th, or the 1960's, larger baby epidemics appeared, in some respects, probably because fewer children died young. However, subsequent birth rates have been equal. We have just about two babies born to support a number of people outside the move and move abroad. It is not as much a change as it was back then. Today, the distribution of the crowds is becoming very similar between the elderly and the youngest. In times past, very many younger ones were, in fact, missing the progress of older ones. It was much easier. Now we need to start creating a system that works for the current age and future future prospects, which will be what all best predictors indicate about the future age of the nation. I don't see that the current system or financial contributions assume that, i.e. In the first part, policy and outlook. It's a lot of literature. If I haven't found it, I could be corrected. I'm gonna go from one subject to another. In previous talks, we'll answer what. paritaprevir The Guðlaug - god of Þór Þórðarson we talked a little about public welfare systems. I heard the answers and answers of all the senators who were here and in the side halls that the goal was, in fact, that when they arrived at the clinic or other clinics, patients didn't have to play out money to any degree. I think it's important to keep the patient out of the health care system. That's a definition. But from the patient's viewpoint, there is no difference. He gets the ministry without paying for it, i.e. He has paid for it through expenses and taxes, regardless of income. As far as the doctor is concerned, he is able to carry out his personal work, and he is able to do the same. I think it's necessary to talk about this on the right terms. When we're arguing about our own personal projects, it's important. When one arm sees that the other one's personal efforts are impossible, and the other says no, we must speak the same language so that we can understand each other. I'll go for a big one. It's transport contributions. There is an interesting text in this section of the Committee's View of more part of the budget. It discusses that for practical and effective planning for building projects to be successful, interest payments need to be reduced by paying off debts. The section's list contains so many expenses and revised income teams, but nothing about subsidies, not that I found, and here, thanks. I may not see what's right in front of my nose, and it may be that I've just overlooked the joint and it's quite good in the budget bill itself, even though it's not on the committee opinion. But I can see a change in the budget. 532 where there is a warrant for higher borrowing of $60 billion. I thought, " No, I don't want any more loans because they're paying us more interest costs. ' Priority order. Maybe it's a loan that won't be taken, it's just a loan. But a little comment on it is that if we're going to take another $60 billion loan with 10 billion leftovers on the budget, we're in less than 50. I'd like to draw attention to it and get comments on how the situation on borrowing and loaning is for the next year. Today the committee's work was being distributed on the Generals' report, and it is referred to in the Committee that the contribution should be reduced to about 13 million. K. The reason is that an agent is moving to his own house, and rent was once 13 million. The reason for a reduction of 13 million is that he no longer has to pay rent, as if there were no cost to his own housing. Of course, that's not entirely true. However, with the permission of the President, in the opinion of a board of administrations and monitoring committee, an agent had to respond to increased stress caused by a number of complaints that have gone from 300 to 500 per year, i.e. These have been increased by 40%. And... a special focus has been placed on it at the expense of other projects of agent◯, i.e. To respond to these complaints. Also, the agent has been unable to publish information on issues that have been handled, although helpful information has been available on other issues, under stress. An agent believes that there is a need to improve the information flow. In addition, an agent has simplified all court treatments, shortening letters and opinions, to ease progress. So much has been done to improve practicality or management in the process. But there are very many initiatives waiting to be made by the office. Under law, an agent is obliged to take the initiative, which he cannot afford. As a result, he asks for about 15 million. K. extra savings. The difference is 28 million. He'll lose 13 million and he won't get 15 million. [[The point is, there's a difference?]] -A vice president of the Fundament Committee... I just want to kill on the correction, too. She's still being paid off. It's made out of one another. Are you sure you're not all taking points? The correction that candidates would bring on their chests, and in some respects rightly so, is correct. They say it and I'll totally agree with it. Whether that's exactly what they promised on crown numbers and so on. Let's leave it in the middle. What I'd like to say is that those who borrowed a loan, you can argue that there is a just correction for the inflation shot. But - this is really big, but - it's so obvious that there are many others who suffered the same damage but who were not corrected. It directs us to mention students, students who have student loans. It was 8.8 billion, or something like it, that would have required correcting their loans on the same basis. Then, of course, there are tenants and really everyone else who was hurt by the inflation shot. Some of this is probably being corrected in recently made collective agreements. In other words, the increase in pay is a correction, such as the housing correction. However, students with their student loans remain, which are inflation rates and are, in fact, still in fact, renters. There's nothing here to help. I call after we finish this, let's just keep on setting things straight, but also that they're reasonable. If it is to be righteous, it must be righteous for everyone. Otherwise, it's not fair. Just for some people, it's not fair. Let's be clear. In a bill to the budget that speaks of policy and outlook, only a brief section on public shopping and electronic administration is found. Hv. paritaprevir Unnur Brá, the Konráðsdóttir of Conspira, mentioned this in her speech, and I answered briefly. It aims to achieve a total of 2◯4 billion dollars. A year's economic management in general goods and services is required but takes several years. Today, public service systems are much more than just shopping. I've been on a project that was identifying the need for a software institution that went up to about 100 million, the need for new software for projects. Since then, assignments have been added. It is very important to start as soon as possible because it bites us more and more into the ass not to solve the information technology problems that are so important in dealing with the public. For us to solve this problem, we need to focus very much on the education of those who can solve these problems. It takes knowledge to solve these matters successfully, since we know the whole story of a global software development. There are a number of disasters that have occurred there, very expensive software projects that have failed to deliver anything. There were reports a few months ago about a software company in the north that were very interesting and informative, and there is more. I saw one thing about a camp loan fund at the Committee mask of the greater part. It says, with President's permission, on page 11: Just as information from the fund goes, except for a new loan of 5,075.1 billion. K. from the beginning to the end of October, but at the same time a loan of 28.5 million is paid up. At least millions of times. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] That's the same thing here, it says 5,075.1 million, dot, and it's $24.5 billion on the other hand. So, the difference is there between 5,000 and 28. I think there's a hell of a difference between numbers. I'd like to explain the difference. Is not the amount being paid for the loans that are already on loans, in 24.5 million? K. The number? [[Up front.]] It's okay, I asked him. But it would be interesting to have more information about the situation there. These are striking numbers. It's not a six-fold difference, as they say, it's much more than a six-fold difference. Only in other matters are the budget for the current year. It is part of the National Church, the bishop of Iceland, about 370 million. K. which are explained to me, in part, to the point where church contracts are being stored, as far as I thought it would be. Because I can't find the words right now, I'll let them stand. But I wanted to compare the figure with the education system. This 370 million is the government business of Bifrost every year. Hail university, please, in one year. I think it's striking. This is for the budget now and clearly back again, and then I look at the church matters on the bill to cover 2016, where the change in church budget is about 7.5% or change from the 2014 accounting account 11.6%. That's a very tall number, 5,448 million, 5 billion there. I wanted to compare it with the health system, not necessarily in exact amounts, since there are a lot more dollars in the health system there. However, the committee's opinion showed a small table on the development of a program for health care. It speaks of budgets in 2013, 2014, 2015, and bill 2016 and makes changes. It is now said that the change from 2015 budget is 9.9%. This change in contribution to the church is 7.5%. However, neither joint accepts inflation. What interests me when I look at the previous budget is that the figures used in this article are not exactly the same. It's going to take a billion on that one. However, taking into account the rate of increase between years and inflation, and considering the amount of donations that have been raised to health each year over inflation, it is around 10% without inflation, around 6.9% with inflation. Well, that's based on 2.9% of the Habitat prices criteria. If we go to the bank prices, we are in 3.9%, as the current budget is expected to exceed inflation, an increase in health - care budgets compared to last year. If I count back the years without inflation, more important than today, then it is 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2012, and 2014. Taking into account inflation, it is 2000, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2007. This is the year when the health system has been put to better use than is being done this year. True, a higher centenarian has never been placed to the medical system, but we know how the inflation works and must expect it. We have to talk about her honestly. It is often very convenient when we are talking about crowns back and forth, especially when comparing a year. I wanted to draw attention to the fact that when it comes to the fact that there has never been more work on the health system, that is correct. In view of inflation and otherwise, it is not true. The increase has been greater than it is now, many other years. Those are my gross bills. Someone can really review them and prove that I'm wrong or that I'm right. I look forward to it. But I'm gonna call it a day.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u94	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a very good and perfunctory speech. I like to communicate with each other. A senator who has been, at least for the time I've been in contact with him on the platform, in a very serious way. However, I could not look at the figures regarding the hospital in the two seconds since he finished and I got the word. We may be able to speak specifically about contributions to health care. That's a big deal. Most of the things he mentioned were very large. All I want to do is mention the surveillance agencies. What we're trying to draw out here is that there has been no political decision to put so much effort into it. In comparison, we can talk about the health system. During the last term, the surveillance industry was greatly improved but greatly combined in the health - care system, for example. I don't know that anyone has made a political decision to do that. In accordance with the nature of the case, everyone wants more money for himself, every institution, etc. On the other hand, we need to have some perspective on this, since we are dividing money. Monitoring is very important in many areas. In some places, that is not necessary. It was all right when the radio station was here. A media board has no real role in my opinion. Hv. A senator mentioned a large issue, such as the increase in older ones. That's what we should talk about. Our society is changing greatly as a result of the growing older ones. I agree with him that we are not preparing for what we should do, one reason is that we are discussing everything else. We're not discussing the big movie. I see that there are great problems and that are happening very quickly because we don't have resources for the elderly. It has to do with the health system, perhaps. Then I'll try to get on the other show. I can't get on everything right now. About--I knew the sound would come, I thought I'd skip. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u95	A respectable president. I'm a total nerd, and I forgot the use I had in the digital form. Now it's a pyramid. In the United States alone, the decision or challenge it presents to members of Congress is discussed. Perhaps a second talk will help if she finds out, or it will catch up with someone. Among other things, it reminds us that the pensions of social security increase by 15 of you. K. from May 1, 2016, concomitant increase in minimum wage, we are talking about recovery to May. I suppose we'd like to be ready for our next May, too. I don't know if it's inside the budget bill just the way it is. It is right according to my figures that there was a decrease in health care, a very small decrease in contribution compared to the previous 2010, 2011, but generally there has been an increase over the price. There are rather obvious reasons why, if that is true. According to one senator, surveillance agencies were released at the same time. But I could feel it as an outside man then, that the surveillance agencies have failed in the wake of the collapse, and a certain calling was on the verge of furthering that industry, as it were. I think it was a political wish or a general will to make the surveillance better. But I completely agree with it. paritaprevir Guðlaugur Þór son's Þórðarson for monitoring must be highly specific and defined. I look forward to making them compromises better if they are not already.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u96	V.E.G. President. I think we want everything better, including surveillance. But then, after a collapse of 203% of the 2007 F.S.A., when the world's most anticipated financial surveillance has become available, we still see the fall of SpKef, which had repeatedly been warned of, including here in the conference hall. Money and progress are not always consistent. If life were an excel-tail and we wanted to get better results somewhere, we'd just go up and then things would be better, and then life would be simpler. It's just not like that. It applies to all things, including the health system. I don't think there was a call for raising 160% of donations to the Competent Agency. I think that's one reason we have excessive housing prices or we have a way too complicated. This institution has 1.2 billion bound to its own money, a kind of capital. Then there's an equal room. It goes up 140%. I don't know that men called for the fact that we really needed to make up for it, but we can. The pharmacist, if we were to have a simple drug system - I've had a lot of talks about it and I've done anything to simplify it - we wouldn't need so much supervision. Then there are institutions that do their part very well, such as the government's radiation defenses, which increase by 30% from 2007. I haven't heard anyone say that they're not doing their job. There's the ship's completely flat, which I think is quite exemplary. But there are other factors. Hv. A senator spoke of the public health system. You're always comparing apples and oranges. True, I don't know where the world is where there is no insurance system. Maybe it's there somewhere, but I don't know. The Norwegian system is such that we pay 80% of it with our taxes and cities around 20% from our own pocket when we enjoy our ministry. That's the rule. Then there are just some very different forms of communication, sometimes some of which are private members of the service, sometimes public companies. That's not the main thing. [[The president calls.]] In this regard, if you are going to use a private business that has been done for decades, you are turning it into basically. It is simply a matter of mere nonsense and misunderstanding. And I know why. The senator was not there.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u97	I appreciate the question. I made it a little bit, I didn't have enough time to do it, but it's nice to compare the total numbers at each institution, compare two institutions, and think about why. A prison facility that has said that it has to close prisons, unable to fulfill its role, has a capacity of 1.6 billion while Iceland's New Creation Center is paid from a government fund half a billion. I'm not telling you what the project is, I need to know the reasons why I can say something about these numbers. But evaluating them side by side says something about emphasis. For example, I find that innovation is three times less than a prison case. I'm not saying prison cases are unnecessary and should be lowered, I'm saying, no innovation. A boarding room gets nearly 2 billion, an education agency about 800 million, I thought. It's a very interesting game to play. Behind these numbers, there are always reasons we need to know. There are always goals we need to be clear. That's who we have to reason with. We might ask: Is this goal realistic or measurable? It is this coin that follows behind it; why, is it still applicable or not? Instead of running 50 million back and forth from a vague situation that now seems to be a random distribution of the budget. [[The president calls.]] It's like a money spreader. [[The president calls.]] I'm not going to overjudge it, such as. There's more to look at.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u98	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech is excellent. There were interesting comments, interesting observations, and comments. I'm not going to study the subject. I'm going to do another show. It's very difficult for me to understand Pirata's ideologies when it comes to government issues. One is expenses, but to cover expenses, we need income. I want to direct it to what? A senator explaining it to me so I understand Pirata's tax and revenue policy. I want to know, for example, if Piratars want multiple-stage income tax on individuals or one flat transparent income tax. I wondered if Piratars stress tax consumption, and if so, how. Is it worth a tax in one step or a multi-stage tax by an exception? Is it toll and transport fees or in some other way that I don't know how to mention? Then I'd also like to know how Pirantars intend to finance the social security system, i.e. Pension payments for senior citizens, disability benefits and unemployment benefits. Is that about insurance? What kind of insurance? Is it the same tax supply that is now, that is secretly the business of people? [[The president calls.]] What is the course of wisdom in this regard? Counts 'em out. A senator that is now fair enough to cover insurance? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u99	President. Thank you. A senator's question. There he deals with a general misunderstanding of Pirata's policy, where ideologies are relatively different from those of other political parties. Rather than such ideologies, we emphasize methodology. We are not thinking that this is the way it should be done. Rather, it's a methodology that is about how we get ideas together on the best solution that we can then discuss individually and decide together whether the solution is practical or not. The idea of design on which we work is on the stage three times. These may include financial solutions, technical solutions, and solutions to people. It is very common for people to start by asking: " What is practical? It may well be that none of the practical solutions are truly good. There may be lots of technical solutions, but this does not mean that there are solutions that anyone will use. We must first ask ourselves, " How does the system work for people? ' That's the opening point we start at. The next level at Pirates is often technical. For each and every detail here, there's not a single answer. The answers gradually appear in cooperation with other categories, the general public, and have not gone through a special process for us. Tolllar, for example, though: Get your tolls off. Yoo-hoo, that's great! [[The president calls.]] No matter what step it is or what it is, if the cause comes from there, it is part of the solution. [[The president calls.]] I don't think I'll be there now, but maybe later. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u100	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Now it may be that the reason why I have trouble understanding this methodology of Pirata, or design solutions, or what it is, is my age, and only the fact that I have crazy blood in my blood vessels, but I didn't understand or down in my answer, unfortunately. Hv. There must have been a senator who went through the tactics and designs of the government's income system. It is not enough to come up and consider the expenses if people have not gone through how the government's income system is the best and the most reasonable. There must be a Pirata table after all this time how best to tax or whether to tax general wages and how to do so. Should this be done in multi-stage tax or a single tax paid evenly by all? Should I be a tax-free step? Is the tax limit to lower now? Similarly, in terms of the cost tax, it cannot be when the largest government revenue is, which is to finance what we are then arguing about in the government's expenses. I just can't believe that Piratars didn't go through the methodology and design solutions to the value of the tax system or whether it should be replaced by some other suitable solutions to the public. That's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u101	President. The foundation of the ideologies we're working on is closer to the community. The current government drop of funding is taxation that goes to the state and is then assigned to a rural society. There should be a little in the other direction, so rural society could earn its own money to finance its own work. For example, rural society is being reassigned by an individual income tax but not by a company's income tax. They don't get part of the merit tax. That change could finance quite a number of local projects. At the moment, rural society receives only from the pay and real estates of an enterprise in their territory. We're not saying, let's just dump the system and get something completely new. We want changes in steps. We take one step at a time to see if this is in the direction of the goals we pursue. Given the current situation, we will check if it will work. If that's okay, there's no need to change anything. If there are some shortcomings, we'll think of solutions, choose between them, take steps in that direction, and see if these changes are in the direction of goals or not. Otherwise, we simply step back and take another step. We want to do a detailed study of the problems and solutions we face. [[The president calls.]] There is no big revolution in tax ideologies and so forth. [[The president calls.]] We are preaching how we can change our community without actually exercising authority. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u102	A respectable president. I feel right, because there's been a lot of discussion under this team, to tell us that we had an open meeting at the moment. It's a budget with senior spokesellers and disability. I want to use this opportunity to thank their representatives for their extremely good and clear presentation of their views. It is clear that there are many projects ahead of us. There were much more than just the material involved, for the projects are many, but surely other projects are urgent. For example, they deal with the housing of this group, especially the poorer parts of these groups, which are very different, their housing in Reykjavík, and various other facilities. The government's new decisions have put 22.5 billion in pension pay. An increase in this ideal period of about 55 billion is already all ahead of us - much of the work that we need to take into consideration. [[The president calls.]] I give special attention to Pétur Blöndalur Vergal's committee, which has already done a good job, but we have to complete this project along with other factors. I hope we have the wisdom to discuss these important matters carefully and objectively, since these are matters that deserve it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u103	Madam President. We'll discuss the budget here for 2016. There are many things involved. I'm gonna have a little access to my case before I'm on some special team. We're in 2nd. to deal with the current budget. It's not like there's a budget in there that can be cried out for. We know that the present government has a completely different situation than the previous government, which followed the economic collapse. It would now have been possible for a large number of cases to be injected during the last term. I would have thought it was time for the community infrastructure and that the welfare system would be handled really well. But it's not for leaving. The number of cases is starving, for example in the community and application programme, the support of broken - down areas is reduced, the average of study costs is reduced, and there is still a great lack of balance of energy costs in the country. Although this project has been fully financed, there is still a total of 200 to 300 million behind it. K. every year for complete recovery. Tourists'budget is too small for the large increase in tourists coming to the country. The domestic affairs are still unsolved, and the government does not finally agree on how to deal with the big housing challenges that are facing, especially for young people and for the less - afforded ones. Often it is forgotten that many areas in the country also face a lack of housing. In many places, the problem is that people who want to live in the country have no housing, and no one is trusting to build the price of property as soon as real - estate estimates are available. This class does not provide complete solutions. It is now the middle of the third year of this government, and there are far too little money visible on these projects yet. The cost of growth is cut down to 1.5 billion, and child - welfare does not come with price. The birth stock is starving. But the government continues to feed on the park with more material and to reduce the taxes. Then you ask: Who will be involved in the welfare system and commitment into the future if our generation is not going to contribute to the subject and reason? Just working against the gradual exchange of the tax system and putting it down in steps much more reasonable to them. No doubt the percentages in the step - apart tax system that had come during the last terms could have been revised, such as the interval between steps. But the decrease in steps is just one thing; there is less tax on the more abundant ones. The government has since removed taxes as many as 45 billion in the form of taxes, wealth taxes, energy taxes, hunting bills, markets, tolls that take effect at this next year in two courses. But let us not forget that this government increased the food tax so much, from 7% to 11%. There are a variety of health and educational costs in the general population. It is an old man's game to speak for little taxes, but it is a burden to the public with direct services that are most devastating to them. The amount of insurance paid is very low, but the reduction would have contributed to the growth of jobs and should reduce the rate of unemployment. Right men often talk about how the people should take their own income and that their taxes are of evil things. But I believe that the people of the country have a requirement for equalizing, for intensive health and education systems, good transportation, and good communication. That's what it takes. There is also the matter now at the top, that the pay of sensibilities is followed by pay from sensibilities to pay in the country to ensure safety. If that is to be the case, everyone must contribute to a common fund and require that he give the tax money to the people who are already in great numbers and who wait for relief. We could have done much about 45 billion things since that government, which it has abandoned in various ways. These include the construction of the Hospital and other national contracts, e.g. meeting the improved ideals of the alco- and micro-energy pensioners and the community's infrastructure. But this government has chosen to work primarily with them materially more than leave behind those less fortunate. They're sitting behind, and that's just a fact. At the top of this scenario, there has been injustice in the fact that the government is going to understand elderly ones and desperate ones when all other groups of society have been rewarded in one way or another. This year's average hearts rise is about 14%. It stands to increase the rate of sensibilities and disability during the coming year by 9.7%, but this is, of course, in no way consistent with what others have received and will not recover, as others have received, and should be back again on May 1, with similar increases in the country's lowest salary and minimum wage, or up to the year 2018, when the lowest wage in the country should be up to 300 you. A k., which is not the amount that humans jump over but is certainly successful. It is amazing how the government allows itself to mislead the discussion in this matter. These groups have been added so much from the time the government began. In this regard, it is all picked up and said that the 23 billion have been added, that people are now merely to be content with it, and that they are feeling much better with their 1803/490s. K. per month. Everyone knows that the group of paintings has received that amount when everything is picked out of all the bits associated with this suit. The increases that have taken place since this government began are about 17.1%. That's what I'm talking about. It's a known trick to play with numbers and fool back and forth. I know that well, I was in charge of a labor union on West Coast for 16 years. It was a well - known game of professional drivers to deceive us who sat on that side of the table with a variety of numbers, and on average we should have it just brilliant. But the facts of the matter are best, and it must, of course, be discussed in human languages so that everyone understands and sees how much this pay or compensation, I call it a salary, it's the salary of the people who are making disability and the wages of the people who are 67 years old and older - aren't a decent thing for us, this society with the richest person in the world. Though we have suffered a severe shock seven years ago, we are once again taking root and can certainly afford to do well with these groups, not allowing them to drift back or to let society's exchanges grow, as is now going. This game is an ugly game. It is not appropriate for us to play with these matters when these large groups are involved. They have also answered in this regard. The facts also speak for themselves. Officials of older citizens and disability believe that the 3% increase that occurred in January 2015 is correction due to 2014 and should not be calculated as part of the human bloc of January 1, 2016. They further point out that too many of the lowest incomes have been trapped in a poverty trap that we, as a rich nation, are not to be tolerated. In fact, all the talking about donations or billions is not the main thing. Rather, it is that people can live a decent life by these types of living. Let us always remember that behind income and figures and charts and all sorts of values in excel documents are people who have the same needs as those who have hundreds of thousands a month. Neither have these groups benefited from the changes made by this government. A reduction in the first tax step would have been 1.4% instead of lowering the second level, it would have yielded a total of less than 3 minimum incomes. K. Instead, the only group of people who do less than 6 of you got 500 bucks. K. every year, but it would have been about 36 of you. K. This illustrates the focus of this government, not correcting or changing the percentage in the lowest level, but moving in the top steps of the more prosperous. Much has been said about the wickedness of the former government and the demoralizing of microorganisms, and it has suggested that the pre - government of this country was devoid of evil and wickedness. No, it wasn't. In all areas of society, extreme action had to be taken. Those who lived solely in the progress of old age and disability were spared. That pension wasn't impaired. It was protected, so let's keep it up. Yet, the number of people with income plus disability or pension and pension money were very poor, surely. But shallow pensions kept him safe during those difficult years after a collapse. He was over 190 you. K. and increased gradually up to approximately 213 points. K. It should be maintained. It has also been established here that the former government...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u104	Blow everything down as far as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u105	There were increases in the number of micro- or pension patients in the general market in 2011. But then, on June 1, 2011, the government rose in favor of a centenarian agreement made by ASI and the Association of Business Affairs. [[Up front.]] I'm glad to hear it. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir has finally taken that message.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u106	Your decisions, yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u107	Something that the present government is betraying, huh? paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir. [[Up front.]] That's the facts. Let us make it a habit to tell the truth, for it is the best. [[Up front.]] These are the facts available that can be considered. Older citizens and disability have sent out news where it is being emphasized. I refer to a summary I found online, with the permission of a president, which is an open letter from disability to a member of the board where he says, by permission of the president: It's not fair to lie and deceive, as you do. Then, with the permission of the president, the letter says: Since it is true that the benefits of social security increased by 17.1% since 2014, because it is quite clear in UNI calculations that in January 2013, the improvement was 3.9% (left administration was still in power). On January 1, 2014, they increased by 3.6% and in January 2015 by 3%. This, in the time of the present government, will only increase 6.6%, but if we record 2013, the increase is 10.5%. These are just facts that a member of the board should study and stop handling these matters in a false way. How painful it is to know that the administrative part feels that it is enough to ignore all these facts and flout people who present them, and that they will answer to the issue of wrongdoing! When we know that the consequences of the collapse that affected everyone were to be met, it goes on so indefinitely that no one could be spared in some way. Then the administrative body says that because of that, the present government does not have to improve the terms of this group and justify its own actions by falling here and having everyone sit down with its consequences. You're thinking that people can really lower this fishing rate by 7 billion from the start of this government, so you're just going to do great things about it. This is more than the amount required for elderly and poorer to receive backtraces, such as other members of the 1st May of this year. How can a person make such decisions without feeling guilty? But this is only reality. It's the right control. It sets priorities in this way for the more wealthy and those who have more, whether individuals or big companies, major projects. Its priorities have already been replaced by 44 billion taxes from its start. It is more tragic than tears, for many things could have been done with all this money. It was the meaning of a former government that left behind, putting money in the construction of community, welfare systems, Land Hospital, transport, pensioners, and disability donor, when the economy improved. [[To put...]] Then this government, with its fists up and carrying down all its social structure, works against the improvement in economy in the entire nation; it returns only to some people. [[Up front.]] As we continue our course of action, we have been seeing in recent decades, when people in the community have been directed by forwarders and independents. It's disintegrating. There's a class distinction coming into existence, which you would never have believed would be here in little Iceland. The poor grow poorer and the rich richer. Well, that's about as simple as that. You do not always have to decorate your language on such matters but are just talking about the poor becoming poorer and the rich richer. And groups such as the elderly and the poor are trapped in a poverty trap, which sucks. Next, I want to make the decision reflected in the budget bill, cutting down student values to high school. The high schools are severely affected in the country and are particularly uncomfortable with the inhabitants of the country, i.e. to mean 25 years of age and older in the book study of high school. This has turned out to be quite an event in high rates of students who have deteriorated since study. Since that decision, after 2014 and 2015 the number of higher schools has decreased by 742 students. There are about 400 of them in book studies and 242 in engineering and other industry. It is striking and shows the consequences of what we in our government stand for and for the high school directors. The secondary schools have been building ambitious studies, telecommunications, local studies, distribution studies. It's all played well together. When they are hit, they have to cut down and reduce their student values so that they cannot take students from 25 years of age and older into book studies, have consequences, and perform their schools for cleaning. The side effect is that the distance gets weaker, the study becomes weaker, and school is much more difficult to offer. The result is the weakness of the settlements. People who had planned to go back to study, who have temporarily been unable to continue and complete advanced education for some of the reasons that happen and go on, have no chance but to move from their homes and attend expensive private schools in the capital area with the cost. Not all have money to tear away from home, perhaps to have a family, and to rent homes that are not now available in the capital area and that are expensive, as well as to pay a private school to complete higher education in their hometowns. But this is only the reality. Because of what? Ásmundur Daðason have to say that I don't understand how the people of the country can have this offer. I just don't get it. During the last term, there was no spirit, so they jumped off the throne in the shout of zeal for being wronged there. But now that the economy has improved, and I would think that the local council members would fight to get their money on the land, they seem to put everything ahead of them. In order to keep their face, however, they have managed to get some small money into a change proposal to try to alleviate the suffering of the remaining voters in their chosen terms. I can't believe that they won't try to make changes in these things and stop them from attending high school in the country, to limit 25 years of age and older to attending school in their hometowns. These are the people who have graduated from high school even though they are 25 years old and then continue to go to a university of telecommunications that has built up in these places. This has resulted in the growth of the population. More often than not, such ones have studied as teachers and nurses. The total number of people who have completed their studies because of the opportunity to continue in school and live in their own homes, and they have done their best to the country. I think everyone knows, that they don't have to tell people. But are people really going to stop these people from coming up, so that all of this is turning on a worse course? Aren't people going to listen to the heads of high school or the national part of the world or to anyone who has warned of the serious consequences of such cuts against high school education? There was a little Colombian last night. paritaprevir Haraldur Benediktsson said that transport conditions could not be put on a large scale, for the State had to contribute so much money to raise $33 billion. So if the government needs to contribute money to the pay raise, such as the general labour market, should transportation in the country be starving? Do we expect to have something run out here and south, like that pick that's in the motion of changing? When are humans due for a transportation program? Is it not expected that transport plans will be put forward with some ambition for the country? We get here to land an enormous number of tourists, who also make a lot of currency money, 340 billion at least. Would it not be proper to look at it in this context rather than complain about the State's promotions and say that this is why people cannot go into the structure of their transportation in the land, looking more closely at the high incomes that result from the growing number of tourists and making use of that class? It is also atrocious to look forward to the starving way of the tourist market and then some money to be made up of to make up for it, but it is all too late for those who have to prepare and apply for and organize their community's affairs and for the rest of the money they bring. The government is all over the transport sector. That's why I was amazed. paritaprevir Ásmundur Daðason Daledon burst out here yesterday and acted as if some of the country's settlements were being submitted. Of course, that is not the way to talk about it. You may be able to speak that way without having the content or content of it. But the budget itself and the numbers tell their story. No further witness is needed. The emperor doesn't have any clothes on. It's kind of funny that the budget bill, the 672 airports, and the airport service, says: The joint budget is expected to drop by 5-56.5 million. K. absolute value from budgets of the current year There's surgery. Then come the knights of the country, my dear. Council members of a budget board, and proposals to make changes to this same team of over 400 million. K. To meet the cumulative need for construction of airports in the country and international business, a proposal is made for about 400 million dollars (U.S.) to meet the cumulative need to build up airports in the country. [[Better.]] Yes, that's what others do, that's what they do. That's what others do so much better.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u108	Not you guys.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u109	We just don't have the chance. But that's what people do better than that. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, you see, that's the good part. That's where it came from. A senator's mouth is true. That's a 400-million-million drag. K. and you can't even get that cut, that's a hundred billion. K. The same is true of other teams, such as Refusement Fund. The modifications are about 400 million. K. which is a list, and of course they remember what they get little of both, and they're grateful. But there's no transport plan, it's just a bunch of braces out and south. Such activities should not be tolerated. They're supposed to be working on professional procedures and transport plans, they're supposed to start out with the budgets rather than in somefraid because, normally, local governments come with betlistf and ask for something to save things. Then the councilmen come and beat themselves on their chests and pretend they're saving the country, and they do so much to build it up, but in reality it's just a piece of shit, and it's a bad language. Some 235 million. K. I'm going to Vega, 400 million. K. ... fora docking. A lot of people know how much it costs just a mile, and I don't know what those 235 million are. K. should be sufficient for road work. Temporary contributions to road construction in scattered areas, I don't know how many miles it'll do. That 400 million. K. Of course, there is no great work available. Then there's a telecommunication fund. Sure, I'm glad I got 200 million. K. Extra into the telecommunications fund. That's all I'm going to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u110	Oh, well.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u111	[[Up front.]] To make you happy. Councilmen of the Foreign Party, still to be left at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u112	We're 19.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u113	You won't be until the next term.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u114	What about Fatherland?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u115	What do you say?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u116	We're just going to do fine readings, left green, and we're going to check it out even better. [[Up front.]] He laughs the best he's ever to laugh. However, people also act as if they had completed the phone calls and the traffic lines of the land. The report made on the Within State Department set out plans that cost 6.2 billion. There have been some 6.2-6.6 billion, something over 6 billion. Adding 200 billion is a single intervention. K. If it had been 300 million. K. Each year this project would have taken many years. The head of the European Union said that it would end in about 2040. I wonder if he had a precise date. We can figure it out in a calm later. All right. If it comes 500 million. K. every year, the time it takes to complete this task should be reduced. Of course, it should only be completed in the next four years. These areas do not have the patience to wait for 10 to520 years.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u117	Who's talking about it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u118	Given the money there is and how much it costs, it looks. But I'm going to say as I said before, so I'm going to do something to celebrate in the chair, that I'm celebrating this 200 billion. K. It's a good thing they're coming in there. At the end, I want to mention an equation of domestic warming costs in the country. I'm completely bored with what kind of thing I'm doing. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason has spoken in this regard. He has spoken as if the equation of house - to - house heating costs in cold areas has been completed. It's just not true. This financial bill is hardly lying here, which says that it takes hundreds of millions to level the cost of house warming, both in the subsidies of house warming and the equations of electricity disposal costs. If I grab the bill, with the permission of the president, there's a comment on the payment of a house warmer: For 2015 it is estimated that from the end of 04-583 House warmers are about 1,034 billion. K. To this group, this amounts to a subsidance of the total share cost of distribution. [...] According to the Energy Agency programme, donations due to this factor are expected to be increased by over 153 billion. K. from the current level of transport and distribution of direct electrical heating, it will be fully overreached. This is what is said below: According to the Energy Agency's programme, the subsidies due to this factor are expected to be increased by 62 billion. K. consistent with changes in subsidies to direct electrical heating. In terms of the interpolation costs, it is said that, as a result, a contribution to the team needs to be increased by 65 billion. K. This year for the full cost of electricity distribution. [[The president calls.]] So it's just the facts that people have to swallow, and I wanted it to go a lot faster. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u119	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. A candidate for a very good and meaningful speech considered key aspects of the budget. Perhaps it was not surprising that she focused on some of the country's settlements. Today, I am a city of Reykjavík, and I have not traveled far and wide throughout the country as far as I can. Senator. I went to the West in the fall, and I was simply shocked because the roads had not been made up for 50 years, apparently. No doubt these are the worst roads I've ever driven, and now I've driven to the Caucasus Mountains, where nothing has been done for 60 years. It was better than the road between Isafjörður and Patrek. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the council what she believes is needed to get the road system, especially on the West, to be acceptable and to make sure that monotonies do not remain there as described in the chapters. What does that count? A senator need to do so? Also, I'd like to hear the attitude of that guy. A senator's proposal to change the share of the Agency's agent, that 13 million of the Agency's revenues fall because of the intention of saying that this is a rent cost, but he does not consider the increased cost of living in his own house. What do you think? A senator that is being weighed on the financial independence of the Allied emissary?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u120	Madam President. I'm very serious about the job of a U.S. Marshal. His work is of utmost importance. I know one example I heard today, since the Generals' agent had an effect on returning to the decision-making committee's conclusions regarding the payment of property loans in the government's operation. Thus, the government agent of the Generals has tremendous implications. It is not good to know that this office is not to be cut down. Of course, we should protect it. Regarding the roads and how I anticipate the price of building. We know that certain chapters are being asked for far and wide throughout the country and, of course, very large chapters on the West will be permanently broken. Many of them are horse trouble, and it may be good for senators to recognize that the roads, e.g. in the West, worse than in the Caucasus. I used to go through the Carpathian mountains in Romania at the age of 15. At that time, they were roads of malaria. You can figure it out if you want to how long ago it's been. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] That's it. I think we should make an effort to finish this road. That's why I'm waiting for a transportation plan. I'm waiting to see that you're going to park a road like that over Daring Bears, drill Animal Straits, and complete your projects in Bardrun County. It may be noted that the largest project done over the past few years is now being completed in a road construction process taken after the collapse of the previous government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u121	A respectable president. I thank a senator for that answer. It is, of course, very serious to consider the financial independence of the Generals, for this is one of the largest and strongest agencies of the General Assembly. In my section, we're asking for 15 million. K. The addition of funds to the emissary of the Alduke's agent so that an agent can take the initiative. As the situation is now, as expressed in the opinion of the management and monitoring committee on the Generals' report before 2014, he is not able to take part in initiative studies where he has no time with the employee he has. The minority would want to strengthen an agent by 15 million in order to do more initiative research. This will not change the fact that we are taking 13 million without meeting the day - to - day business of having our own housing. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's, of course, very serious.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u122	Madam President. It's very serious. I completely agree with that. We are sorely in need of supervision and initiative in the hands of the Allied agent. The right government has always talked about this surveillance industry. Who was the most vulnerable to the surveillance program, the F.O.S., and other things, before a crash? It had been the right government for the years ahead. That's why it's very dangerous. A democratic society is to be a guardian of the Generals, who at the time of the establishment of the office, showed that there was a real need for this. These initiatives of the office are also of great importance as the maintenance and monitoring role and duty of the lawgiver. I trust that in the memory of our proposals, we will turn the office to 15 million, we will be accepted. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u123	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Because of what? I'd like to say that I thought it was a pretty negative speech for a member of the management board. A senator, to review it as a matter of course. At the end of her talk, a senator spoke of doing nothing for the country, and then, at the end of her talk, she recited some of the things being done. These include airports, 400 million. These include rural areas, both in one joint and in more teams, 400 to 1,500 million. Communication, 200 million, by now 500 million. National health institutions and residences, 175 million There are 400 million marine waters and many other projects in the country that are now at the heart of more than 500 to 1,000 million. This is a total of 3 billion that a budget puts in between discussions. Of course, it would be possible to spend a lot of time and actually need a special speech in correcting much of the misinformation presented in a sermon. Senator. But I'm just gonna take two things if I'm working time. First of all, "wow." A senator who claims that a financial committee is not doing anything in national airports and quotes the bill that is absolutely correct. Last year there were 516 million in airports. Of these, 500 came from the budget. That was a suggestion. A senator standing here in this public talk now moved, putting 500 million in an airport last year, asking Istavia to make money. And that's right, it wasn't in the bill when it came right now. But a financial committee puts funding back into this airport. So there was a misunderstanding. Senator on this team. Then, the fiber optics and communications. When it was said that the members of the council were talking about the ring - up cables, they were confused. A senator, very combined with concepts. The missing fiber - optic circuit has been dialed. This was done on Stroovens during the summer, from Dala County to Stykisholm. There are all other things besides a light-leading pool all over the country. [[The president calls.]] They're working on it too. Of course, it is of utmost importance when a public speaker expresses himself that, first of all, they handle things correctly and define things as they are, but not just a proper president, as was done in such an excessive measure. Senator. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u124	Madam President. Yes, yes, it can be called faddlers, what is said in this chair. That's probably true of a lot of senators who come here. But what I'm saying about high speed connection is that the report published by the State Department is two o'clock. Staff members, expected that high - speed connections to all citizens in the areas outside the market would cost more than 6 billion. What I'm saying is that the 200 million that are now being added on their own are not enough to complete this project unless the next 10, 15, 20 years. We have nothing to be sure of next year's comparable sum. That's just the reality. I'm not blundering about this, I'm worrying about it. Granted, steps are being taken in the right direction. That's good. But these steps are chicken steps. A statement has to be made that over the next four years, a maximum of five years, men complete this project. The need is great. About transport in general. To be picking 100 million here and 400 million there, that's in the big picture just a coin of small value. These are funds that could be included in some medium-sized company and not with the government. Of course, the lack of understanding of transport in the country is absolute. These horse roads are wide and wide in the land that resembles treading in the Caucasus mountains is simply not acceptable. There are about 23 billion transports on the bill, that's just embarrassing. When you go to the national body and meet with the officers of Vega, they just have their tears in their eyes. They watch it cut into a snowstorm and do not know how to do it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u125	A respectable president. Yes, I was especially pleased with the opposite. A senator admitted that in certain important matters, it was really a falsifier. Of course, with the fiber - optic connection and the high - speed connection that the present government is working for, it is a special reason for happiness. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir is beginning to drift toward a faster pace of government policy because the present government has such a policy for the nation's light-leading system. It was initiated by the current government and was the policy of the current government before the last election. Hv. A senator must also study what has been presented in the case of the senators who have reported the report and have been doing now on the project. It may be possible to solve this in a more practical way than has been done. This has been noted in the discussions. It has been observed among those who were assigned to that group. And it will be the present government that will work on the project, to light-leading the country. I'm particularly happy that the government and the what. A senator has begun running after the board of directors in this regard. But there could have been a number of other factors mentioned in the Sermon on the Mount. A senator who did not pass an opinion and was not really correct. [[The president calls.]] I'm sorry, but I don't have time for that short answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u126	Madam President. I'm not surprised. A senator has not trusted in the transportation talk, and he hides behind some faddlers, acceptance, and so forth. You will be able to write just articles in paper and trace what you are doing, and you will be able to write them down and advance the truth in that regard. The present government has everything to do with transportation, that is, the cold reality. National Parliamenters must be hurt by this and are trying to persuade voters that there is now some good thing, little here and little there, in the process of making changes they should be pleased with. But I ask why. A senator, for example, about the Tingeys Airport. I'd like to mention one thing there. It's a disgrace that it's the only reserve airport for Isafjörður. He's just blown away. Where's the ambition? It is dwindled like many others in the country and in the West, and in other parts of the country. You should start trying to do your homework a little better. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u127	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this speech. I thought during a period of time it was in the wrong financial bill, since it meant black gallop in all the time, it was all black ahead, and this government was no match. [[Up front.]] I simply thought she was describing her last term. It is quite remarkable that the senator did not celebrate - yes, she only rejoiced. She made a special point of saying so. There was one positive point in her entire speech. It's a national focus, the adjustment proposals we have in this proposal from the greater part of the country, go a long way out into the country. For example, it is being built up in its own ideal, and the airport is being strengthened - the conductor is being strengthened. And somehow it's impossible. Yeah, yeah, yeah. A senator could praise the fiber - optic project, but that was not all. It is said that we do not fulfill our law regarding the increase in the improvement in pensioners and disability. I'm just going to study the truth on that subject. It was so that the last government broke into disability improvements and the benefits of pensioners without flashing their eyes during the last term. Then the senator said they brought money and put it in the system. It was when the government was up to the wall. After a husk deal was made and protested in the East, the lowest had been made by some alms. These are the very dear people, the respectable president, who stands here and how bad the present government is. The present government has placed over 20 billion in this category since its start in only two and a half years. [[The president calls.]] This is not acceptable, and there is no longer a demand for this language.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u128	Madam President. You're right about what you're doing. A senator that it is not acceptable to treat senior citizens and disability in this country. A 23 billion increase doesn't tell the whole story. It is summarised in a list of microbelets that have written on these cases that the case of the present government is a disgrace. It is specifically stated that in 2011, the government that was then in power, a centenarianly enlarged compensation, comparable to that of ASI and the firms of industry. [[Up front.]] The increase that became 2013, 3.9%, was in the time of the former government. Pills have only been increased 1 January 2014 by 3.6% and in January 2015 by 3%. This makes a 6.6% rise in the history of the current government. If we also take up the increase in 2013, it is 10.5%. These are things, and men are blundering, so we use that word. The increase that occurred today in January 3%, was prior to 2014. Of course, poorer and old alike have the right to rise as well as to other members of the country. You cannot fight forever with 1 percent and billions of people out and south. People who live on 190. K. During a month, none of these numbers are available. It doesn't matter. They do not buy food for that amount, nor do they rent houses for it, nor do they feed and dress their children. [[The president calls.]] Well, that's the way it is. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u129	A respectable president. It's the strangest combination soup I've ever heard. I think it's a responsibility for members of Congress to stand up in this chair and actually lie on the face of the rest of us. This is wrong. By the time this government began, the benefits were immediately improved, in June 2013. There's nothing true about these increases, but I forgive the senator because she's reading some blog transactions in the Senate room while the evidence is available in the Senate papers. [[Up front.]] But it's not true. You can't accept this. And then I'm going to point out, a respectable president, the twin in the categories that ruled the country during the last term. It speaks of the government as surrendering income. It's quite an excellent table on page 8 of the Committee branch office for the Left Green on the budget. It shows that when the good people were in the government, they were about to go to the cost of fishing in 2016. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. They have the same numbers we're setting up for 2016. This isn't an acceptable statement.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u130	Madam President. I understand why. A senator does not feel comfortable, in effect, getting the entire society against him. The society and the people in this country are fighting the GP and the disability pensioner for the fact that they are the same as the rest of society. They have nothing to do with these eternal statistics and the comparison between the current government and the former government. We know that benefits on employment and pension income were impaired. They were reduced. But basic biofuels were spent, over 190 thousand in stages. [[That's wrong.]] [[Up front.]] Protected. The present government has not done what it should have done; rather, it has given up on one 7 billion dollars since it took over, and 45 billion in all its taxes. [[The president calls.]] [[Foreground: Tell the truth.]] The government should be ashamed. [[Foreground: Tell the truth.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u131	Madam President. Hv. Last night, the vice president of the budget committee explained that it was desirable for people to try to discuss the big picture in this financial bill, and that's what I intend to do. I'm not gonna spend much of my time on some individual financial resources here, although it was certainly needed. Maybe you do that in a second talk. It doesn't change the fact that I'm really worried about individual teams, to form in my own district, where I know well and, unfortunately, I don't see that more of the legal committees are planning in any way to respond to requests to form a Brequilt on the basic interest issues of the small community that are fighting for the right of their position after a very difficult year. [[The point is, what community?]] For example, I cannot see that a large proportion of the legal committee does so. [[Up front.]] The same could be said of Deepavog, who is trying to get his weapons after the shock that occurred when the Visar took her whole operation. There is nothing to do with counter measures in the interests of the communities that are now seriously affected by the Russian embellishment of commerce, and thus it would continue to be counted. If only some committees make up more of the money committee, which is quite a book because they have lists and explain all the adjustments. The very text of this illustration is not very long, but it is interesting. I'm gonna stop there in a few places. In the first page, the larger portion of 4. mg, by permission of the President: The ◯ The more part points to a cumulative need forinvestment in infrastructure, such as transport, and a change in population age composition, requiring increased expenses for aging services. It also puts less emphasis on contributions to university than in the countries we prefer to compare with. This calls for priorities.◯ That's an excellent text. But then what? Then where does this take place in the emphasis of the greater part? I'm sorry. It continues to be a starving policy for investments in the interior. There is nothing specifically suggested to meet the changed age of the nation. There's no deposit on future pension bonds, and the colleges get virtually no corrections, very little. At a minimum, they say the college community I've talked to, would have to double the amount of money that the college now receive, most of them tens of millions. The above - mentioned opinion is of interest in other places. On page 18. For example, 2 is a table for the development of the product between years and changes from the bill that reduces the small share of the bill so that it goes down to 10.7 billion according to the Committee opinion. I'll find out later when I discuss the big picture in terms of government and economic management. On page 18. 4 is a very interesting text about development aid, which I thought we had agreed to rather call evolutionary cooperation, except obviously no more of a legal body. It says: In accordance with policy measures in recent years, contributions to development have been greatly increased. I thought it was quite the opposite, in line with an unsupervised policy, not at the General's resolution there, in the last term, that all but one of the halls would vote and not even suggest that the current foreign minister's policies were submitted but could not be satisfied because it meant to increase the rate of development cooperation to 0.23% of GDP, but they will now remain unchanged, 0.21%, for three years. It's not like they're the big ones. That doesn't mean they're up. It is a simple exit to talk about that although the growth of the land production is thus increasing the donations because the only validated criteria on it are the international criteria for the proportion of GDP. There we are far from fulfilling our duties about 0.7% on the part of the government, and therefore this is a shocking text. You sometimes ask yourself, President, Can you sign any statements about anything? Is it no problem to argue that large contributions from Iceland are being made to development, which is here called the old - time development aid, when they remain the same as the proportion of GDP? It is the accepted standard. On page 18. 7 discusses transport contributions. This is actually done so that practical and effective plans for building plans can be met primarily by reducing the financial funds and thus paying off his debt. In the second place of this committee article, it is recognized that debt is not being paid off. Does it mean, then, that there will be no improvement in transport, no more efforts to do so until any future time? Is that what they're saying? Yes, I wouldn't be surprised because it is in accordance with the suggestion that a financial program that the Minister of finance received here was the last of us, assuming that the government's investment levels remain unchanged, not increasing by a single amount until 2019. I'm not sure that everyone has realized the declaration contained in the budget and here in the Committee. It is being said to the people: There will be nothing to be done on roads beyond what is currently going on, the currently starving policy until after 2019 C.E. I think there's a lot of news, for example, for the members of the states from the country to return to their districts. However, it is recognized in the text that by means of humble donations decades will improve road repairs and provide appropriate transportation. It is fine that the majority are aware of this, recognize that it will take decades, but that is what is being offered. So it is surprising that more parts of the budget board are recommended to be considered the benefits of breaking up without significant projects, possibly without changing the maximum speed, to speed up the maximum improved transport. Well, the majority of the legal committees are not relevant. [[Top of the line: Nothing.]] Will more of the legal committee take on the design of the road system for the road generation and give discounts for making roads designed in harmony with modern standards for safety and the like? [[Up front.]] You'd think so, wouldn't you? It's a challenge, then, to offer another class road. A greater proportion of the legal committee take the lead in this work and the expected design of the bodies. It is not even a transportation committee that is involved in this matter but more of the legal committee. On page 18. 12 is starting to explain the changes made to the bill that most of the cell is moving, and I'm staying there at 00-205 conducted at General County. There, more than a portion of the legal committee has entered perishable text. By permission of the president, we say: ▪ When preparing a project, the plans for building in the General Assembly shall be taken into consideration in 1918, as set out by the former State superintendent of Samúelsson's God, the former superintendent, and the plans for memorial events related to the coming anniversary of Iceland's sovereign year. A greater proportion of the legal committee or others on his behalf are responsible, since he is a joint member of the committee's committee, inserted this fine sentence. Now I know that this was not accompanied by the government's proposals to a financial committee, where the II Parliament's building plans were granted payment in accordance with the wishes of the Presidency Committee, that the government had in its behalf the Commission's wishes for financing, including preparation of new construction plans. There was no such thing in explanations of the Ministry of Treasures on behalf of the government. I know about that. No, it's more of a budget or someone in a town who's going to put it in. This is the custody of the International Presidency Committee. This preparation has taken place, and it is the Council's presiding committee. There was no word to discuss this matter with the Council's Committee for Presidency, or the President of the Generals. I'm sure they're planning a big part of the budget. There are a lot of work between members of the council, planning to turn some of these conditions into this aura, which, in fact, are smaller than the prime committee asked for, 75 million instead of 100, which, of course, will be enough to trigger the design contest that the prime committee has been preparing in agreement with the State's Commission. [[Up front.]] It's only clear that on the Presidency Committee, there has never even been a discussion of gratifying this design competition to something of this kind. There the usual terms will be on the move to protect the environment and conditions on the construction site, and that will not be the case. In this regard, nearly 100 years of age will not be referred to as the God - fearing Guðjón of Samúelsson, with all due respect to him, for their child's plans. That house was to rise in a completely different place, belonging to almost the second century C.E. and literally as well. As far as I know, on the Presidency Committee, it is a perfect agreement to ignore this text of the chairman of the budget committee. I suspect that this is where the chief of staff is located, perhaps with the support of some party brothers, such as the wind. 3.m. Witchest. , and then it's going to be the most difficult. Prime Minister in this regard. I also make comments at 00-212, where, suddenly, 4 million are being moved. K. a contribution to the 100th anniversary of the Women's Amendment Court from the General and to the Equal Opportunities Fund. This is not in line with the preparation and decisions made by the prime committee and then the Commission of the birthday. It was then assumed that this would be an independent budget force for five years, 4 million a year, and that it would not mix anything with - so it came in the bill. [[The point is, why didn't it come on the bill?]] The majority of the items are here for transport, change of proposal by a new legal explanation. [[For example: This is a modification proposal.]] Has this been discussed with the Board of Equal Opportunities? Is this a fund plan? Has this been discussed with the people I don't know better than I have concluded that the writing involved has been signed? [[Get in the front of it.]] You need to be careful whether the Allied is signed on grounds other than those proposed. I'm just mentioning what, of course, would have had to be considered in this case before people throw in such adjustments. [[For example, consider: Who is the secretary?]] It's not a work ethic. [[For example, consider: Who is the secretary?]] Well, maybe. The chairman of the legal committee came up here and answered these questions? Did this agreement have to do with the Board of Equal Opportunities? Have the commitments of the council been reviewed, and have they considered the basis for these plans to be part of the celebration of birthdays, the counsel of selected members, historians, and other such factors, to care for these historical documents as part of the celebration of this milestone? I'm not going to go out there and answer that noise. Chairman of the budget board. I'm asking about a business venture, and the basis for a case that may not seem very important to some people. Of course, it's a long time. A senator reading into it something different, as if we hear in the unsettled forwards. There's a lot more to say about the opinion of the committee than part of the budget board, but I'm not going to get more involved in it than that. Other than that, I refer to the opinion of the Committee 2 of the budgetary Committee, where our position is highly respected. The big picture in the development of national financial issues in Iceland is that we had hoped - for support, an enormous financial problem after almost complete collapse and almost collapse of the Icelandic economy in the last months of 2008. It was certainly a complex, resulting from the collapse of the financial system resulting from huge losses that occurred in the land. It was due to an increase in expenses due to the collapse. It was inevitable to face a significant increase in the cost of unemployment, etc., but it was not least due to the failure of the state's income. The State's stocks were found to be completely impervious to the minimum use, having been spiritually weakened in the years preceding, and the State had been living on foamy bit by the thawing in an overheated economy. So the problem was enormous, and it did not stand up in landmarks. The results of 2008 state account were 217 billion. A limp at an absolute price. It was headed to 200 billion angles +/- in 2009 if nothing had been done. This was taken to work, including the mid - year budget, and measures of some 223/423 billion in six months were then transferred into law, a total of 45 billion, or so on a yearly basis. This opened the struggle to bring about the right supply of the State. This led to a fall of only 140 billion in 2009, decreased by 57 billion between years, and then in dramatic steps each year thereafter until 2013, even the removal of irregular joints. This is a graphic picture of the development of state funds during the last terms. It has become an undisputed fact because it is published by the state account and other findings that humans cannot argue about. Who since then has developed these developments? It has much to do with the economy. Economic recovery has continued, unemployment has continued to decline. The economic situation of households and businesses has improved and the ratios of debt have declined, and in many ways the economy in Iceland is returning its former strength and in some places completely. For example, this is likely to be the case with the fishing industry, which has been for decades. He has restored his own financial resources and is now doing what he was doing when he became the greatest long before a collapse, but as everyone should know, the collapse of the crash and the difficult years for the exports of the exports, his own money in Icelandic seas, and more than that. The overgrown bank sector cleared everything aside. The capital was a negative 50 billion dollars. by the end of 2008. Thus, at the end of his reign, the independent group separated from the seaside when the seabed was bankrupt. He had the reverse head position at 50 billion dollars. Well, it's best not for the first time, Mrs. President, that the Independence Party thus divorces the seabed that he pretends to be a friend beyond all. The same was true in the latter part of 1988. Then, in the fall of 1988, when the government under the Head of the Independence Party exploded and gave up. At that time, the exports were bankrupt, not just the fishing road, but more and less all the exports of the land. By then the independence party had also managed to wipe out its own money from the seabed. The government that then succeeded, the rescue regime under Steingrímur, the son of Hermannsson, had to reinvigorate the Icelandic seabed and more industrial branches, export branches. This was done by the establishment of stock and employment insurance funds, and this was done by the state's becoming a partner to all the marine resources in the country that needed assistance and new money, but it drew the limit of a 49% share of property wealth. As a result, the government gained a large amount of money in Iceland's fishing industry as much as half because the previous economic regime of the Independence Party had wiped out its own money in Icelandic fishing outlets with a stupid fast - fast policy of great inflation, which, of course, put the exporting branches under a relatively rapid rise. If this were to happen one more time in a closer future, let us not hope, then in three days it would be all. I find this a little interesting to me, Madam President, I hope the President agrees with that, because the Independence Party often speaks as if it's a very special protection of professional life, the private drivers don't have to worry about their own interests if the Independence Party has the authority, so it's so important that the Independence Party has power, and that's why there's something wrong if the Independence Party doesn't have control. However, when this is examined in a historical context on the basis of facts, looking back, it is as if in the case of the Icelandic seabed that twice in our memory, which is here with a few experiences at the council, people have faced the need to save their lives after the independent party has covered the seabed, dried up all his own money.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u132	The Independence Party?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u133	In both cases, the independent party used to take the lead, as we know. That's the situation. But now we've done well, including. Because we've had to face up to creating the exports and competitions again to viable conditions. It was successful during the last term by achieving stability in gangs and realistic gangs, not without sacrifices to the public's standard of living and to those with foreign loans, but it has guaranteed that the Icelandic real economy has appeared relatively rapidly and systematically from the ashes after being seriously ill - treated after the collapse. For this we are all glad that we are taking our weapons in this respect. Some people are going so far, including Honorable bankers, talking about blues. Of course, a common definition of good health is that when people experience the fifth economy in a series of ways that are successful. How, then, will the government succeed after the start of the present government? And what are the prospects? The watch is, if we just pay attention to the papers in front of us, to the budget bill and to the adjustment of more part of the legal committee, that the rest of the state's budget will be 10 billion dollars. Next year, it reduces half of what is expected in the budget bill. We're going backwards, but we're not going back. Here, government officials among themselves have boasted of outstanding success. This is amazing, the third year in a row without a tilt, and we're on our way, we were told here last night, but we're on the right track if the rest of the government goes down next year and goes down to zero, just because 10 billion times. of 700 billion of the government doesn't have much to do with it? It is within the margin of error, it can be smallly evicted so that it does not leak overboard. There may be some 1.3% left over from the budget. It does not reach 0.5% of GDP. And we're going backwards, but not forward. The reality is, unfortunately, if the government is taken to the base of business without irregular teams that the state is at or below zero all these three years, i.e. The two that have passed and the next thing this government is responsible for. It's just that way. Without irregular sections, the state's contribution is just at the zero of the network, not improving and the situation is very weak despite economic growth and the peace of income stocks that have been left in peace, and the poor are not giving more of it by economic fluctuations. This is a huge concern because it means there is no table for a carrier. This means that once there was a slight setback in the economy, the government fund would be in a corner. Thus, the economy simply works when it reaches the state's survival. This means, as most of the legal committees certainly admit, that we are not paying off debts. We'll subside in the same series for the third year. It's all the ambitions of this government, unfortunately. Indeed, to be reasonable, expenses have increased. That's a lot of pressure, and he's understandable. We suggest that there are areas of improvement, but the primary analysis is in the policy taken by the present government. The policy is to reduce government income, to reduce public activity. It's crystal clear. I believe that under Iceland's present circumstances, it is irresponsible and economicly dangerous because our situation is still so fragile and because the need for the more secure state is erupting on us from all directions. They recognize more of the legal committees over and over here in their lyrics and then do nothing about it. That's it. Third, economically, it is very bad that the State does not contribute to the Federal Bank in an effort to maintain a balance in the economy rather than to work against it. There is an old position when the government is handled by irresponsible forces. The late bank is publicly complaining that the government is not supporting its money policy and that it warns of unwisely scheduled taxes. Does anyone remember this? Have people ever read something similar? What is the primary outcome of the Agency's analysis of the global economic crisis and the economic error of the years before a crash? For one thing, it is the very fact that when the State was on the east, the Shellbian tried to row west. The state's stability in many ways was undermined by its unsatisfactory actions between 2002 and 2002,2003, and with a collapse, of course, the Sullabana had no control over anything. Certainly, his rational experiments can be debated by the use of economic instruments, e.g. with increasing driving growth in the age of waxing trade. This is the major concern, that we will not achieve any further success in the underlying development of the state. This is reality. This is the cold, sad reality. Hv. Senators can come up here and disagree with me, but I predict that in many people in the community who read these things is a little chill. [[Up front.]] I know that the right men will shame their own men mainly for not cutting down or for improving expenses, but they will not argue that it is an acceptable success to include the government's terms three years in a row in this government, and that they will have no further success in trusting the foundations, improving survival, can do better in the most important areas of investments and welfare, and in an effort to pay down debt, anonymous debt, but not merely put down the ratio compared to the growing wealth. Some outstanding cases have been extensive, such as the topic of Our Kingdom News. Hv. The chairman of a financial committee had this amazing statement that the government's possession was deceptive, as if it could not be put in documents and found right in that subject, and that they were the ones who had raised the radio fee and there would be nothing to cut it down, if I understood it correctly, well. A senator. The reality in these matters is very simple. In 2012, the radio charge, in the U.S. Federal Radio, was raised from 17,900 to 1,800 k. This had to do with what was then in progress for the future benefit of Kingdom News. While there was to be some restrictions on the radio advertising industry, it was to be a groundwork for sustainability of this business and for the future government radio to keep its income. So that's the figure of $1800. into a change in the law on state radio ohf., law No. 6/2007, to take care of financial arrangements in December 2011. It is then the current government that in the bill to legalize this budget for 2014, this figure certainly goes up from 18,800 to 19,400, not to the fact that the State Radio would get them money, but to raise this body of taxes by 3%, as it did the second in the bill, while approval was at the same time that the fee would be paid in 2015 to 17,800 and in 2016 to 16,400, and referred to a general explanation for that subject. It simply said that this was done to lower taxes. The issue now states whether this second stage of the decline in radio rate should be implemented at the end of the year, and it will blow up fully on Kingdom News. Is that not a relatively simple matter? Is there something that needs to be silent and confused, and is it because people don't know the story or are wrong? It's as crystal clear as anything. We are faced with the political decision to allow this further blow to strike the Kingdom News after all that tribulation. The directors of the Kingdom Radio are speaking very clearly in that regard. If that is the case, the State Radio will not be able to fulfill its legal duties, operate normally in accordance with the public radio law. In terms of an increase in the financial gains of the elderly and disability here, which, of course, has become the nature of the case, in accordance with very few days, both in terms of budgetary and current funds, it is also in my opinion a relatively simple matter to approach. The normal criteria for which the body's base height is increased in the system compared with pay development. All of a sudden, all of the government's comparison is on the merits and price development based on my opinion of the fundamental understanding that these articles there are the public security targets. It's not. It is totally clear, both in the social security and in the unemployment laws, that the criteria should be pay-wise. It certainly is. Why are there safety regulations in the Social Security Act that will never increase the benefits less than the prices? That's a safety principle. This is absolutely clear, comparison with it is deliberate misleading. It is trying to mislead people by being able to enjoy pleasure only if the compensation goes up slightly more than the prices, even if it increases much less than the wages of others in the country. It's the wrong approach. It's trying to mislead humans. It is simple to examine the development of the remuneration factor, even if it is accepted as the norm, and what elevations of these improvements have taken. It is crystal clear that an increase of 3.6% a year and 3% a year has meant that the elderly and the poor have in mind basics, income insurance, and child - care payments. It's just that way. It would take an unchanged majority of the proposed rise to date on January 1, the next to the elderly, and they would continue in an unsettled manner in a garden. That's it. This, in turn, will help us not to confuse with the other things that have been done here. Mainly, government defense has been that the previous government, which will forever be their only defense, reduced June 2009. That's right. Then they went into the Social Security Act. Everything was under. I'd been over it, we went into the budget in the middle of a year, and we had some 3,3 billion operations, that was the first major step to prevent Iceland's state fund from going bankrupt. There was nothing left to be earned, wages were reduced, and it was cut down everywhere where possible, as far as possible. It was successful to prevent the collapse of the state's funds and to bring it into balance with the present government. But that certainly took extensive and difficult action. But how were these measures implemented in the spring of 2009? They were all in the form of a income-related decline again, increasing from what was being done and backing up to what had been before 2007. For example, the money reduction rate in income insurance was made from 38.35% back to 45% as if it had been for years until people thought they were so rich in the middle of 2007, about a year before the crash, they believed they could afford to reduce it to 38.35%. That reduction was reversible, that's correct. Of course, that was one of the challenges. Certain additional revenues were included in the package, but the bases were not impaired, and the maintenance insurance relative to the strategies was increased and accompanied by prices throughout the Depression. What purpose does it serve? It protects those with no other income, guaranteeing their survival. She was up to 180. K. In 2009, this is now 224 B.C.E. Yeah, something like that. She's gonna be the worst in the world. In 2007 there had been a significant increase in unemployment improvements. They were not impaired. Insurances from both the unemployed and the disability-efficient pensioners who had to rely solely on income from these systems protected through the crisis. This is reality. But we have never denied what is a fact, and we see, yes, we've increased the money connection. In 2011, with a significant and special minimum wage contract, they, as shown here, were immediately to the group at once fully identified, so that all the bases, basic pensions, income insurance, and children's payments, increased by 8.1% on June 1, 2011. The survival insurance increased by 12 of you. K. in a month, and I guess that makes 92 of you. "K., old age and micro-energy pensioners who had full improvements received 50 of you. K. It's like a bargain in the collective agreements. The contracts were immediately submitted to this group according to the same time. It is the close comparison with what the government is now running on. The truth is, I don't know how anyone would ever think of finishing this case here before Christmas. The minimum would be, and I don't know if I should dare say this, but I'm going to do it anyway, saying, "Yes, there's a 3% rise around the year, so let's make up the difference between the 3% and the 85.910% that this should increase within the year, bring in all the agreements from May 1 or March 1 until the end of the New Year's Eve's end. That would be some grammatical standard for human efforts. Not going to do anything is a complete scandal. So third, can I ask, is it really that the situation is comparable when the government's defense is doing something in June 2009? Are they saying Iceland is in the same place? Is it? Is it some kind of defense to refer to the emergency procedures they were in to save Iceland's state funds from bankruptcy at the end of 2015? We're doing so well, aren't we? What? What kind of defense does it mean to refer to what was required of a person to do in the threatening situations of that day? To be honest, I'm surprised at how far people go in such a lawsuit. Of course, we know of the compulsion by some government officials to excuse all their actions by something that the previous government did. They're in fact the best thing to say is to become one of the most amazing things I've experienced in politics in the acute 40 years that I've been pretty much involved in politics, this inconsistency of the soul with the current rulers, over that before them was some government. It's just like the poor people wake up and fall asleep to that thought day and night, month after month, year after year. Where are you headed in these waters? Where is your ambition now? Where is your independent justification for what you're doing, but not forever, any comparison to the unsurpassing situation of Iceland during 2009? Isn't that amazing? Don't you think it's as high a lawsuit as anyone's? Well, I'll ask. Transport and settlements have been named. I could take health care, but I don't have much time for it. I'm going to go so far as to bring joy to the no-named men here to say that there certainly are several places where there are positive things, e.g. in the community, of course, putting a little more money into the optics, which everyone agrees to be a top priority. Some progress has been made in equal transport costs of electricity, and hopefully some further results are achieved in equal house - to - house heating costs in cold areas. It was evidently all arranged, and it was started during the last terms. The first step in reaching house - to - house heating costs was taken in 2012, so as to be maintained, apart from many other human activities despite difficult circumstances, such as setting up an equation of transport costs. In other areas, the government's performance is disastrous. How tragic it is that it has cut down and has virtually destroyed all the hard work that was done in the national parish projects where people hoped that the areas themselves would have a provision on their own terms of a total of 1.2 billion dollars! but you are to receive 15 million, according to the proposal of this government twice. In other words, the task was to be canceled. Then they managed to squeeze up to 100 or 140 million today, but it is not in the nose of cats, nor is it consistent with the extensive preparation of the case. School issues, both high school and university, do not allow sufficient solutions, but everything is being handled by the health - care system and especially the Hospital. Men can say everything they want because of me for the past on that subject, but this does not change the concern of the hospital managers and those best acquainted with us to say that there are 3 billion more that the Landspians can perform their proper role as a national hospital. You can't just push it aside as if it didn't matter. [[The president calls.]] That's not possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u134	A respectable president. Let's talk about it. The senator was not surprised. In short, she went out to the point. A senator in his long life has always saved everything, and always taken everything in perfect ruin, but fortunately for the nation of Iceland, we are fortunate to have had it. A senator because otherwise we wouldn't even exist. I guess we'd just be moved out of the country. I think so. It's a relief to have a seizure. A senator in the area. [[Up front.]] A respectable president. I'm gonna ask, because what? A senator here speaks very extensively about responsibility and in another place wants to have more rest and so on to a proposal he is about to change the budget and ask him about the funding because of the cost. A senator is so incredibly responsible when it comes to public financial matters. It is to be financed, among other things, by getting 4 billion out of the tax control. We've seen comparable suggestions and figures with the last government, but what? A senator would rather not talk about it or about it or about how it divorced. Rather, he would like to discuss what happened after the financial arrangements were made, how the end was at that conclusion. How's that fall? A senator would think of bringing a number of these into the air, 4 billion, on an additional tax control? Hv. A senator has called a lot for us to listen to and use the bank office. A senator knows that the figure that is inserted into financial payments is based on what the Bank Office proposes, but now it is. A senator setting only 8 billion there, speaking as if these were some new income when he finances his suggestions. I'd love to, because of what. A senator well knows these matters, that he would explain these two things to us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u135	Madam President. I completely agree with the changes the smaller part offers. I believe priorities for the most important additional tasks that we believe are needed for better attention have been very well chosen. I also stressed the need to be financed and that it is. They show financing and I think it's perfectly practical. In terms of the IRS, an tax investigator has now received information on the property of wealthy people hidden abroad. There is one potential source of possible tax returns if these data are processed, so it gives tax pay to the country on the basis of the unjust way out there and avoids taxation. We have experience with the government tax manager's campaign in cooperation with the labour market members to visit the workplace in connection with, for example, the workforce. All work, very good experience that brought more tax returns. I know. I watched it while it was going on. I know that the government tax manager is not, nor is it expected that the labour market should simply put on an even stronger effort to eliminate black occupations as possible, in tourism, industry, and elsewhere. That's what makes money. Only those visits and trips brought dozens of taxes, if not hundreds of companies, back to work. I know. So I have a optimistic view that it can collect a large amount of money. Higher hunting costs. It is in our hands to provide some kind of resource cost for energy consumption. I think these funding proposals are completely realistic. In addition, I have severely criticized how the government has relinquished a lot of money, and I don't think that it contradicts me when I speak to other emphasis on that subject. In my speech, I acknowledged the pressure and the need for additional expenses. I wasn't criticizing it because some people might want to do it, but it would be indistinguishable on my part because I accept that there is a great need in many places to increase my expenses. [[The president calls.]] The decision is about the will for income.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u136	A respectable president. These recommendations are available. Hv. A senator well knows that he will continue to receive tax control, and it has been greatly improved. What he mentioned will be considered. Why is that? A senator, who, of course, is completely involved in financing this by taking 4 of you. Millions more? He's got nothing to do with it. Why doesn't he put 5 of you? Millions? Or 8 o'clock. Millions? Or 2 Thous. Millions? There's nothing in hand with an improved IRS. No one knows better than the person who's been in the position to be the highest. Secretary of finance, like what? paritaprevir Steingrimur J. Sigfússon has certainly been. Then I also asked why. Senator on Bank County. It's interesting to know because we've had a lot of discussions about it. Hv. A senator has stressed that we use the bank office and have given long talks about it. From there is the number laid down. That's the way it works. Here's what we're gonna do. A senator saying to the Bank County, "We're not listening to you, we're gonna take here another 8 billion." [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u137	Mr. President. The financial secretary, therefore, determines what plan he will make for his budget. He's not bound by the government's Bankiscation in that matter. It is the National Bank Board that makes a decision on the payment of that company. The state is the head of its money and tenure policy. The banking department will do so only if it is directed or recommended in such matters as the secretary of finance can do so as to be a discount. [[Shouldn't she be independent?]] - Not when it comes to the owner's choice of what it is natural for an enterprise to pay for interest, what money policy and policy it is with the people. [[Up front.]] The rise of the Lands Bank is public. The national bank makes up quarterly. We know that his recovery this year is going to be similar to last year. Why, then, should he not pay similar gains? He's swollen with his own money, far above any limit. There is no need to let more of our own money pile up at the Lands Bank. That's the way it is. About tax fraud. Was not developing an analysis or predicting that it would be a 60 to 480 billion dollars. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u138	Why...?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u139	- $2,4,80 billion. [[The president calls.]] Is there 4 billion of that? [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u140	Madam President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon for his excellent speech. He came in many places and handled the important ingredients, I thought, during his review. During the last days, we have listened to the talks of the councils and read their articles on the administrative side of this section for its support in the country. It's got a lot of people, in my opinion, what they're pulling out of their fists, small amounts here and there to put patches on their cooler years. I'd like to hear a little bit more from what. A member of the Parliament how he looks at the performance of the government in regional affairs, particularly in terms of transport and communications matters, which are as we know basic factors in the development of whole communities and their status and competitiveness, and their potential for taking advantage of employment opportunities that are developing by rapidly increasing sectors such as tourism. How does this come about? A senator on sight read through the budget bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u141	Madam President. Without the fact that I've actually done a special report on it or taken it together, I can see how this bill and changing proposals are now moving toward the settlements, of course, you're immediately eyeing on certain things. In the talk earlier, I said that there was certainly an extraordinary light in the darkness, a light of tiny teeth. It is, in itself, positive that only the funds of telecommunication are added but they are far too small, it will go very slowly, unfortunately, but it is being colored there. But then we come to other factors, such as the roads, where I don't understand how people are going to make it work, and I guess that won't work. Is it not possible that the government will be driven to add money to the road codes next year, just as it is doing in these areas? I don't think it's possible this way. I don't think she'll ever get away with it. This has become a matter of working so as not to be a year - after - year policy of transportation, to be closed with completely unrealistic numbers, even to the point of winter service and maintenance, and to be forced to face reality when it comes into the budget year and exploit billions of funds. Is it the way they like it? It seems that this is what makes the government on one stage after another, the European Commission's budget for tourism, etc. I'm most worried about the roads, so I'll tell you right now. I think it's that area where we're doing the most damage we can do, that's the most harm to the future, because the road system is breaking down, that's breaking down. The farm is disappearing from the roads in large areas, and it becomes so expensive to rebuild them. Next up, I think the front line is in the parish program. Because of their high hopes, they were pleased and disappointed in their assignment, a huge disappointment has been made in the areas. This is what people want: Yes, give us the money, and let us set priorities. I believe, for example, that the performance of the small high school business is very relaxed and that they have been taught and, in general, the high school program by driving people over 25 years of age out of school, etc., unfortunately, they are much more negative than positive in this bill. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u142	Madam President. I couldn't agree more. At the end of his reply, I was going to refer to the next inquiry, i.e. The consequences of this budget management involving in saying that adults 25 years of age and older come into high school. I would have thought that it was significant that older people who are even tied to a set set of economic ties and chains, and especially women living in the country, tied to children and homes but who have had the opportunity to attend the secondary school and take advantage of them, no longer attending school, have fallen outside, 740 people have fallen out of the high school system of this decision. I would have thought this might be important, especially in the light of regional policy. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] If the senator wanted to tell us more about his vision of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u143	Madam President. At any rate, this is very different from the approach of the one in the past government when, for example, they were put on floors for the small high school to protect them from bullies in the number of students, they would never get less than a minimum budget. It was founded by a new college on the edge of the crisis on the outside of the Grinch. It was established in several new exodus areas. This was done during the last term, despite all the difficulties then. But now they're cutting it down. Today, these little and weak units are on the alert and are driving people over 25 years of age out of high school. I don't understand anything about this. True, we opened our schools, both high school and college, were unable to pay full with all new students, but we agreed to take them so that young people could use the difficult years instead of measuring the streets, transfer money from the unemployment insurance section to the education sector. That's a great gift. The present government is almost entirely in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u144	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for an interesting talk, they tend to be interesting, especially when it comes to financial matters. What was more interesting to me, as it were. A senator said that in business, there is a government fund around zero. I'd like to hear more about this, especially how the audience can understand the difference between saying, on the other hand, that now the state's budget is around zero and, on the other hand, it gives about 5 billion in plus, as far as the greater part wants to mean, is probably on another ground I hope it will. A senator can look a little better. Hv. During the last term, a senator often mentioned the dangers of extreme overexcitation. I'm very interested in hearing how you're doing. A senator looks at the situation today. Does he think he's overexcited? Does he think he has an over-exposed reaction, e.g. following the tax doctors at the wrong time or something like that? I ask because I don't hear the same warning message that you used to hear over a period of time. A senator, a warning message that turned out to be just as we all know it. The only thing to criticize is that he spent a long time defending people from paying attention to him, but they should have listened to him. I was particularly concerned about how we can provide better insight into how the state's development is, because for the audience the debate is whether we're at zero or with 5 billion or 15 billion in as well as misleading. When we look at the budget bill and go into the so - called μlino, it may be obvious, but I think it would be good if the senator could explain it a little bit better. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u145	Madam President. On the one hand, about the yield and how to measure it in the state. A very good measure of recovery is to measure on the surface of the body without the so - called irregular joints. It is possible to debate what can be exactly graded, set aside if we want to try to measure the recovery without irregular joints. Uneven joints are what? In a rough way, unexpected income transfers or payments on something that is irregular between years of age. If the lost tax requirements jump up one year, we may push them aside. If we suddenly have to pay a huge commitment to the state that we don't expect to get into the face every year, we can put it aside. We're trying to get close to measuring the underlying state survival as if it were in a balance state. There is a recovery without irregular joints, and it seems to be very close to zero in 2014, 2015, and if so, 2016. And it really is if we take aside our money, the extra pay. Shall we take them all aside? No, maybe not, but at least Half because we can't figure that out, e.g. The Land Bank pays 25, 30 billion in cost for many years in a row. We know that his profits are largely due to an update in the property collection. It will end. I'd take some of it aside. The other way would be to recommend it with the so - called eco-cluding corrected equation, to cut the economy of the state's right balance, and then I think it was also very close to zero, because we should just subtract the revenues produced by society. Then I came to the second, how serious the situation is in that respect. I put it the other day that the temperature was growing, but it wasn't on fire. What has been left with us and has caused the spell to be on the surface not yet as dangerous as it would be to others is primarily two things: a massive reduction in oil prices and raw prices, bringing us into the country lower inflation, and that is the success of the gang. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u146	A respectable president. As we know, oil prices are very hard to predict. It can swing a lot in a very short time, and you would have thought that experience would show that it can also happen when it comes to the Icelandic crown's work. I want to thank you. A senator for a good explanation. I'm also wondering what to do. A senator would do so himself if he were a minister of finance under these circumstances today, especially when it comes to the pursuit of money. Bigtime. A senator uses space to increase expenses or to pay off debts? I ask because I hear speeches, especially the highest. Secretary of finance and others, that paying off the debt of the state may also be challenging. As I understand this, and I'm not sure that I understood this correctly, it would be because it would create extra space for the state funds to spend money, but as I say, I'm not sure I understand it better. I'd appreciate it if I did. A senator might give us some advice on this subject. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u147	Madam President. Only in terms of the economy. So we can say as we were discussing the oil. Now it has dropped completely, something about 60% in shopping, the global price of oil products. It's getting really low. It is unlikely that it will go much lower in any way. In other words, the risk is on the other side. We have benefited from the reduced oil price. It's helped to keep inflation under control, it's actually got large-scale improvement in the development process, etc. The risk now is that of the other side, the price of oil may suddenly begin to rise. If so, we are not in good shape. It won't help in the assembly. The rest. What if we had kept 30 billion of the money the government has released for a table of 40 and had it left behind in the next year, it just followed us into the future as the foundation of income and the remainder of 40 billion, what should we try to do? I would recommend that we carefully increase our investment in the most important infrastructure, but there is only so much that we can do about it because of the heat in the economy. [[The president calls.]] We should use the rest in trying to pay off debt so that they do not charge in debt. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u148	A respectable president. The eviction of the Albanian families under the cover of night is a disgrace to us Icelanders and especially to the highest. Minister of state and justice. All with any sign of empathy or, with the permission of the president, cerebromedlidenhed, as said in Danish, and may better cover the term, we came this morning to see pictures of the little children and their parents being snatched off of police officers and transported like common criminals. It is on an international day of human rights. This is so pathetic that they can suffer shame for this decision. The silence of ministers and officials in the media seeking answers to this operation today will not be accepted in a silent agreement. That's for sure. Something's cloudy when it's the highest. Ministers and other head of justice and internal affairs in this country do not respond to the media and refuse to express themselves as seriously as it was here. The nature of the traders and refugees who come to Iceland needs a more effective review. It is most disturbing that officials have the right to hold on to those who receive a humanitarian visa and who are not. We can doubt that when executives of the National Institute of Iceland do their jobs, they are guided by a spirit of compassion or sympathy. And that the lives of children and families depend on the individual position of an individual official on the subject is absolutely absurd. Had the one present had that authority in her hand this morning, she would never have sent out very sick children and their families from abroad. According to Icelandic law and international agreements to which we have made a commitment, children should always enjoy the doubt. The fact that this has been done under the cover of night is pretty pathetic. The minister must respond so well to the nation's call and represent his case in this and other matters that are often associated with harsh treatment of refugees'shelters. [[Open the door, hear, hear!]] A respectable president. This fall in English a book entitled What Is the Balance? that discuss ideas as well as projects in new times. Written by deep - seated Swedish peers, it is relevant to us Icelanders today. I encourage all members of the Parliament to study it, especially members of the board of directors on budgets as well as on other committees. The book says, with the permission of the president: ▪ In a community based on equality, freedom, and solidarity, the basic ideals of peers worldwide are that all can have adequate education, and that everyone can look to their health and seek medical care if health problems arise. In order for each individual to enjoy this freedom and for all members of the community to have the same opportunity, the education and health care of the elderly must be viewed as a basic right to all citizens without regard to the economic situation. The fundamental principle of solidarity demands that we secure one another of these rights. That is exactly the principle of solidarity that should guide us politicians in my opinion. Aggression and solidarity are beautiful words that guide the handling of sheep. The power of the greater part of the budget is high when it comes to sharing from our country's common fund. We demand that those sitting in the greater part of their time make sure that they always provide access to education, health care, and safety in old age, balance, and solidarity. A respectable president. In view of what has been said here, there is good reason to fear that more of the legal committees had something other than uniform and solidarity to guide their view of the bill for budgeting in 2016. Such anger has aroused in the community that it has been a long time since. Even alleged political supporters are offended, and much now is said. Therefore, for the majority of the legal committees, there is good reason to consider reassessment of the opinions between the 2nd and 3rd. The budget. I don't believe it until I see it that they're going to leave the desperate and old - age pensioners behind and get caught in a poverty trap now that land is back to life after a lean year. It is more important than tears to realize that none of those who are now in control of the country have learned from the experiences of the past few years unless they may be better off living for those who never get enough money. Let us see that the land will not live forever. We have to make sure that everyone in this country can take a fresh dip because it's coming. We must have the solidarity and equality in the community that all of us can cope with the next dive. If you look closely at it, it may not be too far away. Words and actions have a responsibility, and we are here to consider the welfare of our fellow citizens beyond one terms. This can be difficult for politicians, certainly, for often and almost few exceptions are taking action and financing over the next election. We must not let those who are in the old age range get any further slacker. To quote the words of the bank commander of the Bank, a respectable president, we are under obligation to use this apparition to provide the interests of those who are financially worthy of a rich nation. Our country is supposed to be fine with microbubbles and pensioners. We're a rich people. We have plenty of natural resources. We've got plenty of money. We must not allow spiritual poverty to dominate our lives. A respectable president. A good health system that is readily available to all is absolutely essential to a solidarity in the land. The land hospital plays a key role, but without a powerful national hospital with well - educated staff becoming rapidly shaken from the health system. We all know the state of the buildings at the Land Hospital, and we don't have to reenact that. We're glad that a new hospital building has begun and that this old scrawl is there, thanks to the executioners. As the president of the Icelandic genetics points out in an article in the News magazine today, a hospital is much more than a house. It is about obtaining and keeping the most skilled staff available at each time and that they are given sufficient funds to care for the complex tasks they have knowledge of. It is just a ridiculous idea not to make full use of all the knowledge that our doctors and other health care professionals have. All of us are to enjoy it when we need it, regardless of our economic situation. I encourage more of the budget committee to revise the hospital's services in 2016 and to see that we are a nation among the nations. A respectable president. Hv. Chairman of the budget board and the Supreme Court. Health Ministers have announced that there should be a greater share of health care professionals in the country. As a prince, we agree with this emphasis, and it is clear to all that well - trained national health care adds access to health care and reduce unnecessary hospitalisations. I must admit, though, that I do not find the health care emphasis in the leading section's list. I can't see her place, but they're expecting 227 million. K. An additional supply for health care and health care institutions all over the country. My statistics do not make this a special point for a greater portion of the budget board. What is more, it promotes the ill - mannered belief that the current more things are being thrown away by the personalizing of the health system, thereby pushing the massafa, pardoning the language, a respectable president, a class distinction in the country. If these developments continue to grow, only those who are more productive will have the opportunity to obtain all the medical care they need when they need them. In this connection, I want to remind you once again that equations create solidarity and harmony create an equation. I want to take this opportunity to praise the highest. Minister of health and thank him for following the council decision. paritaprevir The Sigríður Ingibjörg Ingadóttir and others on the move with policies and a mental health plan until four years. V.E.G. This policy was proposed by a minister in the late autumn and is now being treated by a welfare committee. The particular plans for improving the role of mental - health health professionals, as set out in the matter of health care and the first objective of a new mental - health policy should be to integrate the activities of the State and rural society when it comes to mental - health services. It is absolutely remarkable that in 2015 we have a large part of our mental - health services in these two systems, and there's relatively little communication between them, I'll tell you. Mental disorders are in a relatively simple way to work both in the welfare of rural society and in health institutions worldwide. This is so that at times a person with spiritual problems might be able to access the welfare of his community to psychologists. Sometimes it is good to seek help at clinics. The one present is very much of the heart that the health system in cooperation with the local welfare system fosters children of mental patients. Here I shall admit that I was in a group of directors of this mental - health movement, and there I spoke to children, and I am glad to have had good cooperation with key experts in the country who have studied specifically how to reduce the risk of developing mental illness between generations. This is a big interest, for severe mental illness is the nature of their hiding and hiding. They're not what they're talking about. Children suffering from mental illness by parents or close contacts have no advocates. No one speaks their language. They can't talk about this. They cannot talk about this serious illness, which destroys a home. Hence, it is so important that a minister, a welfare committee, and a financial committee come together to implement this excellent plan for the very first. Because I'm this issue about child care that lives and grows up in the shadow of insanity, I have to say that it disappoints me, at the same time, when I'm very pleased with the initiative of a minister. paritaprevir Sigríður of Ingibjörg and of All who proposed, that the simple and inexpensive operation proposed by the management group to be started immediately in 2016 - this policy is entitled to talk about the children/Family Bridge - and would be introduced into the health, social, and educational services of health care. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ Target: To reduce the risk of mental health problems between generations by providing mental - health professionals and their families with mental disorders and to assess the need for training. To support children with psychiatric disorders according to age and development This is what the President's permission of the project says: Investment: A professional team of experts is involved by training staff for health care in the procedures required by the project. The project is defined as the responsibility of the Ministry of Health. Partners are listed: National Institutes of Education, National Experts, U.S. National Institutes, Internal Affairs, National Societyal Affairs, User Services, and Residents. According to the Parliamentary resolution of a minister now being discussed on a welfare committee, there is a measurable goal that the Family Bridge has been introduced to 70% Health Center in 2018. According to the high cost assessment of experts who considered this procedure, it is estimated to cost a total of 28.8 billion. K., i.e. training staff to talk about their children and with their children I'm sorry to see that it failed to have this project on the budget and in the members of the Committee's list of parts prior to 2016. It would have been so simple to get it in, for that is not the case. A better Christmas gift may not be possible for families suffering from mental illness because Christmas and Christmas are difficult times. It would be a pleasure to get this into the budget of 2016. I can't think of a better Christmas gift. There are also other measures that, of course, are very important. These include mental - health practices and the vital work that must be done to meet the growing need for mental - health professionals. You see, far too many people who have mental illness are trapped in a hospital. It sucks to think that a large percentage of these people can live decent lives in the community is right for them to live. They do not need so much, but they need dignity and that we talk about mental illness in a way that makes people less inclined to deal with such diseases. One factor in this policy here is just a prevention project and a mental - health project and the opening of the discussion. I encourage it to the highest. Ministers and health committees are to follow these policy strictly. It doesn't cost that much. It's about attitude. It is about our community's attitude, recognizing that there are people who are dealing with illness in the head, but so much can be corrected if we talk about it and work to open up the discussion, thus opening up the discussion about recovery. I now take up contributions to a university in the country, but an additional donation according to a committee's list of 329 million. K. which is almost all earmarked for diverse, targeted tasks. Of course, it's a joy to know that there has been a nationwide university rise and that people have moved to a university in Iceland after a collapse. But it's a concern - I'd like to have a conversation with some member of the financial committee, but I don't know where they are if they're not here - that there's no more demand for loans from Icelandic students. What causes that? That's what I wanted to talk to the chairman of a financial committee or a backup plan. According to one reference work, contributions to the Icelandic loan fund will be reduced by some 4,500 million. There's no explanation for that. I've been trying to look for an explanation for these contractions lately, but the explanation is that applications dropped. The number of applications from students in Iceland has decreased by 16% and by 7% from those attending foreign schools. Somewhere, a pot is broken in this equation. It is not natural to reduce the number of applications for college or high school support. It's not wise for society. We can say that saving is a good thing, but this tells us some story that is a result of a much bigger problem that is urgent. I think of the problem in Iceland as part of the fact that students live and are trapped in parents'homes. Then they study with a job that may provide them out of their study period. A new report published by the Ministry of Education last October provides an interesting summary of university and science in Iceland. For example, a recent report by the Norwegian Minister on higher education in the North countries explains that there are arguments that are often behind the policy of increasing the number of students who go outside for a shorter or longer period of study. Four main reasons: reasons related to education and the academic environment, cultural and social reasons, economic reasons and political reasons. The Norwegian Minister's Committee recommends that students go outside and seek study. The reasons? Students'exercise of skill contributes to the wideness of their vision and diversity. Students who return to their home after study have new knowledge in the book and explain that this is especially important in small countries, since the university systems are low, the risks of developing knowledge at home may be reduced. This is a warning for us, a respectable president. Second, there is the reason why the Norwegian Ministry Committee considers it desirable for students to go outside and seek education that a good knowledge of people of the languages and customs of other nations can have many positive, economic, and cultural benefits. Third, the Norwegian Minister's argument is that students go outside for economic reasons that the student exchange can be viewed as an investment in a economic relationship to the future and as a part of increasing the competitiveness of the country. It may also be important to attract foreign students to the country. A fourth reason given by the Norwegian Minister to support its case is that mobility policies can be considered part of the national foreign policy, i.e. a way to connect with other countries. The exchange of students can strengthen the link between lands and national understanding. In view of this, the concern, in the opinion of the above, is that applications from foreign university students have dropped by 7% since last year. A review of this fine report published by the Ministry of Education in October shows that the proportion of borrowers who were attending foreign studies in 1988 was 51% - 51% of those borrowed from the Icelandic School of Education in 1988 who studied abroad. In 2013, the proportion of borrowers from LIN who studied abroad was only 10.5%. If we look at the logic of the Norwegian Ministers Committee, I think we're in some sort of error. Instead of encouraging people and making plans for them to go to school, we add the course of the loan fund, or the lack of policy, the risk of monogamy in Icelandic society, unique in Icelandic Italy. I agree with the Council of Norwegian Ministers. That's a negative trend. Of course, at the same time, it is very enjoyable to see the growth of schools in Iceland, but my knowledge is to help people go out and return home, wanting to come home and share their knowledge with us, thus promoting an Icelandic community. A respectable president. A greater proportion of the budget budget suggests that contributions to the EU framework for education, research and technological development will increase by 190 million. K. next year. It's a technical project against the European Union. Today, at the same time as they are raising contributions to the European Union, we can participate in the foreign cooperation that is vital to our hearts, causing a disappointment in the contributions to the institutions that receive this strength have been greatly added by the sponsorship of the crown. Our weak currency thus plays science agencies, universities, national parts, and powerful research companies weeping in many respects. They have been applying for and getting very much out of the EU framework for education, research and technology. Support to Icelandic parties is only about 20 million. EUR a year. We're much less interested. This amount has cost about 100 million dollars. Insemination. K. the value of the last six months due to the sponsorship of the crown and the cost of nearly 300 million, according to the European Union's report against Euro in 2013. [[Up front.]] This, of course, affects the business and activities of relevant institutions, as I said, university and other research institutions. I know for sure, and probably all of us who stand here that these ambitious cooperation projects at foreign universities and research institutions play a vital role in well - educated Icelanders who have come home from abroad to build up knowledge companies all over the country. I'm going to point it out. The head of the Economic and Business Committee is wondering if it's an acceptable position we put in scientific research to deal with the steady loss of income due to the sponsorship of the crown and whether it is considered to be an option for the Commission to make it up to them in some way. When we're talking about 100 million. Insemination. K. During six months, that is quite a number of the standards of those with a university education. A respectable president. In this discussion of the majority opinion of the body of legal committees, national conventions have been a significant factor. The one standing here rejoices that it was decided to continue with this procedure, though I believe that there is a tremendous improvement in practices and measures to reduce the dreary economy that we see in the proposals of a greater proportion of legal committees. Now I would have liked to have the chairman of a legal committee here to have a conversation with me once again. The fact is, by means of the IPA grants, which some members of the Parliament called glass bulbs and water, happy memories, during the IPA work, for the short time Iceland was in partnership with the European Union, we were given the motivation and the opportunity to learn new work. It was fun to share in the work that took place all over the country at the time and that it inspired people. It was achieved by the best methods of known development, including with the emphasis on connecting parts of the country to the edge of a pass zone. This is the one that has been working for many years on settlements in Iceland, and indeed in Europe too, all of a sudden the expectations and joys and ideas that people were ready to perform and thought far beyond the box they had known before. At that time, the lake had a tremendous ambition for a wide variety of measures to strengthen its population throughout the country. In spite of an entirely premature break in the EU Member States, and thus the destruction of all the good tasks being planned can be said to indicate that the positive point is that the work in sectoral development has made a great improvement and that application programmes were established. I find it interesting to see at committee meetings and to make arrangements for a large amount of money to be funded in the northwestern district. Now I would very much like to add to that ideality. I can assure you that the time we were working on apartment projects, a respectable president, there were quite a number of practical suggestions and ideas. Since we're talking about member negotiations with the European Union, I reiterate that the government groups promised the nation that they would complete their membership talks and vote for their results. We have concluded that at least now we have the right to choose whether to complete the discussion. In the absence of that decision, the majority of the Generals are lying down for not only betraying their voters but all the voters of the country. I trust that he has a reputation before the end of this terms to enter the national law on whether or not to continue the business affairs of the European Union and possibly thereafter adopt the ideal currency named Euro. It's nice to tell you that just moments ago I was on my way to the United States Advertising and I didn't think I ran into that two-year-old cash outside the meeting. [[Up front.]] I don't think he had anything to do with any communities. But I think this is a message from the other side that something is about to happen to us in the United States. This 2 euros will accompany me until the next election and possibly longer. A respectable president. Now I'm going to cut my case short. In the end, I'd like to say something. I'm glad that more of the legal committee decides to put money in preparation for the design and new building under the Generals' operations, which will result in a great deal of economic control and long - term savings. But the suggestion that there will be an old copy of the Guðjón Guðjón of Samúelsson, made to be a boarding home for students at the University of Iceland, then on the upper floor of the house, is, in effect, so crazy that it's hardly a word for word. I allow myself to agree with the words of the chairman of Iceland's Arciets Association, who says on his Facebook page: ▪ Probably no car manufacturer could think of today to produce a car from its design from the beginning of the last century. Safety, appearance, technology, self-sustaining, and especially the satisfaction and well - being of drivers and passengers are very different today. In this connection, I would like to see that the first car to arrive in Iceland in 1904 was the type Claude, and according to sources, the car was a bad copy and did not make much luck. I'm telling you, there could be the fate of the new building, the ideas of a prime minister, after building a new office building for the Council after the old drawings, that'll be a bad copy, and won't make much luck. [[The president calls.]] Perhaps a prime minister should seek to obtain a hundred - year - old car to be used for six months or later and then inform the nation whether an ancient design is usually suitable for him in modern society.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u149	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir For an excellent talk, Guðjónsdóttir Margrét, the daughter of God. In many places it was, as normal as it is when a single piece of budget is covered. I want to say something. The speaker at the beginning of the talk about the Albanian family that I think we all thought about in horror today; the circumstances in which they were put and how they were dismissed from Iceland. It is quite clear that the number of e - mails received today, that this has touched the nation, and that many are offended by their sitting down on the computer and writing to us. I still want to talk to you about this. A senator in a slightly larger context, about the state of the world today. It is now that a group of people from Lebanon are arriving in the near future - I find it difficult to use the word "diversaries," I get bored with that word, but it tells me what categoria that group is being taken - and I think it's really great. But I would like to ask the senator if she believes that we can do no better when it comes to a host of refugees, perhaps more experience from today, especially those who come here on their own but not from an organized government group. I ask if we can both do better and if we should not do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u150	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. I agree with what. Senator. All of us know that we are at a turning point in the refugee business. Like other nations, we are learning the role. Many have shared in organizing the reception of the first group today. But like a dog. A member of the body correctly mentions not only portents who receive special service but also criminals who are living in constant uncertainty. It was interesting to observe Angela Merkel's reaction when she said: "Come, everybody, we welcome you. Those who run from them are so few proverbs, and that is a beautiful attitude. I think we're supposed to approach the refugee problem in offering people welcome rather than put a stone in their streets. So tragic is this display today that it is by no means impossible for any official to decide whether this fugitive will get a humanitarian asylum and not the other person. It's uncomfortable. I heard it at a meeting at the Red Cross yesterday--and it's good to get a bang. The head of a universal and educational committee who may be able to add a little bit to the story -- that the alien law is being considered, and I trust it. I'm sorry, I haven't had time to study them, but I understand they're a great improvement, that they're correct. But I really think it's a job to do for us as a community not only technically to receive a large group of refugees; we also need to train ourselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u151	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Part of my anxiety is linked to the fact that U.S. National Institutes of Iceland always seem to interpret everything as narrow as possible, not with humanity and humanity guided by it. I'd like that second one to come in on something different. Hv. In his speech, a Christian carefully considered the matter of mental health. I found it interesting and beneficial to hear it. I'd like to ask about this, i.e. With regard to elections. Now, a large part of microenergy pensioners are affected by mental illness. I'd like to ask you what. A senator who is evidently well - versed in these matters: How does living in poverty affect both children and adults? What effect does failure to have basic progress have on our mental health?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u152	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his good inquiry again. It is so with everyone that it is difficult to live in poverty. Mental illness, as I said earlier, is essentially a difficult battle. They are very common; of course, there are different stages of mental illness. What we should keep in mind is that it may be easy to live with many of them by means of relatively simple means of rocking. That is what we, the community, and the politicians should keep in mind. It is so easy to help people live with this disease. It does, however, exert tremendous influence on all who struggle with it and all who live in the environment of mental illness. It is not necessarily poverty. Of course, there is a poverty trap while mental illness is so quiet that it is true. So by talking about them, we can probably solve quite a lot of these problems.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u153	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Sadly, I missed the first part, but I entered the section where there was nothing. A senator lamented that the euro had not been successfully recorded here. I had a little interest in it. I can well understand that many have been interested in the euro and have been involved in a currency alliance some years ago before the actual breakdown of the currency alliance. Since then, a lot of things have happened. We have all read the magazines, and we have observed what has taken place and how the nations, bound by this currency alliance, have ceased to have an independent currency. Then we will see some examples of countries that have gone extremely badly out of the crisis that is now assaulting the currency alliance and that are still attacking the currency alliance. To illustrate: Greece You don't want to take that example because it's so different from Iceland. Then we can take Finland, which also holds the euro. They had amazing companies, all built up while with the Finnish target, Nokia, and a tremendously powerful industry. A truly beautiful country that has been exemplary in its economic activities and has successfully coped with the crisis. Then you compare it with Sweden, which has been given to retain its currency, is certainly in the European Union, and those in Sweden are obliged to pick up euro, but they have withdrawn it. The Poles have also drawn it. Why are these nations drawing it? Has a what? A senator could not doubt that this is a good currency alliance? The Nobel Prize economists, after one another, have condemned this currency alliance and have said it maligned and stillborn. Has a what? A senator may find a solution to the problems of the currency union?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u154	A respectable president. Thanks for asking. Senator. Of course, I agree that the euro has been a bit thought - provoking to us Europeans lately, and it has been seriously ill during the past three, four years or so. Of course, there are certain failings in the European Union, and there is evidence that a stronger central government is needed to maintain that currency. But this does not change the fact that the dollar is a very difficult currency, and when we politicians talk about government financial matters, we have to face the fact that it is extremely difficult to run a society that is going through as much swings as we always do. In itself, import is favourable at the moment. So at the moment, we may be very happy to have a dollar for an Icelandic home. Export companies are not as happy. It is difficult in many ways because income and plans were made at the beginning of the year when the euro was at $150, if I remember correctly, but are now up to $150 today, it is unfair or impossible to run a company in such an environment and can never make realistic and reliable plans. Therefore, I say we must think of the future currency someone other than the Icelandic crown. In view of the fact that most of our exports are into Europe and the European market and will remain, no matter how well it gets and goes, we will continue to do most of our business with European countries. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u155	A respectable president. I thank you for the answer, and I need to correct some misinformation that were presented in the answer to the rest of the question. The majority of Icelandic exports are not to the European Union and are not in euro. It's dollars. It's quite mixed. People have naturally been setting up in Holland and Amsterdam, and it's been counted as eviction, it's some sort of fix-up problem at the Haf living room, and I think it's been adjusted now. But what I wanted to ask, in view of the great difficulty in the currency alliance and the fact that those who have joined this currency alliance to find stability may have found stability in their inability to cope with tragedy, they get involved -- there's something wrong with the clock, or whatever. A president - unemployment is a substitute for gang swings. [[The president calls.]] The swing is taken through the labour market to increase unemployment. Is that acceptable? That there's 10% unemployment and 30% unemployment among the young? Is that the future?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u156	President. Of course, we alone are never satisfied with unemployment, for we know that work is fundamental to a good standard of living. I don't agree with what. paritaprevir Frosti, the son of Sigurjónsson, when he says that these are very desirable, to take up the peoples of euro, they face 20% of unemployment among young people. It's not the same as a sign in between. There are a number of countries with the euro where unemployment is the same as nothing at all. It's a little bit. Therefore, it is not possible to say that the same evidence is between the possession of euro and unemployment. Of course, there are other ways, such as Danir, to link their dollar to the euro, thus reducing the pace. [[The president calls.]] It could be an advantage that might be possible for us. [[The president calls.]] But the main issue is: If we do not continue to do business, we need not even consider whether we should continue to do so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u157	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. The Senator only introduced the foreign languages and affairs of immigrants here. As we know, a transnational panel has had the task of winning a bill for new foreigners. The main project, as we look at it at the Council Committee, is to create the law in such a way that we can open our country only and increase the means that we can get to Iceland and work. One of the barriers that have been made in Icelandic society to do this is the position of the unions and the unions. Based on the information I obtained, at work at the Senate Committee, the effects of these parties on the labour market are far more effective on the national legislation than in our neighboring countries. This is one of the things we need to change. Of course, there are many things we need to change, but this attitude is one of the things we need to change, if we want to live here in an open community. I just wanted to ask you what. A senator, who may come from a class that has a slightly greater connection with unions and unions than the group I work for, or at any rate, tells the story whether it agrees that everyone has to do his part in changing legislation, altering attitudes, so we can truly say that we live and work in an open and democratic society.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u158	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Unnur Konráðsdóttir Consecretsdóttir for the inquiry. I'd like to say, before you think any further, that I've been studying the affairs of refugees and refugees, and other matters, as I've heard from more than one and more than two, that the head of the General and Education Committee is well commended for the well-work of this seminar class. I've even heard that she's even in the wrong category when it comes to this group, should be better at home with my own party when it comes to this. But saying that we can never be the people who receive refugees and fugitives unless all lie down on the rivers. Happily, both the Red Cross and the City Theatre, our national television program, and many others have opened our eyes and provided access to the stories of refugees that have both come here and others in Europe. One basic factor that all refugees give is whether or not they can get a job in a new country. Right away. A senator and head of the General and Education Committee says that the unions have drawn their feet, I think it's very serious. I think it's normal that we call them responsible, and I look to them for answers, whatever it is that makes them think they're going to get caught up in these things - is the right thing I don't doubt, I don't question the Chairman's words. I feel lonely that this little nation that Iceland and I are the kind of people who are useful with new knowledge that comes with hard work and wants to be a part of the commercial world in Iceland. That's a wonderful addition.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u159	V.E.G. President. Thus, we who work and act on the ideologies of independence believe in an open and democratic society. Part of it is to welcome individuals who want to come and here will work because in the core of the Independence Party policy, belief in the individual and belief that each person should reap what he sows. It is central to independence, making it possible for those who want to open the country and make it possible for more individuals to come and work here. We also simply need more working hands. Some say that this is not the case, but it is only a fact. We need more working hands, and we are to welcome the individuals here. I realize that this is part of the independents, those who may have been on the edge of our category, who won't listen to this attitude. [[The president calls.]] They spread the rumors that we, who are right men and speak in this way, should be part of another class. Let us be careful not to agree.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u160	A respectable president. As long as it's being arranged, it's my coworker who said it was. A senator should be our party, but that's another story. The core of equal policy is equation and solidarity. Association with all, especially those who are weak. Without solidarity and without equal, there will be disunition in society. The worst thing you can think of is, those who want to come here - and we'll figure out that the masses don't really want to come here, they prefer to live somewhere else. So I think we should think much more of those who want to come here as dear guests and added to our community. I'm surprised to see that the congregations and our partnerships are a major surprise to me, and I'm disappointed if the labor movement in the country has not been willing to cooperate on this matter. I will record it at my company, which has always been close to the labor struggle and has discussed it with them. It is absolutely essential that they come to this work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u161	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a budget bill for 2016 in 2nd. A great number of talks have been held above, and many views have been prepared there. I believe that there is a need for communication, and it is of good quality, although it can be said that many times the same thing has been said and the question of whether it is heard. But good advice is rarely too often said. In this third fiscal budget, the independence party and the forwarding of the current term are heading for a third time in an incrutable government, a very pleasant fact. However, there is still some in the country about to start subsidies, and there is still a third - largest budget in the budget. Therefore, there is every reason to maintain your government spending. Now, for the most part, the increase in income that has been made in the state's funds has been used to increase donations for infrastructure and basic services. The guess is 32 billion, 32 yours. Millions, go to 2016 to finance the remunerations that arrived in 2015. That's a lot of money. It is also vital to make good use of employment and additional government income in order to pay off debts in the years ahead. We have to prioritize government business. There are many practical suggestions, as noted by many. Last night, a final budget for 2014, handed over by a financial committee, states that there are hundreds of millions of institutions returning. leftover. Therefore, it is not surprising to ask whether their financial needs are properly appreciated, but I am not saying that it is a well - thought - out form of government. A financial committee has stressed that the government's institutions expand invitations and uses the most practical means of buying. It is very important that the government's funds are properly handled, and arrangements for business and purchase are being made to ensure that the most practical offer is made and chosen. More than a part of the financial committee brings to the fore the development of the Penitentiary debt that goes up a year ago. After all, the B-intel Department of Penitentiary and the Pension Fund will be raised in 2027. That will call for 20 billion bucks. annual expenses for ten years from now before dropping again. Within the B Company, those on the board of the 95-year rule have reached their combined life span and career age up to 95 years, the right to start a pension. This means that if the person worked continuously in the state from 25 years of age, he can start taking a pension at 60 years of age. A greater proportion of the financial committees point to an accumulated need for investment in the infrastructure, such as transport workers. In many parts of the country, there are still storm roads that are often driven, especially in summer, with increasing numbers of tourists traveling in Iceland. Because these roads are often dangerous, it is vital that we keep in mind the ongoing and permanent possession of the old barrier. Sadly, the entire road system has been seen in many places, and there is a great need for reform. Hv. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, a member of the Independence Party, has carried a heat - and - weight job in organizing communications reforms. The ringline of cables across the country is an enormously populated matter and is of great importance for all structure, especially for the scattered areas of the country. At all meetings of regional Parliaments with district officials, and in other districts or financial committees, the importance of good and stable communication opportunities, connections to the Internet, has been strongly suggested as a key factor to keeping the young people in the construction, education, and culture, and flourishing human life in the region. A greater proportion of legal committees make adjustments to the bill's income management program of 4,236.3 billion. K. to increase income intake, as well as alteration of 2 i.e. Section A financial partner, of 8,802.7 billion. K. to increase the pay. In the network, the total income of the year will be 700,555,3 billion. K. and budget 689,385,2 billion. K. Thus, the total recovery will be 10,721 billion. K. which is more than 4.5 billion lower than expected in the bill in September. A greater proportion of legal agencies believe that interest payments from the Land Bank will be higher than the 7.1 billion estimated on the bill. In view of the experiences of the past years and an analysis of the gap between the bank's accounts for the remaining year, it is likely that pay will be several billion times higher than in schedule. However, the greater part is careful and does not suggest an increase in the budget. Changes made in the budget of the bill are due to various decisions made by the government. One billion is designed to help the refugees and the refugees. There are some 840 million temporary efforts to shorten the waiting list for specific measures in the medical system, such as PCI, replacement surgery and eyestone surgery. In a study project involving hepatitis C, 280 million are given. There is also 490 million. K. contributions to building infrastructure at tourist locations, 400 million are to promote law enforcement, 250 million are going to work on climate issues, to mention some of the changes you can find. In addition, more than a portion of the legal committee contributes to the addition of legal rights in certain legal groups. There are 400 million. K. to cross-country in many countries, as listed in the Committee to Residents. There's another 400 million. K. For building up at airports within the country, including 150 million to Húsavík Airport and 80 million to Northground airport. A telecommunication fund is granted temporarily to 200 million. K. to speed up communications infrastructure beyond market areas and 235 billion. K. To the roadmaking. By that time, 150 million will be submitted for the planned Fjords Passage. A greater part of the budget board suggests that contributions to the University of Akureyri will be increased by 40 million, to the University of Hólar about 25 million, to the University of Bifrost about 50 million, and to the National Farming University of Iceland about 25 million. V.E.G. President. When it comes to building wood, the schools come to my mind the nature of the country. High schools and universities are mostly state - bearing, and this is where efforts were made by a greater proportion of the legal committees to pass some of the university in the country during 2016. This will not be enough, though. We need to take into account what is normal in the countries we compare with. When we look to high school, the situation is even worse. Their contributions, in the second decade, have been much lower than they need and should be. The Theocratic Ministry School has been financed so that its donations do not provide sufficient for the normal renewal of jobs, tools, equipment, and so forth in one high school today. As a result, when funds for Icelandic high school are compared with high school funds in our neighboring countries, Iceland warms its bottom in all respects. Never was the huge increase in budget needed when high school was made available to all out - of - school students. The Theocratic Ministry School was to deal with very different circumstances and learning abilities, social needs, and Bible - based support that resulted in such a change. This was further added when legal age was raised for 18 years. V.E.G. President. We're not doing much more for much less money in this country in education. It's an illusion. There is much more to be given to education if we are not to be drawn back in that regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u162	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you for the first thing. paritaprevir Valgerður's Gunnarsdóttir's choice for coming in for a speech chair and discussing budgets on the 2nd. I like it. I think it should be so that the members of the committee express themselves, allowing us to respond and have a conversation with the members of that council. This is part of what I feel has always been true here but has only diminished. Here goes. A senator over several adjustments, which include the increase in income as a result of their knowing that they are making more money from the Bank of Lands. Now, in 2016's budget, the government's share is not going to do anything about improving the elderly and the microchip that they should receive under the collective agreement and as we have been doing in the pursuit of the lowest wage, etc. Why is this not expected in the budget bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u163	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Kristján Möller Muller is very much involved in this inquiry. It is true that income will increase beyond what is expected in the budget. But like a dog. A senator knows that there is no guarantee, but let us hope so. Hv. A senator is pointing to a question for assuming that micro-elders and elderlys are raised to the same level of low-paying, but I'm not going to answer it here. I'm out of time, but maybe he'll point the question back to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u164	V.E.G. President. Yeah, time is short, just one minute. Then I'll keep this brief and specific: Why don't older ones and micro-temperatures like everyone else in the community during the course of 2015? Why is it not expected that elderly and poorer people will have an increase like all others in society on May 1? ... that'sabout51⁄210%?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u165	V.E.G. President. I thank you again for this inquiry why. Senator. It is now assumed that the interest of older ones will be reviewed by the law at the end of the year. It is standard practice that at the end of the year, we take into account the economic developments in society and what inflation has been and the ideal elderly and the desperate take into account these factors. A higher number each time is suggested when there is a firm increase in the interest of older ones and disability. This does not mean that the elderly and the poor are well - off. We know it isn't.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u166	Mr. President. Hv. A senator spoke about high school and their environment, evidently worrying deeply about what is going on there. I agree with the senator's concern. There are no special modifications made by a greater proportion of legal committees that go to high school in general. I want to ask you why. A senator: Isn't that what she's worried about? Has she fought and tried to influence it, but has she lived up to that challenge? I'm asking why. A student also about high school in the country today, when unemployment is less and fewer are in the middle of the river, a shorter study course begins to go in, and schools do not have permission to care for the educational needs in the area of 25 years and older, and school schools are limited to receive such students. Has a what? A senator is not concerned that if something amazing does not happen in that way, will the support of society across the country get weaker in the years ahead? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u167	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir It's a Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter for the question. Like what? A senator is aware of this, and I've had a long time of concern that the funds that go to high school are far too small. As I said in my closing words, if we compare ourselves with neighboring countries that we would like to compare ourselves with, we do not make much better for our young people. But that is so that not everything will be done at once. We've stressed putting more money into the health system, but I'm quite ready to fight for it if I have a position to make more money over the years to enter the high school of the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u168	Mr. President. I'm ready to go. A member of the council on this matter. But I'd like to ask why. A senator on State Radio. The highest invitation has been given. The Minister of Education is here giving a bill that insists that the radio rate will be the same in 2016 as in 2015. However, we have not been allowed to see that bill, and time goes by. I want to ask you why. A senator whether she believes that we are expecting that bill to be discussed and paid for Christmas. If it doesn't, what does she think is going to happen at the State Radio if it's 500 billion short? K. next year's business? So, what changes does it make to the environment and to the affairs of the Kingdom radio?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u169	V.E.G. President. I would like to answer any questions I had. A senator turned to me last year's answer about concern over an inside high school in the country. But I'm going to start by saying that the person standing here hasn't seen the bill as a matter of course. A senator speaks of on behalf of the Minister of Education so I can't answer for it and will not. Hv. A senator is concerned about the interior parts of high school. We're going to a short study for a student's exam. It's decided. What's the matter with you? A senator of 25 years of age and older certainly had been a certain group of students in recent decades who are 25 years of age and older. The situation is, though, that while there is a general rule that 25 years of age and older do not enter high school, they will have room for them in my schools in the country as long as students are missing their school. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u170	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I'd like to ask about the adjustments that are involved in dealing with a management house or preventing a business hall. There are at least four such suggestions for changing the suggestions. We know well from the budget board that we have been talking about the problems we are dealing with or when debts are taken off, then there is no equal, even to other institutions. We know, and we've also discussed it on the committee, such as why. A senator knows that institutions that are very successful, such as the University of Akureyri, are not necessarily rewarded for this. I don't understand why they're coming into the mood of some kind of transition proposal to straighten out at least four teams. Got it. This is a good procedure for a senator to decide in this way? It will not just go through the Ministry and with equalitarian care.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u171	V.E.G. President. I suppose that's what. paritaprevir Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir, who I thank for the answer, is talking about the four high schools of the country that have additional funds for discussion. I think that already it is. Senators are crossing the country for a week when it's cool. At times, members of the Parliament receive visits for a budget board. Senators spoke in votes in special terms, we found their institutions, and they offer logical wishes, and then I can't see, and I haven't shared in this way unless I believe it's right, and I believe that there's good reason to place capitals in those institutions. At the same time, I believe this is a direct indication to the academic authorities that these institutions need to be righted. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u172	A respectable president. We know that school status is not good. I think there's more to it than the funds set up here. But I'm also talking about 25 million. K. temporary contribution to the eastern bridge. I think we'll agree that we like the work that's being done there. But there has been a great limp. And it says in the greater part of the Committee: ▪ It is stated that founders have the work done as early as possible in view of the financial situation of the Agency. Then I ask, "Why isn't this assessment done before it's done? " For example, a greater proportion of people decide to give 25 million. K. on that assignment? Similarly, there are 15 million who are to the right of the Snortoro General Hall. What I'm saying is there are so many organizations out there that have problems with business. And to decide in this way who should be given an extra push and who is not a complicated issue. Peer control is needed. I think it's one of the most important roles we're in here, trying to ensure equality when we're handing out the limited resources we have. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u173	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Brynhildur Pétursdóttir's daughter's spirit for answering. I'd like to state as far as I mean to say that I feel that it will shoot a little blow when, as it is being done here, my institutions in the country receive additional funds at the same time as the demand for large increases in financial resources in the institutions of the capital area. As a member of the country, I think it's my primary duty to protect the interests of the institutions in the country and in my district.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u174	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his speech. She said that some institutions do not use all the financial resources they possess - which are true and expedient - and in the same sentence that perhaps they should consider whether they need that money. She also said that this would not be an option for institutions to be punished for standing up for their financial advantages. I thought it might be a bit of a reaction, because men know the example, actually a lot, that it is used as a justification for a lower budget, or at least a justification for the increase in funding when it is thought to be necessary, that the Agency will have their place. I speak as an example of Iceland's University, which is in its duties. This fact is used as a argument against either raising money or even reducing financial resources. I wondered how we will solve this knot that seems to be presented in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u175	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. It is now that institutions are determined by a set of budgets each year. In some cases it depends on what is called a calculus, such as at high schools. The models are designed to limit their calculation of the average curve. Some institutions may be funded beyond what is needed while others are not getting the financial support they need at all. When we face the fact that the same institutions are perhaps years from year to year with the rest of the cash, a treasure of my count is gathering, and I mean, that is, of good. I want to finish this answer in my second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u176	A respectable president. It is heartwarming to continue with that answer. It's something, like a whisk. A senator may know, which comes up under budget, especially in committees, i.e. Who is responsible for applying the laws of the law? We always end up in the same conversation about budgets, and they want to start correcting something that was decided earlier in the year, and I've just stepped into that trap myself, if that's the case. But I feel that a formal system needs to be in place to encourage parties in the administrations to resist funding without risking punishment for it or meeting a lack of understanding in the increase in financial need. This is something that I think would really help us get agencies to live up to our budget, if that were clear. That's why I want ideas from what happened. A senator, or anyone else, as to how we can accomplish this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u177	V.E.G. President. Yeah, so I'll carry on with my previous answer, it's so that agencies can raise the rest, up to 10% of their management budget. Once an institution crosses it, they're cutting it off. In fact, institutions that are successful, or organizations that come well out of a model - it's unfair to take this economy off. But when we are in a position to be always struggling with money and trying to divide those who are righteous, it is only natural for us to watch that there are money at least money at that time that could be ruined and that could be more useful elsewhere. It's so different whether we can invent a system that makes it possible for us to use this budget better.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u178	V.E.G. President. I want at the beginning of my talk with the 2nd. The 2016 budget says I think it's a financial bill that's already about a lot of not good. Simply put, it's because I think the bill is the product of increasing inequities in society and not reducing it. The structure of society is not being fortified, and the welfare community is not being strengthened, but it is weakened because it is not to be financed. I will go through this later in my speech and will certainly have a lot to do with it, but there's a lot on it too. Of course, we here discuss the issues of government spending, but I don't feel that it's possible to have that discussion without merely getting involved in how to earn it. As is well stated in the Committee's Table 2, a smaller portion of the budget of the budget has been progressively weakened by current governments for a sum of at least $3,440 billion in total. For that money, there's a lot to do. Of course, all the taxes and the cost of the State are political and are about how we want to build and how we want to run it. These principles are addressed in a discussion of financial matters. The one present realizes that it takes to run a well - being society in which desperate and pensioners live at a decent place, and health care is on a global scale. It costs repairing roads and building new ones, the cost of building tourist locations. Also, the person standing here does nothing secret about wanting to use the tax system to earn money for social projects, as well as the importance of how it is done. It is that those with the best of resources, whether individual or business, go to the community even more than those with less resources. That's why I feel that as soon as less things go away, it's important to me. The budget offers adjustments to the 2nd Environment. State budgets are also suggested on how to raise the money to finance it. That kind of work, in my opinion, is a role model and a responsibility when it comes to the money. Examples of the less - important income may include fishing fees, bank interest, and energy tax on industry. I'd only like to discuss the fishing fees specifically, but in my section's committee party says, by permission of the president: ▪ It is evident that with the changes in the fishing fee in the current government, the state's budget has already been worth billions of dollars, and everything looks like that income is going down compared to the latest number from Fishing Room. As most people are likely aware, in recent years fishing costs in this government have been reduced, and at the same time, large profits have been made and have paid a tremendous amount of money.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u179	2012.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u180	By lowering the rate of fishing, the state's gonna be funded by a considerable amount of money that I think we as a community should use in what I mentioned earlier, at the cost of money, i.e. the welfare community and the infrastructure. There's something else I'd like to do in particular, but it's that we're also taking care of environmental and resource taxes. It says in a committee study 2. It's less than 2 a.m. The budget board, with permission of the President: It is sobering to think of a time when the world's nations are assembled at one of the most important climate conferences and mutuality among them is to reduce the emissions of fossil fuels, the focus of the Icelandic government is to put off environmental and resource taxes, one of the most powerful systems in the struggle for future generations when it comes to protecting our environment. This is where I have to agree with my second point. I don't really understand. I would have thought that these very days, while our representatives at the General Assembly are attending a climate conference in Paris, we should be aware of the importance of paying taxes on contaminated activity. That must be what we want to do for the future, to reduce pollution and to add taxes to contaminated activity. It must go together. It's also of particular interest to me that at the same time, we are losing our income in the GDP that has been marketd in climate. Instead, they are sent straight into the big hold of a government fund without especially earmarking the climate. In times when we are dealing with environmental threats caused by global warming and climate change, we must stress this. Therefore, I feel very sorry not to see a place in government policy. It's a big deal. Governments and the greater part of the General Assembly have been very often unable to go to all kinds of infrastructure or structure or further pensions because of the lack of financial resources. But I don't think it's enough to say it when I don't see any sign of willingness to raise the money. So, in my opinion, it is the political choice of the government. This priorities and political selection were best expressed in a vote yesterday when votes were paid for reimbursement on the pensioner's proposal made by members of an independent party and the forward party. I may have started this talk on the negative note, but I would also like to talk about something that I think is positive. It must be acknowledged, however, that I will become more negative, I'll be rather critical of my speech. However, I would like to celebrate the decision of the highest degree. In the autumn of the year 2016, the government set up an increase in financial resources to deal with the situation of refugees and various areas that are being added only to developing funds and relief activities. I think it's good and positive, and it's important for me to mention it in this discussion. Still, I'm a little bit thinking about what appears in a committee program more than part of it. Funds that discuss evolution or development support, as it says. We usually talk about developing cooperation, but that may be secondary. First, it claims that contributions to development have increased by 690 million. K. about 50% from 2011. I think it's true that there's been a raise in the figures. However, it has not increased as a proportion of land production, which has just been increasing, and is only 0.21, 0.22, or 0.23%, I can't exactly remember. It is now, but it should be much higher, and if we aim at where we put the list of the richest nations in the world, the ratio should be 0.7% of the domestic product we are far from fulfilling. It's one thing I've got eyes in which I think it's a little strange, but there's another thing I'm less thinking about. This reference is made to the DEC/OECD target, by permission of the president: The ▪Mei part points out that the percentage has not been calculated correctly because a large proportion of expenses due to trustrs should be classified as development aid. If correctly calculated, Iceland's share is about 0.25% of national income and even higher if the development fund of EFTA involved in refugees is included. V.E.G. President. Now it is certainly so that according to the DAC/OECD criteria, expenses for the security groups can be counted in development support. This is by no means to be done, and there are very different ways in which the nations of the world do this. I believe that these two are not to be mixed together, but should be kept separate. The situation in the world is simply so, as soon as it is very important to take good care of the refugees, and as I said earlier, I am very happy at the highest level. Yet, it is very important for a government to place extra money on it, especially in an effort to provide for developing projects that are designed to strengthen the living in poor lands. Digging wells, building kamras, providing mothers with protection, for example, on projects carried out by the European Development Agency. Although there is now an enormous number of refugees who flee from war, there are also many who flee from poverty and lack of a future in their own area, people who think I don't want to leave home but who just don't have a way to have a future there, so they look to a richer country. We were deeply aware of this in the news today of the Albanian family, who were dismissed for the night's shelter, a family who surely came here amongst the purpose of seeking a better life span, came here with a sick child. In fact, there were two families who brought sick children here. But they were refused. The number of e - mails being received today is very clear to the fact that people are completely abused by the government of the United States. I was reminded of this deportation or rejection as well as an e - mail from the Icelanders discussed some loss when Ásdís Halla Bragadóttir, who was then the director of the Company Sins, said that Albania was a light year ahead of us in our choice of health freedom and competition, including the traditional packages, gold packages, and silver packages. It would have been interesting to know what these Albanian families could have told us about their vision in the local medical system. This brought me up to the point where I feel that there is a great need for mental contact with the Icelandic health system, its funding, its freedom of choice, and its private business. This is something we should consider in connection with a discussion of the laws under which the health system really is under. It was kind of an outlet from what I was talking about, that I don't think we should count the expenses of the inmates by our contribution to development work because I think we need to take care of both. You need funding for both. Although we cannot save everyone, we can certainly help someone, and this is important to those who receive practical help. We can't just think of them as numbers on paper. After each number, there is a living person who has life and dreams and hopes for a better future. So I'm glad that the smaller item will suggest that even more money will be donated to foreigners, i.e. to welcome refugees and increased support to immigrants. It is fine, as indicated by the suggestion of the greater part, to support the Foreign Institute, and I think it is important to strengthen that institution so that it can work better and work in a human way. In order to shorten a waiting period, it is very important not to push people out of the country more quickly. The money must not be done either to improve and speed it up so that, in a short period of time, people can receive good and reasonable treatment; this does not result in a faster push out of people as I have, unfortunately, seems to be too often when it comes to this institution. There are other things I would like to use my time to discuss with the budget for the coming years. I'm going to go back to the emphasis and changes in my terms. These adjustments clearly show that other emphasis can be placed on the government of the country. It is possible to make better use of the funds provided by others, and in my fairer way, because the smaller parts have fallen to work against inequities and to ensure that the prosperity is more righteous. In short, it can be said that there is a emphasis on improving the interests of those living on the lowest income or having the lowest amount for advancement, health, education, and community infrastructure. Most of the money the smaller part wants to bring into the budget bill goes to improve the quality of the pensioners. The daughters of a pensioner are far too low, and they don't have enough to make a living. That's what the public in Iceland realizes. The Micro-State Association had a Gallup survey, a serious survey conducted in a scientific way, and it showed that 90% of respondents felt unable to live on the amount of money that a number of micromasks have made each month. It also stated that 95% of the pensioners were expected to have comparable increases and increases were observed at the lowest wage rate at the last labour agreement. The 3% increase in pensioners received during 2015 is well below the average increase in pay, much less pay rates, whether in collective labour agreements, in due course or in dress court. I don't think it's fair that pensioners get up backwards, like other groups for 2015 and voted in that way yesterday. The discussion has been heard, and there's a point where I'm concerned that disability would be lower than the lowest wage, as if it were just some sort of prince's step to follow. I don't agree with it at all. We have to look at people, unfortunately, who often spend a very long time in disability. We're talking about people's life income, the income of their lives. Happily, there are not very many people on the lowest of the ears, and thankfully they depend on the age of life, and they have a career record that can work up in the pay ladder. To say that, of course, I believe that the lowest wage is not even higher and no one is holding that salary. But it's this idea, to believe that the disability benefits should be lower than the lowest wage I'm afraid of. I don't want to live in a society that's going to make a conscious decision that those who are disabled or have chronic illnesses and therefore unable to pursue employment have the nature of the situation, according to the poorest in society. I don't think it's a welfare community. That is why a poorling needs to be improved. That is also true of a pensioner. Unfortunately, there are all too many people who have toiled all their lives, who have paid for their taxes and other fees beyond their means. This need to be adjusted, so a decision to set priorities can be made. The large amount of money in the change of the part goes to the Land Hospital where there are increased funds due to maintenance, due to collective agreements, and because of increasing numbers where there are simply more people who need to use the hospital, but the funds that have been taken into account by the government have not been taken into account. I think everyone will realize that if we are going to have a health system that is approaching globally, we need to put much more money in the Land Hospital. The largest part of the government claims to have priorities for the health system, but there is such a problem that it will not be solved without changing emphasis. So I especially rejoice that a smaller section of legal committees found a way to raise funds and, on the other hand, to distribute them back to the hospital. In my section's suggestions, children's families will also be expected to be raised on the roof of the stocks to 500 levels. K. and that the impairment criteria of paediatric improvement will be increased and pediatric improvement. How vital this is to meet and improve the interests of family members in the country! Then the smaller portion will also put extra money into the education system, first of course, in high school, which says in committee study Part II that there was one of the main advantages of the Icelandic high school system, while the current government is gradually changing the education system through budgets without a wide range of talk in the community and in the World Congress. 25 - year - olds are being directed into more expensive means of personal education, i.e. with a lack of funding, it is, in fact, a goal to set for those 25 years of age and older in high school. I therefore rejoice that the government would contribute more money. The fact that people have been able to return to high school in adulthood has in my mind been one of the big benefits of Icelandic society, that not all will go one way, i.e. End of elementary school, go to college, and then to college. To date, people who for some reason have escaped from studies or have decided to take a break from school, have had children early, or for some reason gone to the job market, could go back to school. It is not possible for people to do so in other lands. It's not exactly Iceland itself anymore, but I think it's been an advantage in our society. Second, an increase in money may be needed at university, and it may be clear that according to a recent OECD report, contributions are made to each university student in Iceland very low and far from what is common in our neighboring countries. When it comes to the interior of society, it is the closest thing to mention what more people have, of course, done before me, but it's just because it's such a big deal. It's the transportation process. There is no need for money in the maintenance of the road system and in new roads. I'll agree with my second piece of what? The Commission of the Committee said that the government lacked a vision of the future in transportation. Of course, the absence of a transport plan says a lot. However, it is a tourist market fund. Now that we've put money in there, we've made a vote at 2nd. ... abouta pairofmails. I'd like to know if there's some serious stuff to expect, let me say, on the budget bill when it comes to these two giants. I see time goes pretty fast. There's one thing I'd like to come in before my time is up. It's the subjects of disabled people who are very thoughtful of me. These are discussed in the Committee's list of sections. The financing board, as well as the memory of the part. As everyone likely knows, matters of disabled people were transferred from state to rural society at the beginning of 2011. In recent years it has been apparent that the funds involved are not enough. There has been a requirement for increased service, and it has simply been found that during the Kingdom work, there was not enough service to be done. When it entered the surrounding environment, there was an increased need for service. In addition, the demands have been changing. Both disabled people themselves have become more demanding and community understanding of the needs of disabled people has also been increasing. These include the United Nations Convention, which Iceland has signed, although we have not yet validated it. We are now thinking that as a society, I will gradually adopt the ideologies that there arise. It is clear, therefore, that more money is missing on this project. This is shown in a committee study of the majority of the past. The legal committee noted that almost all of the corporations run this category with losses. It is even referred to in committee party 2 smaller parts of the situation, showing that about 1.2 billion are lacking in the seminary. This was shown in the case of a man. Vigdísdóar Hauksdóttir and the chairman of the Vigdís's Committee for Fundament Control. I really hope that there's some change I can achieve and some impact in this case that the State will come in a more handsome way in before we'll pass the budgets, because the group deserves it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u181	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I find the majority interesting, as indicated by the opinion of the greater part. A senator cites the development aid as a percentage of national incomes. They say we're wrong because we've got help with refugees inside these numbers. I think it's very important that it's clear, but why. A senator noted that this was somewhat different from the country. I don't know. But I can totally understand, if this is the right thing to say, then, of course, it's not good if we're talking about a whole different number than people do in other countries. Should be then just two, men should take the help of development with the refugee aid and then without, so that we have something to compare ourselves with. I don't know why. A senator understands me.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u182	V.E.G. President. Yeah, that's what Iceland's doing right now. We've got it separated. On the other hand, we have the money that goes on to develop cooperation and, on the other hand, expenses for those seeking refuge. However, technically it can be put together. If we were to do that, the percentage of Iceland's spending on developing cooperation would be up to 0.25%. In fact, I think some northerns do it like this, they all work it out. But as I traced my speech, I object that we are going that way. I think we should just keep this separate because these are two enormous but important tasks. We're also supposed to have our lines slightly clearer in this, what's for what.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u183	A respectable president. Yeah. Hv. A senator has convinced me. I'm not going to talk about this anymore. However, there is one thing we can discuss in connection with this legal arrangement. There is an increase in private business in health care. Then we're talking about the health care department. I'm not necessarily afraid that private business is going on as long as there's surveillance and we admit that there's a lot of private business going on in the health care department today, all specialists, I don't know if we should talk about the U.N. as our private business, but almost. Counts 'em out. A senator's concern? I can agree with the criticism that has shown that this in itself has not been discussed. This policy somehow is introduced into the budget bill. It is only natural to talk about this at the Assembly Hall and not just about the budget. Counts 'em out. A senator says that this is something we need to worry about, that private business is increasing in our health care?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u184	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. In effect, there are two different types of personal business going on in the health system. On the one hand, there are some self - interest institutions that have been run into private business, but their purpose is to bring no profit. I don't really have a business plan to set. What I'm worried about is a private business where some kind of profit plan is worked because I think it's politics that I don't want to participate in, i.e. in some way it is being made up of patients. That is actually the main reason why I believe the state should be in business when it comes to health care. [[The president calls.]] And I also think that the state can do that because all the fuss goes back into society, there are other viewpoints.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u185	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Today, economists OECD have expressed themselves on the importance of equations in the countries of the world and on the balance of wealth and prosperity and economic growth. Piketty wrote about it as a bestseller, and Angus Deaton got an economic prize in 2015 and also wrote a lot about it. But the right government in Iceland is reducing the equality of the tax system, both the income tax system and the rest. I want to ask you why. A senator: Does she believe that the right hand is just not well read in her seeds to realize that she is on the wrong track and that this is an old - fashioned political bitch and should be off this path the fastest thing to do? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u186	V.E.G. President. Yes, I certainly believe the right control should quickly turn away from this path. I am one of the members of Congress who has spoken quite often about the meaning of the bread crumbs from this chair. That's the economics I've seen in this government. I don't know if it's because of what it is. Congress officials are ill - informed or simply because of the problem. Senators believe that economics work. I don't see anything about it that works. In the 19th and 20th centuries, people may have been able to think that we should always increase the cookie, that we should produce more. What we have to do in the 21st century is doing less than secure the standard of living. Then we must think of how we share the equalness we have. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u187	Mr. President. The changes to taxes announced during 2016 and 2017 cost a total of 11 billion, of 5.5 billion in 2016. At the same time, the Landspians are starving. The road system is starving. The education system is starving, as we have seen in discussions here both from government opposers and government officials, and so on. This is so that the government can say that they dropped taxes and simplified the tax system, so it's a priority. Then you try to move within the frame that is cut. The damages start at 200 yards. K. The cutting marks fall in very fast. I want to ask you why. A senator on this development: What does she foresee, perhaps so unlikely, that this government will be here another rate of election? How does that count? A senator that it will end?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u188	V.E.G. President. I think that if the trend becomes that the government decides, that I feel that I am in a state of care, that I am not allowed to raise money for social projects, it is rather obvious that social projects will be reduced. Here is likely to be some kind of community, but it must mean that individuals have to make their own allowances for health care, education, to get to drive on some particular road block. Of course, this means that those who are rich can buy the ministry. The others can't. It's a social development that I'm not comfortable with, and I spoke in my speech just because we have to use the tax system to equalize it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u189	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for a good and clear speech. I would like to direct my attention to the smaller teams of the budget project, especially in the beginning with the adjustment of the more part's proposal to sell to Iceland's National Archives on Route 162, in Reykjavík, and to buy or rent other suitable housing. Now I know what to do. A senator may have more insight into Iceland's archives than goes and goes -- I say -- and asks if it might be advisable to do so without having any good vision of what to do. [[Foreground on:]] I don't see what to do with the documents. I wonder what. A senator would have some idea.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u190	V.E.G. President. That's a really nice question, a really nice question. I just have to answer that, no, I sure don't know what the top. The government is going to fix the documents, or just what would be best done with the documents, except what the heart would tell me. With documents, it is often best to move them as little as possible. But all joking aside -- it's almost 9:30, and you're starting to let yourself have some fun - this is a serious matter. I think it might be more about selling state property. A better option is to sell a place to rent something else, not the very opposite of what we are going to do here at the World Assembly Hall, the highest level. The government's going to do it, i.e. to stop renting and build over the Council?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u191	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. I think this may be a lack of a vision of the future that the current administrative body has in financial terms that have not been found or discussed with the people who are the most affected by the sale of Iceland's National Archives. Besides, to show the year's mismanagement of the budget, there was a new proposal that had now only been forgotten for 1.2 billion, i.e. changes in budgets due to agreements with Iceland's Teacher Association, distributed today. As far as we can tell, the forgotten thing happened. How does it feel? A senator like that? Both the proposal here is to sell the National Library and to simply forget the adjustments made.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u192	V.E.G. President. Of course, it must always be possible, especially when something is large, to be forgotten. Still, it is extremely serious that this happens. Of course, all of us must calm down over the years that such things do not happen. What I think is the most thought - I've never been in bed. A financial committee, only a part of one or two meetings - is exactly what the work is, in view of the other committees I have more experience in, being more angry and less organized than the rest of the committees. I don't know if it was a coincidence of those fractures from meetings I came in on. But when you hear more and more stories about things that could be better left out of the job, and then you forget suggestions, the overall picture is not exactly positive enough. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u193	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech. Hv. A senator entered the microenergy system all together and the social security system and mentioned that it did not feel that disability would be necessary to be less than minimum wage. All right. I agree with that. On the other hand, I wondered, " Can my priorities be better set so as to get rid of income ties in that category? ' Likewise when it comes to old age, or especially when it comes to pension. Even so-called right men, like the highest. As a matter of fact, a secretary of finance, at least before elections, agrees that it does not eliminate the income of a pension, natural, as it is encouraging, professional, and voluntary. You would have thought it was almost okay to have such an operation before and as if there were less political differences about it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] How does that count? A senator's priorities in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u194	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the question, for this is an extremely important discussion. I think it's best for the individual, not only financially but also socially, to participate in society. For adults, the main thing we do during the day is workforce. I think that's why it's very important to have incentives to go to the job market. However, the hardness of the work market cannot be overlooked. Although the willingness to work is hard for those who are disabled and desperate, it is difficult for them to find work. And so it's only sadly, so a bit of disability is in the position of having a very hard time working, except with a lot of support. Of course, they also need to survive financially. [[The president calls.]] So I don't think it's either. There's something that needs to be taken care of at the same time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u195	A respectable president. I agree that it's not either. For example, 100% of the sufferers have no choice in the case. I agree with what happened. In his talk, a senator said that it does not necessarily mean that people who are crippled are automatically the poorest people on the land, not reaching the minimum. However, there are quite a lot of people who have 75% of disability, or even disability, that can do some small things, but they don't do it because they are punished by their income restrictions. Like what? A senator suggested that and I agree with it, and I've said this before, it's not just a decrease in money, it's, in fact, a decline in freedom. In view of the campaign supply, the highest. I would have thought that it would be a political thing to start at that end, to get it straight, that the problems had been fixed by many, not all. At any rate, however, everyone should be willing to accept that way, for it would be the best way to do so because it would involve more initiative, more work, more value. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u196	V.E.G. President. You see, I think the community is getting all the money on that as many people as possible are involved in a work market, because as I said before, people are making so much money on it too. That's why I think it's so important that we have the system, so those who can even win 20% of it, I don't care, 10%, 20%, 30%, don't get into some kind of impairment, but they get to enjoy a few extra incomes. People are supposed to enjoy them completely. However, the question is, when people make high incomes - of course, there is always the cost of living with some kind of disability - where I feel that there is much more to consider about the loss of pension than just those with good income. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u197	V.E.G. President. I'm in a lot of trouble. I am deeply moved by the heart as an officer and as a member of the World Health Committee. In my speech, I will give a general consideration to the policy of the government of Sigmundur, Davíð of Gunnlaugsson Gunollon, the budget bill for 2016. I'm going to discuss the cooperation of my section at the council and our suggestions. I'm going to discuss a pension case, i.e. Pays from social security to pensioners and microenergy pensioners. I'm going to discuss health care, where I'm going to discuss Land Hospital and Health Care. I'm going to discuss the issues of a child's family and will discuss birthworm and child care, and most important of all, I'm going to discuss the issues of inmates and refugees. When I'm at the highest. The prime minister spoke of the financial bill of his government he said it was a welfare law. He found it difficult to go over and to explain exactly what was specifically related to the well - being of these budgets over other budgets years and considering a budget bill in 2014, and compared with 2015, the cost of welfare by the Ministry is exactly the same proportion of state expenditures during the two years. Thus, the focus on well - being is not seen in increasing financial expenditures over the rest of the state's litigation classes. What could have been interpreted as a priority for welfare was just one wishful trip. Prime Minister. So we have become accustomed to this hall and become somewhat glum about reading out of declarations, and we realize what it is about to be deceptive. It is the radical rationalism we live in at the General Assembly this terms. I've previously learned that the difference between right and left in politics is that the left party wants a strong government power, a vast government power, not to overpower the taxing of people, but to ensure funding in the public service that is useful to all of us regardless of our housing and economy, and to ensure a powerful balance system. I'm referring to social security, unemployment insurance, child support, interest benefits, mortgages, maternity stores, and so forth. The right categories are more interested in reducing taxes to the most successful. It is a priority, not a guarantee of general well - being and balance. There's an obvious sign here. The fishing costs have been reduced, so they're becoming a minor income e-mail in the state. There was a risk of extending a wealth tax that produced considerable wealth and that would have been the sole one to continue while we were recovering from the crash and improving the number of lawsuits that took on a massive decline after a crash. It has then been done systematically to reduce income taxes to the more efficient groups in this community. In our memory, we disagree completely with this priority. In the United States, we are experiencing an acute loss of three-stage tax system. Rather, we would have chosen to see an extra level for the highest income. Here the tax system is being ebbed out in some form of missionary that it is so simple. It may be some form of simplicity, but it involves increased inequities. Indeed, it was the inexorable one that increased so rapidly in the time of the forwarding party and the independent class before a collapse. It was the bad development that the parent of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir managed to wind down so that he could now speak to one of those countries that, despite this trend, is at an equal rate. We'll soon start taking care of numbers about other things. I'm very proud to be part of the smaller portion that has been combined for the change options of the budget. We've got three different committee opinions from the smaller parts where there's a little. paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir, United States, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, left of green, and Brynhildur of Pétursdóttir, representing the smaller section of the budget, presents differences in the focus of the classes, but the emphasis are no less different than that, although each of these classes has its own peculiar characteristics, that we can combine in terms of government interest. Pirates don't have a permanent body member committee, but their lieutenant, huh? paritaprevir Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir, coauthor of these changes. It is important to see that there is a clear alternative to the right government we now have. Is it my hope and faith that we will continue this partnership next year and then in the government after the next election? In the past few days, there have been a lot of fuss over the payments of social security, pension and disability after more part of the council rejected the changes made to the smaller parts. It was now that our first conference in the United States during the fall was proposed to improve social security in accordance with collective agreements in a retrospective fashion until May 1. This has been required by both the Neanderthal Community and the Microcollar Community. This is a legitimate requirement, which includes the fairness of the view that those who rely on government insurance pay will have the same quirky corrections as the remuneration employees. The members of the greater part rejected this, have been very defensive, and have made it appear that we are playing some political game. Everyone who has some perspective on social security knows that we did this after the 2011 collective agreements, because it's just that it's a fair deal. Failure to do this means making a political decision to increase the inequities that are in opposition to the social vision of the superiors. I hope the board of directors sees they're there. Today, there was a meeting in a financial committee with representatives from older citizens and microplies, and I think the management team is beginning to realize quite well about the pressures in this case, as it was noted that there seems to be a consistent answer to those who complain about this injustice. So there seems to be some tremor in the management teams who have the potential to make such a consistent answer. It is not a review of the election that was given in the last election, and I'm going to go over a little later. It doesn't seem to work very well. We can be brought down to the point, it doesn't matter. But it is the injustice that burns at those involved and those who observe this do so to their immediate victims as a result of their ruin. We can shake off a joke about plutonium, that's no problem. But we don't care about the people they're leaving behind, even now that Iceland's salary benefits. Before the election on April 9, 2013, the chairman of the Independence Party, including an article in the Morning newspaper, wrote that the poor older citizens and invalids were to be undone by the lack of pay on pensions, a cent for a cent. This was to be discontinued and corrected in accordance with the increases that had occurred at the lowest wage since the beginning of 2009. The government was a little quick to follow after the campaign campaign but did not have much endurance. They quickly decided that the summer would be abduction of a pension fund in primary pensions. In 2009, we had an operation that was very difficult, but that impairment was chosen because it did save some money with it. The decrease was not to the pensioners who had lost the terms but to those who had the most rights in pensions. The objective of the loss we had to take was to protect those who had less. But the right government did not take long and began the action against the most prominent. Since then, the director of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir had set a preliminary rule that included the percentage of the money reduction back on January 1, 2014, and no right control was required, since Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir had arranged for the decline to be made as soon as possible. The government still yearns to ensure the same pensions and the remunerations. So the materials have not been in harmony with the promises. To be honest, I don't see how the top priority is going to come out of following the policy that has been set here, to respond to social justice in an error. It will bring him great harm, and I would rejoice if there was no injustice that would result. It's intolerable, it's unpleasant, and it's a bad way of handling things. Then we come to health care. There's a little bit of a party there, too. On the one hand, pensioners are sent to the tone of a ban on the government field, and then the president of the Land Hospital has been given its dose, the people who run the National Hospital, the local hospital hospital of the capital and the hospital, who care for emergency and life - saving health care. But I'm going to start by saying I'm happy to see that it's more than half of the money being added to the Land Hospital by about 840 million. K. to work on the lists. This is absolutely necessary. I'm glad you're here. They are the countless phone calls, e-mails, and the Facebook messages I have received, and no doubt more members from people who have been waiting for months, even during the second year, after important actions and even in conditions where they cannot work because of their illness but should be fully employed when they are in surgery. This is going to be a great relief for many, and I hope this is going to go fast, and I'm sure it's going to be very well, because the models have created a terrible situation. Then there is also an additional one for Hepatitis C Hospital, a research project 280 million. K. However, in other respects, except for buffers and research projects for hepatitis C, there is actually surgery at the Lands Hospital. In our memory, we are responding to these disturbing reports by the changes we make. We propose that the Landspians receive a total of 2,840 billion. K. In addition. Thus, more than one billion are involved in the increased need for service because we are growing and the nation is growing older. About 400 million. K. these are to face the big deal that the Landskeeper is not fully paid for. Then there's 1,400 million. K. in maintenance, where we are talking about all the necessary things to stay in the hospital, many of which are in the least bad conditions. These requirements for the hospital were called a bit of a mess, and 30 million needed to be used. K. to do business at the Land Hospital, that was the greetings the Landspians received. [[The point is, Who did it?]] It may be doing business in public institutions, but when it is used to question the plans of the state's institutions for the need for financial management, it is very unpleasant. The land hospital did not oppose this position. The managers know that the hospital is an enormously expensive facility. There is a problem in the Icelandic health system that the public system does not automatically receive increased budgets from year to year, in line with increased pressures for service, while we have a personal network next to the side that automatically gains such an increase. We have a serious system problem that must be handled. We're undermined by the public system. A surgeon has suggested, these are not just our political views in the United States or the smaller parts, that it is important in a small country such as Iceland that the principal health care providers are on the hands of the government. Not to be distributed too far and to smaller units, since it is important for the university hospital to have a lot of expertise within its doors, that is a consistent effect, and especially the question of holding on to the knowledge available and giving doctors an opportunity to maintain their ability and training and to teach young physicians. In this financial bill, we see no emphasis on the public system but on the contrary to the private part. Worse yet, when it comes to the health care department, which most people agree to be the first site in the health system, it is being prepared for its private application. According to the health insurance Act, a minister has the authority to proceed without discussing it with the council, this dramatic change in policy. Here you can read in the suggestions for setting 70 billion. K. in addition to providing funds for clinics to cover the renting expenses of new clinics in the capital area. Then there's a reason. paritaprevir This is the case with a daughter named Oddný Harðardóttir when she's asked for an invitation. We on a welfare committee have requested to see a statement on the basis of such omens. They're not there yet. Then we read along the medical director's articles in the capital area, explaining the importance of private business. But the health minister seems a little afraid to say this, he doesn't drum up here to tell us what he's going to raise his health care. He doesn't seem very eager to discuss this. I don't think he wants to discuss this privatization because he knows there's no public support for it in the community. It's very serious, although he doesn't have to come here for the council, he doesn't do it because it's a great deal of interest. One of the few that Icelands agree completely with is that there should be a higher priority on health care and public health care. That's why I thought it'd be very impressive to the highest. A health minister would come and discuss this with us on the scene of the council. I have submitted a query for a written answer in an effort to find out where he is going, to get him to send something from him into the council on this. Then perhaps he will be able to discuss this with us. I would have wanted to see a plan for the construction of the Land Hospital. We have funding from year to year. There's money in the complete design of a treatment core, and that's why I'm happy. But I would have liked to see a structure plan and when it should be done. It's not just me that wants to see it. It's all the staff of the Land Hospital who puts high hopes in the renovations. This is an essential part of drawing expert health professionals to the country, and this is important for the safety of patients. Then, too, I would have wanted to see the study house plan, it's important that it's built together with the treatment core, but it has not yet been put in its complete design. Next time, I'd like to talk about family members, and then I'd like to talk about the birthworm and the baby benefits. In the smaller section, we suggest that the roof of the maternolfs will be raised to 500 fars. K. from 370 you. K. This amounts to full obstetricals, 80% of their pay, which is the norm. We do this because, as everyone knows, we cut down the birthworm in the collapse. We had started adding money again, and the roof was up to 350 yous. K. In the time of this government, the length we had decided to go to and the roof increased by 20 of you. K. per month. If our change is not accepted, the birthworm will remain unchanged for three years. The level of birthworm, covered with birthorlofs, will not have gone up for three almanac years. As a result, fewer fathers are giving birth to babies, and mothers are getting more trouble. They take the nature of the matter according to prenatal rest, and because of sex pay, they are less likely to go to the roof, but to a greater degree, they are exposed to a significant decrease in obstetricity in obstetricity. It is difficult for families who are getting on their feet, buying homes, or renting, to start paying off their student loans, and then to have the privilege of having children. It is a great strain for the home if it becomes a significant decrease in arrangements for up to nine months. Fathers were very willing to take the maternity note when they received special food just after the turn of the century, which has reduced their share in maternity. Now it is three out of four fathers that children will enjoy together during their first year of life. This is a very serious situation. It has been a great deal of harmony and pleasure to this fine system, which was set up in the history of the independent and forward government, and these groups should see their own worth in protecting it, but if we let it drive us to put the money in which it takes and extend the worm in accordance with changing social emphasis and increasing the parents'will of their children, we'll bury the system. It ends with the price of correcting that we will hold back from doing so. That's why it's important that the roof climb to 500 of you. K. which is 80% of the average income. That was exactly the standard we used when we raised the roof to 350 of yours. K., it was exactly the same standard. If the roof had followed the pre-falling prices, it would be covered today by about 825 p.m. K. We are not confident that at this point we will feel that it is most urgent that we meet the needs of middle - income workers rather than those who are in the power of moderate income, who, of course, also benefit from this increase. I really hope that the government part will come with us to defend our birthworm. That's $1,700 million. K. Then we also suggest an increase in child improvement. That's a lot of tragedy. The current budget bill says that child - welfare rates have gone up very high this year. In fact, it changed with the budget because child - welfare expenses dropped by 600 million. K. in the current budget year. When the advance party was purchased for the maintenance of the food tax, it was given a duet, which included an increase in child reforms by a billion. However, the independent party saw them and took steps to lower the level of income reduction so that their compensation was not fully rewarded. That's how I saved the highest. Secretary of finance for the state of the state, 600 million. K. at the expense of a child's family and the credibility of the advance team. They are now being dropped from the previous budget by about 150 million. K. It's just bullshit, of course. These are not numbers that are critical because they are not changing the limit now. Although child - welfare expenses are said to be down to 11 billion, we know that they will likely be more than 10 billion. We want a change in the limits of child damages and an increase in expenses of 2.4 billion. Hv. paritaprevir The previous minister of finance was Oddný Harðardóttir, and it was her work for 2013 to raise child reform significantly as a step toward making child - welfare unless it is customary in other parts of the North. The idea, then, is not that they should be poorly satisfied, as they have been led into being on the land. We're supposed to secure the equation through the income tax system and its steps, but the pediatric improvements should be to equal the resources of people in each income range compared with the different implementations so that e.g. those who have no children at 600 yours. K. in a month and those with three children with 600 ups. K. In line with the arrangement of each individual with the additional supplement of child - rearing, a month is closer to each other's provisional items. That is why we contribute in the smaller parts to increase the rate of child development and consider it extremely important for the families of this country. Madam President. I've talked about, superficially, a number of welfare issues from the compromises of the United States, the left greens, the bright future and the Pirates. But I can't leave here without discussing the brief affairs of the inmates and refugees. We add to the searchers. So does the rest. The majority of the shares contribute to 87 million. K. ... butwe'll make an additional 112 billion. K. Iceland has not been affected by the increasing flow of refugees that now come to Europe because of war and disaster. So we senators in the memory of our section failed with a synonym that included the U.S. government of 100 say-night workers in the current year and 200 over the next two. Then came the government, and he said he was going to put 2 billion on this project in the present year and the next. They welcomed it. We've never had a complete analysis of how to spend that money, but we can read it from budgets and budgets for the next year. It turns out that only about 16% of the 2 billion people are to be welcomed by the people in the refugee camps all around Syria, the largest current of which are now from Libia, Syria, and Ethiopia. The World Refugee Institute has been loudly calling for the world's state to take more difficulty in saying good news. V.E.G. The prime minister was very determined that a number should not be mentioned at all. Probably he had such a low number in mind that he did not want to say it out loud. As many as 500 refugees are soaring in society. Of course, there is a group that wants us to receive more and more people who want us to receive fewer ones. But it all seems that they will not be 500, but they will be well within 100. I feel ashamed that we are not ready to take greater responsibility as a nation of nations as a rich nation for the present conditions. Significant financial resources are then being placed in international institutions, and this is a positive and good thing, where support is being provided in nearby areas where most refugees are and are helped by countries that bear the most burden. It is Turkey, Lebanon, and Pakistan; these are the kingdoms that take the most, and Ethiopia. I told Ethiopians earlier to tell Eritrea, from where people are fleeing, but Ethiopia is one of the countries that take one of them most seriously if you look to the economy. It is these countries that we are coming to meet and help them welcome refugees and help with the work and international institutions in the area. It's important. Then, more than one quarter of this amount, 2 billion, is to be placed in the shelterers. It's money that, in my opinion, shouldn't be inside those 2 billion, it's money that we would have had to contribute anyway. More and more people, especially those from poor countries, are looking for political or war in Europe. Their arrival here has increased dramatically. We were driving out five families last night using a law that the United States didn't support and entered the 2014 Law. There is a measuring device. If you are from certain states, your application can hardly be evaluated individually. The law of foreigners, in my opinion, has to be revised, and more kindness is shown to them. Money is not to be used, either way, which would have had to go into the budget as part of the 2 billion that were to take on the task, especially to cope with the rise in refugee currents. Madam President. I conclude at this point, even though I have enough material to do a number of additional talks on this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u198	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. We've been talking about the ideal old-tempered and desperate, and I'm not gonna waste any time on it here. We just hope it all goes well. But sometimes I feel like we forget because there are groups in the community that just don't have it at all. Collaborators have sometimes been named in the past. If you examine the report made by the Strategies Department, the largest single group under low - income limits and single parents are single. Of course, they can be desperate in some cases, but I don't think we're paying enough attention. This is a group that does not necessarily make up any pressure group and may fall a little apart. I wondered: " How do we make sure that no one falls into the poverty trap? [[The president calls.]] We fishers in sensibilities and invalids, but those with stress are a group that I feel sorry for, and I don't think he's got enough attention.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u199	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the answer. How we make sure that no one falls between us is not a simple answer. I couldn't agree more. paritaprevir Brynhildur Pétursdóttir's granddaughter's bramble. For example, the groups with rural social services looking for housing and supply are single men and single mothers. A way to meet these people is to create through increased housing support, a single parent through child reforms with a lower income tax level for the lowest paid, but as well as a good public service in the health and welfare systems that are inexpensive or inexpensive. That service is vital for our quality of life and for our standing before others in our community. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u200	A respectable president. Hv. There's a senator coming into the pediatrics. We watch that 11 billion are put in child reforms next year, perhaps a lower amount at the end of the year. Child damages start at 200 yards. K. I wondered if we will watch a new system, even uncheated baby benefits like in Denmark, and the further support for those who need it. I noticed in the report by the Department of Traffic that a new system, known as Child insurance, is actually proposed. Isn't that something that the welfare committee has considered? I don't experience child support serving this day's purpose for everyone. Yet, that's a substantial amount. The fact is, a couple who drool only over a minimum wage hardly achieve children's benefits. That can't be normal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u201	V.E.G. President. Friðleifsdóttir Fräuleind's daughter and Oddsdóttir Odsddsdóttir from St. I wholeheartedly agree with their proposal for a general failure on child support and then a system that makes sure that people don't fall into a poverty trap. But I also think that we should be more afraid of using forward goals to determine improvements to people. When Guðbjartur - fearing Hannesson was the welfare minister, he made the political decision to have such standards calculated and published publicly. Although he could not follow the progress of reforming, he said: "It is far better to have it publicized, so we realize how much people in the country are chosen. [[The president calls.]] We are not to ignore the fact that people live under forwards. Rather, they have official information to increase their demand and increase the pressure to ensure minimal progress. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u202	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for his record on this matter. I want to kill on what is said in the Committee's list of parts about refugees and hospices, that the issues should be classified as developing cooperation. Now I'm not quite ready to see if developing cooperation is a matter of welcoming refugees. Developing cooperation appears to be more something done elsewhere. I think it's a bit unusual. I'd like to know which one. A senator has something more to say about this. Also, I would like to ask about prison matters. Now 65 million is being put in place. K. It's an additional group of 80 million in this category, but we're in the smaller part of it. It takes a lot more than that in this group of subjects. I'd like to know why. It's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u203	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the answer. These were two simple questions. I would like to begin by saying with regard to the development aid that according to international standards that I don't know who makes it is not the United Nations, they are classified as members of the refugee team as development aid during the first two years, that I think they are in that country. I don't think that's unusual. It is vital, therefore, that we publish the information on development aid that is well distributed because, of course, we are to distribute it, so that we are putting, not just one team of development aids, but both in the welcome of refugees and in funding to the countries where we have developed cooperation. With the prison case, a lot of money is needed in there. I think the most reasonable and humanable way would be to revise a penal frame, e.g. in drug crimes as well as other offenses, reduce the number of people that put us in prison and use the money to change the focus of prisons from prison to reform. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u204	A respectable president. Thank you for that good answer. That was something I didn't know. V.E.G. The Minister of the Interior State has said that as many as 80◯100 million more are needed in the delicate matter of prison. Well, that's the situation now that Little Man's life is hardly in a lot of respects. The course must be clear in both the majority and the smaller parts. If we're about to add more money to this suit, we're going to have to put 50 million in Little-Sun only, although the situation is bad elsewhere. The situation is that we need to consider the construction of the prison. They leak a lot each. Likewise, we need to consider the jailers, who are more often than not on the back. It has been observed that in half of the cases, reformation is required, which is unacceptable. I'd like to know why. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u205	V.E.G. President. I agree with what. A senator and a chief. Minister of state. There's not much more money in this suit. I've been inside two prisons in Iceland, Little Lava and the jail in Akureyri. The address in Akureyri is very different and better than the Little Lava, where, for example, is prisoner's position to work is virtually zero and curfews are quite frightening. When you enter these two prisons in Iceland, and I understand that the Hoding House is much worse, as they say, we break human rights by using it and we're off-duty, you wonder what kind of community it is that makes these situations for people who have to be punished and who need to be in reformed. The setting of these institutions does not bear a fine witness.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u206	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you what. A senator on the committee's opinion, i.e. what is stated in the Committee's panel of more parts of the budget and in my opinion not only the practice but also the attitude of those who sign it for financial work. During the last term, a great deal of work was done on it, I take it as an example, spending so - called museums and setting up a steady, clear, professionally, where there would be publicity and members of Congress would not be doing tasks on the basis of conditions and any undefined rules. An example of this is the Road Building, where 235 million are being delivered for various projects throughout the country and for example, as well as for other ports of 400 million that are being consigned to 11 projects, apparently indistinguishable. There's no evidence. There's not even a transport plan. [[The president calls.]] I want to ask you why. A senator will agree with me that this is a return to the budget, that it is going back to worse times. Even further than was done here before the last term. I asked her if she can agree with me about it, and I wondered what caused more of the legal committee to decide to work in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u207	Madam President. Yes, I couldn't agree with that. It's a comeback. For financial contributions, it should be made according to pre-specified rules and clear guidelines and by some programme, not by personal interest or financial means. It is indeed a setback, but it may be said to be an improvement from the beginning of a prime season when it was the highest. Prime Minister dislocated money with text messages. This may be a step to get out of it. I don't know. But it is surprising that this is not the policy of transport. That's weird.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u208	President. Thank you. The senator's answer. During the last term, there was quite a wide agreement on the changes made in museums; almost complete, except for representatives of the Annexe Party on the budget. Other than that, all were eager to make these changes, especially representatives of the Independence Party, who stressed that the work was done as soon as possible. She took a while. To find the best way, a group of representatives was appointed to the budgetary committee. It was found in my opinion. However, it is now suggested in this costly committee party that I will consider better in my next talk that they will be organized to a special Senate committee; that this will take a step further than any human projection so far. It will be a special Senate committee that will take care of a body of members, tour the country and its country, a charity, and then kill money on what the members of the Parliament think. It's kind of worse than when the blue tickets were going on here at the council, the phone tickets with the notes to remember the light bulbs and fence posts here and there in the country. [[The president calls.]] Although I am not the most exhilarating member of the Independence Party, I believe that he wants to control money well. What does the senator think about the independence party's stand on this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u209	V.E.G. President. Now it's not that I'm on a budget and I don't know what independence people are thinking. But I remember that during the last term, it was not the least of it. paritaprevir Blöndal Bömell, who fought for it. The members of the Independence Party on a budget board were very involved. The thought of a special Senate committee that starts to divide money, such a mess, creates a mental connection between corruption and the prenuptial romance, it doesn't have to be an idea flight, it's obvious that good luck is not being controlled. It seems that the Independence Party is going through a great period of humiliation and is ready to participate in some sort of 50-50 exchange, and that is now just part of their heritage, by the forward party. This Senate committee - they just think it's such a brilliant idea to share money out there.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u210	A respectable president. Let's talk about it. The senator was somewhat strange, and there were no less bizarre last exchanges and how men could read that a Senate committee to revise and review this should be distributed. Clearly, the goals given have not been reached. I can talk about it later. I won't do it in a short answer. I'm sorry that there's been some mistrust in sending the Land Hospital, and some form of distrust has been decided by the head of the Hospital and the leading legal committee, putting 30 million on the report. I want to ask you why. A senator who spoke about the medical clinic: Is she against private health care? Why? Is it against health insurance laws and therefore the Norwegian system? Then, in conclusion: Why are the suggestions of the smaller section aquifers now not financed? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u211	V.E.G. President. I'm not lying about Land Hospital. Hv. The chairman of a financial committee said that the presidents of the Land Hospital were complaining, they were complaining forever. That's what I read in the media. [[The point is, she didn't say that.]] I didn't sit next to her when she said that. For private health care business, I'm not following him. I believe that there is evidence to suggest that the health care problem will be solved by private management. Health care is primarily a chronic lack of money and a lack of political leadership to create the tools needed for health care to be the first stop. Since there is no need for health care in different areas and there is no specific description, I do not trust to the highest degree. A health minister will do this in a decent way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u212	A respectable president. I draw attention to the fact that there's a lot of news here. He's a health-care spokesman. paritaprevir Ingadóttir Inggadóttir, chairman of the welfare committee, says he is not a private health care worker. This is a major change from the course the Conspiracy had, at least the last time I knew, and the men spoke in the assembly. These are also cold greetings to the progress of a personal battle that has been in Iceland for decades with very effective results in health care. I'm talking about Salatown, as an example, the Low House and, of course, the independent doctors. This is something humans are discussing right now. For example, the director of medical care carefully referred to this experience as well as to experience in other countries. Thank you. A senator for his honesty. This is a change of policy and a big political report. It is very clear and good to be able to talk about this because this shows that the United States is a common alliance, as we may know, but it is much clearer now than often before. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u213	V.E.G. President. I'm just saying, what's the People's Coalition? Hv. paritaprevir The God - Guðlaugur Þórðarson seems to know more about this, but I've never been there or had a special interest in it. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] Regarding private health care management, with good results, the senator says. What were we doing at the fundraiser? We were adding money to the Health Care Center and the Medical Care Department because they stop with a much more practical agreement than are the funding of the country's health care department. There have been discussions of changes in financing, and I think it's only natural for us to examine how we make sure that our health care becomes stronger. [[Up front.]] Before we strengthen the health care support, identify and decide what we want to buy, how and where it's empty talking about going into private business, because that means personal trouble, that means that we're digging even more out of public health care in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u214	A respectable president. You're kind of finished now. Not only are the work at the budget or at its head, so here, an additional month has not been enough to complete her work at the appointed time, and it went past ten days, but we now read about it on websites on this night, after the leading legal committee has provided the budget bill to its final end. The chairman of the Committee brings up 1,192 million requisitions due to failures in the management of the Department's budget and the Committee to Re-Elect. It was forgotten to bring in the teacher's pay raises on the budget bill. A respectable president. Is it not good for a financial committee to receive these matters only, open them up again, and consider whether there have been more such mistakes in all these long periods of time and in all this much work that has gone ahead of plans and concerns any such marvelous sums? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u215	A respectable president. This set up a change in ethic law so that the Council would have more time to discuss the budget. Now that we're well into December, we're in the middle of the 2nd. budgets in the setting of a modification proposal for the shape of a spell change. 586 at the 2016 budget, inaccessible expenses, an increase of 1,200 million. K. I suggest what. The legal committee is now being called back to the committee, having 24 hours to review whether the matter is really ready to be discussed because it is not enough to make adjustments in the day - to - day adjustments and to run a billion people like that. It's not. I suggest that the meeting will be terminated, and the financial committee will review the columns in calmness with their committees. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u216	A respectable president. Hv. Councilmen who spoke before are very experienced. Councilmen, who know matters very well, have been in smaller parts and more parts during the council, at least the person who spoke first. It's not quite so good that a financial committee settles down and organises such changes. Senators know. We need to rely on the Ministry when it comes to it, and it knows why. Senators are well - versed. I don't think I have to explain what people know, that we're going back to the committee and we're going over it, but there's been a lot of changes in the environment, more than often before. Although I regret that all information is not presented, I think there is a chance of speaking in this way. [[Up front.]] Let's just finish this conversation. There is good opportunity for us to criticize both the government and the budget committee during the discussion, and then we take the case between discussions to the committee and discuss the matter. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u217	A respectable president. I just have to agree with those who have called attention to the fact that they lost a factor of 1.2 billion, braking high school teachers. It's kind of embarrassing, so to speak. However, I would like to ask a respected president when she's going to complete a meeting tonight. We've got a lot of people coming to a meeting at the end of the week. 9 tomorrow, if not 8, and it's just not appropriate to drive people out late after all evenings. Next week, no committees have been organized according to the Generals program, and I also ask if it would be inappropriate to try to start a meeting earlier and to postpone all the committees until the New Year's Eve. Then perhaps it would be time to welcome guests in peace rather than to involve them in the budget talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u218	A respectable president. I agree with what has been presented here, that at least this meeting will be interrupted if it will not only be postponed while a body board receives an opportunity, at least More than a part of the budget board, to cover both the budget and their proposals and to see if there's more than one billion missing to post, an increase based on Article 14. agreement with KSI made in April 2014 It's not like it's new. At that time, I think it's clear that there are other defects on proposals and committees, as we have seen here. I merely point to two obvious errors in the committee opinion, first of all, statements on how the reduction of the radio charge for the State Radio was determined, which is wrong, and second, a serious error has been introduced on page. 9 which I hope most people have noticed, which says that the greater part has had good cooperation with the governor of the Land Hospital in recent times.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u219	Madam President. Of course, this is unfortunate when such mistakes occur, but the high school directors had already figured it out and had already wondered if this should not happen. Of course, it is time for a financial committee to consider the situation better and how the overall balance will continue after correction has been taken. There are others coming if I understood why. paritaprevir Lord Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson was correct. Madam President. There's a meeting at the budget board in the morning, the money committees are here for a discussion at 11:00, and I'm gonna ask the President when this meeting will be over tonight. Is it not proper to consider that there is a judicial committee meeting in the morning and the money committees must stay at this meeting until the meeting is concluded?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u220	The president intends to continue a meeting for another dozen members of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u221	A respectable president. It has now been found that 1,200 million because of the teacher's dressbacks have been forgotten and are entering a new arrangement. This is the billion forgotten. It turns out yesterday. The chairman of a financial committee felt that he needed sufficient data to communicate with the elderly and desperate, and he had to postpone a meeting for which a financial committee would think again that it seems that the evidence was not available to her to help with the financial bill. It is absolutely clear that the debate at the Hall of Congress today is meaningless. It lacks all the grounds for it, and I support the proposal that this meeting will be postponed and a financial committee will be arranged to meet, take care of it properly, and then enter Congress with hopefully correct information. [[The president calls.]] In fact, we'd have to get this financial debate back up again.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u222	V.E.G. President. Of course, a financial debate is a huge matter, and I have a clear understanding that it may be difficult to keep track of any suggestions and adjustments. Yet, there must be, as it is, 1.2 billion people are a very big change and that they are missing in so that a teacher's agreement can be met. I think it's sobering that the last days have been long into the evening. I'm sure there are more senators who are tired than me and I just feel that there's no way that there's a complete perspective on what we're dealing with here that's putting the law together. Since a financial committee is going to meet in the morning, it seems obvious to me that this meeting is already to be terminated so that the senators can get fresh enough to do their job decently in the morning. [[The president calls.]] You can't have a perspective on such large cases of ill sleep and tiredness, and that's already manifest.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u223	A respectable president. Here is a flier but high numbers that I think are important, especially because this is where we're headed for a baseless budget, which I assume is still the case, but it matters how much space we have. This affects the talks that follow. Therefore, it is important for those speakers who follow the effect of this change. In fact, it is relevant to the modification of the part's proposals and other proposed changes. I'm next to the rosary. I think it's very important how the government's holding up and what the rest is. Of course, I think it's important that there's something left over, so I agree that this will be discussed on a committee before we continue the discussion. We know exactly how this case has been delayed, and you have a clear understanding of how people overlook things. I totally understand, but it's also supposed to be the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u224	A respectable president. I again made a sound because I was told that my words could have been misunderstood, so there was not every reason to celebrate the promotion of teachers. Of course, there is good reason to welcome a high - paying teacher. They are well - versed in them, but this also highlights the automaticity and automaticity of this to all other groups in the country, while older people and micropigs, as we have discussed over the years. First of all, this underscores the bad effect of having a late conference stand, shooting at extra meetings in a budget board, putting them off, spending ten days ahead of schedule, and still unable to contribute short - term documents. Of course, just at the end of the payment on huge sums of money, which will only increase the angle of a trust fund, gives every reason to try to learn from this and to risk these bad schemes to a financial committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u225	Madam President. I agree with that, it's frightening but certainly something like that can always happen. I don't intend to challenge it, but these may be, as we have seen here, the anticipated changes. When you went through the entire pay package, these are contracts that were very much discussed last year, and I would have thought the amount should have gone in. There's a meeting on the budget in the morning and, as far as I'm next, we'll be able to discuss mainly the interests of older citizens and the desperate ones we talked about today. Because of what? The vice president of the budget is here, and I can see that he has made a silent announcement, so that this case will be settled there. This shows that the switch to the individual subject will be shown in a specific overview and that changes will be made to the relevant budget for the status document at 2 o'clock. I'd like to see this and see if we couldn't come by because we didn't have to finish the discussion before all this information went down. [[The president calls.]] I encourage him to make it happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u226	V.E.G. President. I'm happy to be assured by a change of proposal that teachers will be getting their dressbacks, but I'm starting to worry if any class is getting credit on this budget bill. Are we absolutely certain that no important profession will be forgotten? I care. I find it odd that this should enter the council this evening after all the time the committee has had to work and, like, what happened. paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir here, informs us that there has been a tip from school directors on this very subject. V.E.G. President. I suggest that this meeting be interrupted, and a financial committee reviews it with the Ministry of finance to see if some professions and dresser are being overlooked for them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u227	A respectable president. I hope I don't understand why. Councilmen, I hope they didn't assume that our two good secretarial agents working for a financial committee should go over all the conditions of a collective agreement and calculate the benefits. I hope no one believes it or thinks it's that way. I suppose it was some kind of hilarious case. The nature of the matter, as well as a lot of other factors, is in terms of the budget, perhaps most, that we rely on information from the budget. It's really lame, and I'm not sure it's. A legal committee for various things, but it is very farfetched if someone believes that it is. The Board of Justice is going over those figures. It has been the rule at the head of this legal committee that men try to meet all that has been asked and that, among other things, there were two meetings that relate to a particular subject that we are discussing. [[The president calls.]] We'll meet in the morning, and of course we'll try to deal with it as fast as possible. Senators in my section want to review and download data, as we have done in all other matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u228	Madam President. After 2 Cor. has begun if high school education has not been expected. Of course, you rejoice that they will have their raises, even though it is shocking that they have not appeared before and that they have failed. It doesn't matter where the mistake took place, whether it was in the Ministry, or if a financial committee wasn't clear enough and saw it coming, it's bad enough. This is the day, and, of course, it needs to be examined in a financial committee and also reviews whether some other teams are not fully financed. It is not very reassuring to know that this is happening now. That's what I think everyone has to admit, including the board of directors.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u229	A respectable president. This is not a reassuring practice. But I'm sort of getting ahead of myself. The vice president of the legal committee, the God - Guðlaugur Þórðarson, should refer to the Committee to write the committees, leading the members in this context. [[No, I was saying they weren't. ...]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u230	No, I was saying that...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u231	The responsibility, of course, is the committee and especially its leader. Now it is found that a billion people have been forgotten. They cannot be referred to anything except to the Committee, no matter where the mistake occurred. It doesn't matter whether they were doing maths in the Ministry of finance or some lawyer was on the Committee. The responsibility is the Committee, but first and last of the council to perform a well-worked and correct budget. I am a member of this hall, and responsible for the work being done here on the budget, and therefore I demand that this meeting be terminated by a more dignified president and a financial committee be met immediately, immediately at dawn, with the Ministry of finance, and there be no financial hearings again until we have received the facts. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u232	A respectable president. A play has begun around it. Of course, all of us can look at ourselves with some sort of mistake being made in the Ministry of finance. They're being corrected. I'm sure it's not the first time and it's probably not the last time it happened. It is primarily a source of joy that crystallizes in this information, the economy that occurs in the school system, the reduction of high school, and the increase in pay to the teachers on the basis of it. We can do better with our teachers and may bring in even better students and education for our children into the future. And then it sounds like I'm getting a little tired. I can even see why. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson said it would be easy to sit here for a long time, it's no longer in the hall. He may be home to rest. I believe there is every reason to continue the meeting, a respectable president. Of course, the responsibility is in my memory of how long this meeting will be. We haven't had any information on how long the smaller part wants to talk about this. [[The president calls.]] While it is not available, while that information is not provided and his wishes for a meeting time and how long it will be spoken in this case, we must just continue.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u233	V.E.G. President. I object that it is on the authority side of the government how long it is spoken. Here were a vote for a late-night meeting earlier today, and there were not members of the government opposition who voted to be found late into the night. As a matter of fact, I would like to count the members of the administrative body to the point that they have at least participated in the discussion now. On the basis of many matters, many members of the council from the majority of the council have participated in the discussion, taking part in answers. That's what I've been calling for this discussion about a lot of cases in the fall. On the other hand, I absolutely dismiss the fact that we are in the position of government to teach that these words are spoken for a long time. We are responsible for this, and this is how we should work things out, talking to each other, which is to be done in daylight rather than into the night. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u234	A respectable president. I kind of just agree with what. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson. The seminar is long, and I would point out to the president that perhaps a president would connect himself with members of the House of Government and would be able to find out how long the government held this matter. I can say on behalf of the Pronunciation Party that he is ready to sit down and finish negotiating a discussion period on this case that has been going on for a very long time. [[...manages... on the rosary.]] While the chairman of the government council is not prepared to negotiate the end of this discussion, which has become an enormously long discussion, I think that there is nothing more to be offered than to continue this discussion here in the evening and night. [[...class presidents...]] [[End of story?]] It's not my duty to be in the hall, to observe these discussions, or here at the House of Congress. These are lively and enjoyable discussions, and many new topics are presented in the discussion. While the government wants to talk about it and is not ready to finish the discussion or at least let us know when the discussion will end, of course, it is the only thing to do. [[The president calls.]] I encourage the president to contact the council presidents of the U.S. Antiquities to try to find out how long the government is planning to talk about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u235	A respectable president. I'm always sorry to hear when members of the Senate point out the responsibility of their own mistakes something like that. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson did so earlier by referring to the Ministry of Financial Affairs, that the staff of the Ministry of Economics had forgotten or were not aware of the proposals as much as the other members of the General Assembly are expected to move. This is not a good word for me, nor is it a good word for the staff and financial officials, as well as for the other people who are doing a great job. They should have the courage to take responsibility for any mistakes they may make, no matter what their source. It could be that it's just, you know, the way it goes and it happens, something that goes by you. For God's sake, your shoulder's responsibility for it itself, don't point out people in town, officials, or employees. I agree with what. Ásmundur Daðason Daldasson. It's a good conversation. First speeches are still being held. I'm sure they'll be held, except for what, into the night and until tomorrow for me. [[The president calls.]] This is the first time I've known that management officials will complain about the discussion of budgets of 1st. What tolerance.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u236	It's a 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u237	A respectable president. I didn't mean to say goodbye and just want us to keep talking about it, but I was kind of moved by words. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason. We are here on the largest case of the government and have had very good discussions at the Hall of Congress, both the government and the government side. I didn't quite understand what was going on. A senator meant when we were going to stop talking. I've had one speech and I suppose nothing else but leave me the right to make some kind of reply. I felt that there was some kind of filibuster here. I just don't experience it that way at all. If we're not going to discuss the budget, what should we discuss?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u238	V.E.G. President. I am delighted that this meeting is still standing, and I wish it would continue for a long time because, as the ghost said, there has been a detailed and useful discussion, very pleasant in chapters, and I urge a president to continue a meeting of drinks still because enough is the night, and we all insist on exchangeing our opinions on the nation's budget. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I am so happy that a meeting continues to stand a long time but admits that I miss very much that this is not the life - tested and longtime senator, Össur Skarphéðinsson, who said today that no member of Congress was a man with men unless he had seen the sun enter the World Hall. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] The sun enters the General House at 10:30 a.m., and I eagerly anticipate and encourage the president to proceed with a meeting. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[When the meeting is scheduled.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u239	A respectable president. I was kind of moved to come up, both of them. paritaprevir Björn Valur Gíslason. paritaprevir Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir's Struggle The person here is not complaining that we had a discussion into the night, but I felt that I sensed the government's resistance in a discussion about a meeting board before me that there was a certain irritation that we were going to meet in the night. I was just celebrating our meeting in the night, saying that I couldn't see another chance in the situation while the senators couldn't get together about the time of this discussion. I'm offering all of my will that the council presidents be able to determine when this discussion can be completed. [[Up front.]] So while they are not, and they are not ready to do so, we have no other game than to be in these discussions into the night and even into the morning like a boy. paritaprevir It's Sæmundsson's stone. I encourage this discussion to continue but is at any point ready to sit down with members of the council and discuss the possibility that we can end this discussion and give a vote on this matter because, of course, it's a big deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u240	Madam President. I don't quite like the way this is being held here when they say they're ready to negotiate with the government's opposition to end the case. [[Up front.]] I agree with what. paritaprevir Bynh Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir, this is the biggest case we'll ever talk about at the council, it's gonna be no bigger. [[Up front.]] Here are some of them. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson, what? paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir and who. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson - these are members of the board of directors. Is it, then, that the chairman of the Parliament's Party to talk about his wanting to limit the time of his own senators to discuss the biggest case and our opportunity to deal with that saying, or what? What's this all about, Mr. Honorable President? Each one of us should have an opportunity to talk about it and to discuss it. you should be asked without people being so concerned about finishing something. [[The point is, it's a 2nd.]] We'll just finish 1st. and everyone has a time. [[The point is, it's a 2nd.]] [[The president calls.]] We can start talking about negotiations when we are in the middle of the 2nd or 3rd district. This, however, is rude, dignified president, with members of Congress. [[Up front.]] - First round of the second round.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u241	A respectable president. There's obviously a little bit of irritability in people around here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u242	It's just rudeness.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u243	Of course, it is a pity that this is the case when many are in their first talks. Probably no other speech has been held. This is the arrangement offered in Congress. It's kind of sad that the council leaders, including the smaller parts, cannot sit down and finish what we're going to spend a lot of time discussing budgets with 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u244	The Senator knows...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u245	At times, it is said that we should talk and resolve matters. Let's talk. Hv. paritaprevir For Hrafn: Let's talk, and we'll resolve things this way. That's how things work out, isn't it? Why don't you just sit down and settle this case, finish it, and just say, "Hey, we're gonna do this three days, we're gonna finish this on Tuesday next week? [[Up front.]] And what time do we want to spend? We're just gonna negotiate it and we'll agree that we're going to finish it at a certain time. [[The president calls.]] Then it won't be a problem. As long as everything's up and nobody knows if we're gonna talk here for two weeks or more, it's just Christmas coming up and we're going to finish this before that. We're in a hurry. We just have to do this, that's all. There is nothing to be accused of this with any general or president of the council. [[The president calls.]] It's the president of the House of Congress that's going to have to finish this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u246	A respectable president. I don't think there's some huge problem here that needs to be solved with some contracts about speaking time, and I don't hold back from giving a talk, and I'm next on the rosary, and I'm staying somewhere in the night. However, I think it is worth the effort to keep that when you work with a lot of data, data that are often complex and controversial and often strange, it is worth the effort to get a night's sleep. It's worth a bit of a gap between the workmen, but in the Council it's norordained that it's not in the chapters and so proud because they're going to be these great heroes and be here long into the night. [[Up front.]] All right, guys can be heroes if they want to, but that doesn't mean it's wise. We're allowed to do this according to the Senate, we know that. [[Up front.]] This does not mean that it is reasonable. I just want to think that it's not necessarily wise to talk things out in the night, even if it's boring, even if people think it's terribly cool.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u247	Madam President. There's a lot of eggs in the management board, huh? Senators Jón Gunnarsson and Ásmundur Einar Daðason. They're getting tired of something, and they probably have to get home in the back or some Christmas prep, and they're just giving up on budgets, which are the biggest thing we have to do each year, the State's budget. [[Up front.]] There's nothing small underneath. We members of the Parliament cannot be approached to learn that it is time to negotiate a discussion, a discussion that is just beginning at the 2nd. and not nearly all members of Parliament gave their first talk. There is no law against discussing, whether members of the council or presidents, there is nothing to say about accepting the discussion, discussing matters, and considering whether the good changes in the memory of the item can be met. [[The president calls.]] You can do it at any time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u248	V.E.G. President. First of all, I'm quite surprised that the progressive are the ones. Marty's members are involved in such an old-fashioned presentation, as is indicated here. I thought they were only somewhere else.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u249	Where, then?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u250	Other than that, I just want to say that, of course, we're not trying to stop anyone from speaking here. It would be helpful, however, to know how long it would be. Government officials intend to talk about it because this is about planning time. We all have families, such as the one we would like to be with, and there is nothing wrong with planning our time and making good use of it. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] As long as we do not, we are standing here just bibert, continuing to discuss this important matter, discussing it carefully, and analyze it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u251	A respectable president. Then we're back in a material discussion of the budget, which is fine. I'd like to start by talking about a little bit about some pitchless sheep. Now that there should not be any news, it is important to have a baseless budget, and before we reach a baseless budget, did I have the practice when someone called attention to the need for money somewhere to ask back: Are we willing to borrow it? When it comes to government spending, we are, in effect, borrowing. Often the answer is yes, sometimes we should borrow. For example, save a man's life, we're to be lent. If your investment is good, it may be good to borrow money. But a person should ask himself that question when he or she has a down payment on the budget. When there are no more budgets, you need to ask yourself two things. Second, how will you deal with the debt that has already been piled up from collapse in this case? On the other hand, how do you plan to make use of the amount of space that has been created? This puts reason and priorities to the test. Of course, paying off debts is very important. For myself, I feel very uncomfortable that the state owes its head. I realize that it is somehow necessary, so at least I'm told. But I don't like it that much. We still face the fact that interest payments on the debt of the state are the third - largest budget that is very bad. People often say: We pay about one piece of Land Hospital growing every year, an enormous amount of money. When space such as this is formed, priorities can be set. Of course, we always have time to set priorities, but the question depends on how we want to do so. The smaller portion has offered mutual suggestions for setting priorities differently from the majority. I'd also like to review that while we piranha and I are certainly participating in these minor proposals, I would love to see that in the future, one day, there was not so much congregational work on the part of my share. That is the situation we now live in, unfortunately, much at least. I don't think that the 37 minutes I have left to go to all the psalms in this regard, but I think it's right to say that I'm sorry and I hope that in the future there will be coverage of the budget and their treatment will not be as dependent on these specified political lines. I find that sorting has very different priorities. But I don't think it's normal for the emphasis to form from simple smaller parts or more parts, i.e. which classes are in the government and which classes are not. There are factors in the policy of the advance party, at least If you listen to some of his members, who, in fact, have much more in common with individual senators left greener than any member of the Independence Party. That's normal. This, however, emphasizes that it should not be that way, at a council that worked as one would think should be effective, that the line was between government and government opposition. I don't have a solution to this in 36 minutes, but we're discussing the budget, but I thought it best to keep it up in the process and we're going to deal with this problem. There's one thing I'd like to mention, too, before going to some shows. I think it's very important that there's an incentive for the heads of state to give up the rest, at least stay within the budget. There's always a matter of who's responsible. Yes, there is a minister responsible for it, then the executives take responsibility toward him and so forth, but still we always end up having extra cash to make up for something that wasn't according to the plan but could have been exactly as planned. It is possible that there are some catalysts, simple and primitive, within the administration, as if simply being ashamed of humans. But I'd love to see one specific habit decomposed. He is assuming that if an institution maintains its own legal rights, it is not a reason to increase its budget when new needs are discovered or even reduced by funding to the agency on that basis. I don't think so, and I think that phrase is a little too much of a rush to put on some decent impulse system. A foundation for financial gain should be enjoyed. I think it's absolutely necessary if such an impulse system is to be activated. That is what I'm saying. I'm going to go into a few points. The most important thing to me is the disability and pension of my life. Despair and elderly people are the society I see most often experienced injustice on the part of the system. It's not only about the amounts but also about what the arrangement is. The system is extremely complex, and questions you would have thought were simple, even more complex, answers. As a result, legal rights become more difficult, especially for people who are in a very low - graded or anything, rather than with a very low income from the state, disability or pension, and therefore do not have much room or opportunity to hire a lawyer who can go into the system with full weight and find out what is right for a certain degree of protection. The rights of a pensioner and the disability-makers are extremely bad, just because the system is so complicated. It is sometimes said that the system is so complicated that no one can understand it but one man, and that one person says that he does not understand it fully or that he is not sure about it. Which doesn't surprise me, it's very complicated. According to that, there are things we know we can do or should know. There I find the most important phenomenon of all: income connections. In general, I find income connections to be incorrigible. I understand what their objective is. If someone is receiving disability benefits but is still working, people will accept it as a sign or even proof that the person is really working and will have nothing to do with these improvements. All right, I get it. I get it. But this is very bad for disability workers because very many disability workers can do something, work on something. They always have little in mind to choose short periods of time and to be extremely sensitive to all setbacks, whether the company they work for is affected by setbacks or something happens in their lives, which are related even to the fact that they are on disability reforms for the first. This group is always sick. Even if they find a job that they can do to some extent over a particular period of the day or perhaps at some particular time of the year, it is always weak. That is why I naturally feel that disability reformers will receive what they can earn. I know personal people who are in disability and who are generally unable to work but who are able to handle individual tasks, perhaps with a certain amount of spiritual growth that makes it impossible for them to flabble well in certain situations, but in certain situations, they may be overly good at certain levels. I'm really sorry that people like you can't use the skills they have to win, even if they're just limited. They often need to be careful not to work, not to earn money because they are punished for it. I get it. I just don't agree that it's advisable. When it comes to the income of a pensioner's pension, it would be so fun to even the highest. The secretary of finance agrees that the receipts should go, at least before elections, in particular in a letter dated April 22, 2013, signed by kindly signed by the Bjarni son of Benediktsson, president of the Independence Party, the present Supreme Court. Secretary of finance. I agree completely with you. The linking of pension is something that everyone should be able to agree to is wrong. Junior pensioners have earned their pension, he's not a drunk. I don't think it's a good thing to take money from a pension. I disagree with logic when it comes to disability, but I understand it isn't necessarily the evil mind behind it. I simply disagree materially with the wisdom of it. Then it is worth reviewing what we had recently been arguing about, that the rise in disability and pension will be restored to May 1. I would be very happy to support it, especially because we senators at the High Council enjoyed the decision of a conquistador to get backtemporaneous pay raise, which is, of course, very comfortable, especially before Christmas. But I don't like leftovers and pensioners being left behind. There is something about the way we treat this group that makes it leave behind. I think it's very boring. Most important, when people come here and talk about doing so much good for a bunch of desperate old-tempered pensioners recently and then teaching the last government to have done so, and so terrible things to them, I think it's worth a lot less than 120 billion dollars worth. lack of money then available. It matters. Sometimes when it's tough. Councilmen come here and begin to shame the last government, the left government, for having had to curse all kinds of payments to the desperate and pensioner, I find it not particularly honest, respectable to the president. Today, we do not live under the same circumstances as we did in 2009. This is a fact, an absolute fact. A five - year - old would understand that. I can't take it as anything other than thoughtlessness or deliberate outback when people act as if they can compare the situation today with those of 2009. That's ridiculous. He's out in the field. People should not humiliate themselves and the high Generals by pretending that they are not completely out of school because they are. Not enough of it, but I'm going to stop anyway to get to more things. The proposals for the memory of the part suggest that 80 million people receive a prison facility. K. in addition to maintaining a system of prisons that works, so to speak. The problem of the prison system and, in my opinion, the particular Little care is that the so-called maintenance requirement is maintained, i.e. surgery, in recent years, has made the operation of Little-Reunion in short terms. It's not working. It's not a group of paintings that people really like to support. It's not political to support this. But this is something that simply needs to be okay. It's one of the social factors that just have to be okay. If it costs more than we feel comfortable, it has to be. This is not a selective group of languages, rather than many others. Then I'd like to say that the plan for this proposal is 50 million. K. are earmarks marked for which circumstances are particularly bad, whether it is a house or design or whatever. Last year, according to my sources, 170 times was necessary to cut down such measures as outlets, employment, and so on, in order to meet the requirements for design. It was not money to be protected when it was a pasturage. This leads to increased stress, causing increased traumas, which again add to stress. What's probably kept Little-Reals going is a good employee. Of course, we cannot expect to operate prison systems on the good will of employees. We need to reward people for hard work. It's hard work. Under circumstances that are in no way trained to treat, workers get to the finish. I would like to give special attention to the fact that this word comes from prison guards, inmates, former wardens, from prison chiefs. No matter who you talk to in the prison system, everyone agrees on this, these are facts, and we need to fix this. We cannot view this as not enough fun political issues to keep it in order. The system needs to be okay, especially if we're going to contribute to something called reform. There are reforms in the system, such as education and employment. They're not as strong as you wanted them to be, but they exist. But when the money is the way it is, these measures do not make the desired effect. Besides the fact that you would want to go into a much greater reformal policy away from capital but all talk of reform is a distant dream while the circumstances are as they are. It's got to be fixed first. The capital problem has to be fixed. And by the way, Hólmsuk, the ultimate excuse that is often used for whenever someone complains about something in the prison system will not solve this problem. It's not going to make the Little-Larges okay, make the place okay or the design easier. Not at all. Not to be overlooked, though, is a great work that has often been accomplished in the prison system. A lot of people who serve there are worthy of great commendation for doing good. However, if financial support is not available, much of such good things will be wasted, well - meaning, and positive things that we should make full use of. The second thing I'd like to enter is the alduke's budget, but we would like to suggest that the Council's agent be raised by 15 million. K. The majority suggested a reduction of the total body budget by 13 million. K. Now, the U.S. Marshal of the Council has moved to a facility for which the Council has stopped renting. The rent was about 13 million. K. at the same time. By reducing budgets for the same amount, you are expected to have only a free home over your head. Of course, it is not free of charge. There is a number of business items that come with the facility and things that the U.S. agent has had to do there. It is not yet a bioavailability to the disabled, which, in my opinion, is completely absurd. This is one of the main monitoring agencies in my country, directly under the General Assembly, and is responsible for monitoring the European Commission and caring for the complaint of the citizens. And it's not a bioavailability for the disabled. Then they're gonna cut down. I don't think that's the norm, Mr. Honorable President. There are other projects for the house that remain, and then there are security, food, repairs, real estate costs - all the expenses an agent needs. It is not simply that 13 million fell from the sky to an emissary who can use the funds he wants to use, which are initiative - oriented. The Generals agent has been absolutely clear in his case with the General in more than one field. It is up to the General to determine the role of an agent. If his job is to take care of the initiatives, which I claim to be entirely free and have proved to be very important, to the extent that it is not, then we must finance that team, as the U.S. Marshal Generalis feels it would be necessary to give proper consideration to the initiative. The number he's mentioned is 15 million. K. That is why we suggest that the budget be raised to the General agent for that amount so that he can do his job with the highest respect. It does not have to be a long story for any song of trust by the Allied emissary. That's a lot of trust. He cares for many of the complaints of the city, he has also taken part in his initiative, and in the multilingual leak language, his work was invaluable in that discussion. It seems to you that it is suspected that when the Allied Congress and the Government are so overwhelmingly united, they will not be able to do much of this office. I'll tell you right now. I'm sure this will offend someone, but I'm directly pointing it to the Father Houses because the relationship between the Generalis and the government is not normal. It is not normal how the government governs a greater part of the Generals, how the government governs the real country beyond what the General shall do. This relationship is highly abnormal. I will not leave and will not leave it until, first of all, when ministers have stopped being members of Congress too. I think it's a very unnatural relationship, and that's why I find it totally normal to launch this suspect. The U.S. commissioner has used the funds he has received from responsibilities. It is not all right in my opinion that this institution has to put up with money when it itself makes it very clear that in order to take the initiative, it is worth the effort. Time passes faster than you normally think. Then I'd like to talk only about the health system. I'm glad to hear it. paritaprevir Gullish Þór Þórðarson is going to answer me. Now we see in the news, and we know that today Icelanders don't believe that we have a top health quality. There's a lot of pressure to fix it. There has been a long period of lack in the medical system that will likely take some time to repair, but it also takes more money. If the people are asked about the priorities of taxes, it does not matter which age, gender, or category of the tax, the health system is in the first place in the Icelandic nation when it comes to the use of tax money. That's normal. If the purpose of a kingdom was just one, and I'm not saying it is, but if it were, it would probably be running a health system. When you ask about the priorities of taxes, your health system comes up first, and the result is overwhelming. We're supposed to listen to her. We are not supposed to control the budget by polls, but the result is absolutely decisive and could not be clearer. And when we have a baseless budget, we no longer have excuses for not having it okay. Many people would say that we never had any excuses for this. In fact, it takes money to run this system all together, and if money is not important to people, it should not matter if it is cut down. That doesn't make sense. But now there is no room for money. There's time to set priorities for the health system and for the hospital in particular, and then we should. We are to make it up to the point where the nation will begin again to trust that we are actually setting priorities for the medical system. Another group of cases that have been much in the recent discussion is that of refugees and refugees. Today, we received a number of e - mails that challenged us to change a decision, which the Allied will, in fact, take only in the broad sense that we put national law, to refer to an Albanian family from Iceland. Because of lack of time, I'm not going to talk much about it, but it's a common misunderstanding that people are burdening their communities. People are a community. People are economy. More people mean bigger economy. If we succeed in welcoming people - and it is important for us to welcome them and invest in them in various ways, time, patience, tolerance, and, of course, for all the money we have to do to make a success of people - they are making money, culture, and economics, at least for a long time. Of course it's gonna cost something at first, that's normal. To get a newborn child to be a taxpayer, a city worker, takes 1,6520 years. At times, the person may not, but we do not object to putting children in school. We do not control people from having children because they are so expensive to get to someone. Hardly. This is a group of paintings that I think we should consider to be increasingly an investment. Not as a kind of charity, but as an investment, since we are doing good work. It is very important that we do so. These and other problems are often presented in other lands, and they can be learned from them. One of the most important lessons in my opinion is to welcome people. It must be said, as is true of this sect, that his financing tends to be rather unpredictable. You don't see how the world's conditions develop or what the needs are. There is something that we need to be prepared for. I believe that we should be much more concerned with overindulging this sect than we would with overfunding it, we are much more likely to contribute to the long term investment in people than if we cut down in this category. The smaller part leads to about 200 million. K. increased contributions to foreigners. It is not just these points that are worth considering. I also think it's important that, in the discussion of budgets, we talk about funding, lawsuits, business practices, and so forth. More often than not when we talk about practice, one is scolding another. I've held several talks on the importance of computer-circuiting funding, and I'm very glad that in the public financial bill, it was successful to enter a paragraph of the computerization of a budget bill. There's something I insist on creating more transparency than the High Council realizes. Money is transparent in the sense that information is there, but it is important how it is put in place and how it can be used. Now that I'm going to figure out something in the budget, I have to pick out the number and put it into a pill calculus and find some numbers at the Haf living room and aim for, for example, a value index or something like that. It's a hand job on a computer that's not really that different from that and if you had a calculator and paper in front of you, which is absurd in 2015. But fortunately, this will be about changing after we accept the fine bill on public finances that I look forward to voting with. There's a lot more about this about transparency and efficiency than about reducing the number of income taxes from three to two or reducing the value of taxes. Many here rightly point out that simple tax systems are important. Simplifying is a physical factor in transparency and should be respected. On the other hand, you must also realize that technology changes, situations change, and ability to handle and process information also changes, for the better at least at the same time. That is why I always find that talking about the simple tax system in the form of reducing some tax step. If I as a programmer was writing a program that should be calculated into a income tax tax tax, it wouldn't be much more difficult to create a program that expected three tax steps than two. Or 50 million tax steps, if that's the case. The program itself would not be much more complicated, i.e. if you use a program to do what I suggest we do. Rather, it helps to translucency in tax recovery or capital use to show the data in useful formats, in format, and in the format that can be used electronically. What happens is that society itself reacts. Some nerds in a town like me who's interested in this, put up a web, or create programs. That happens, we have an example of this. I mention again, the perchance tax. I don't stand by that web. I don't know where it is. I don't know what the reason is. A gentleman chooses. But no one from our ranks, no members of the council, no one from the state. There was just someone in the town, one person with computer knowledge. He hasn't even needed that much computer knowledge. He used published data, which is the annual bill of the state, in computerized formats and very fine formats, if that's the case. This generates transparency, creating a better format for annual accounts. We are to do the same with money. We are to enable the public to make use of funds so that he can share in the priorities of tasks. I argue that the public doesn't have a good opportunity to do that, not at least if they are dealing with people who have children and are generally busy in life, as most of us are. However, people enjoy better understanding data and linking data. There's a lot of people out in the community, and if not people, companies like Datamarket or other companies who like to put out complicated and boring data in cute and fun marglit plots and cake books and God knows what. That's what matters. I hope that the bill on public funds will be accepted as soon as possible and a new presentation of a budget bill will be received. Only then do I think it is possible to have interesting talks about what can be done with the budget. Only then do I think that there would be an opportunity to look at a more complex way to finance something that you don't see otherwise where the money should come from, or what the different effects the predecessors would have on the budget. All of this will be much easier if the bill is simply published in a computer format. To tell you the truth, why it has not been done before is a mystery to me. Here, members of Congress are often in rows complaining about the release of a budget bill from computer technology, just about how the data are presented on the paper. Now I have to admit that I'm much more used to dealing with computer data and I'm not even sure how to put a bill on paper alone. If we're going to contribute to a simpler tax system and more transparency in that category, this is what we're supposed to look at; information exchange to the taxpayer, to the local parties. This is the way forward in the tax system, not necessarily the concentration of the percentages or the number of the tax steps. There are other things I want to come on. One of them is the fresh side that I love to have the opportunity to mention. It's the funding of a unit. I'd like to mention a particularly interesting policy recently adopted in my fine category of Piranha, which has to do with corporate outcasts. The course is simple in itself, and all of this is under discussion. I want to draw attention to this especially because there are people here who know these systems well, and I look forward to hearing their opinion. The idea is that of an enterprise's income tax to be paid to a rural society where the enterprise has a business-related enterprise. Piratars are now only with members of the United States's United States Assembly, Reykjavík, South and South, but we view ourselves as members of the whole country. When I go to the country and listen to the complaints of people outside of the big capital, I find that more often than not, it's a real resentment that we in Reykjavík pretend and believe we're running all over the country, that we think that people don't really live in the country, they can always come to Reykjavík, and the money in the country can always come to Reykjavík, and then they'll be reassigned back to land. This makes me wonder very much about the actual distribution of power at both the General Assembly and when it comes to the provision of capital over my head. This is often the most damaging of so - called ballots that I have long found very unfair. We have an ideal land for a reason, and it is simply because the interests of people outside the capital area are not to be forgotten, despite the fact that this is part of the nation. It has its faults, such as inseparably words and so forth. But the question remains, Why can't people just choose something more? Whether we talk about individuals or communities, communities, countries, or part of the country, I believe we should be guided by the fact that people in general have the most important control of their lives and of others. This means that we should promote individual freedom, link power with those who have to submit to it. In the foundation, democracy and individual freedom turn around the same object of self - determination. He's on a different scale and in a different form, but he serves in the foundation the same function as I think. That is why I would be very interested to see what an idea such as this would lead to the possibility of developing rural society in financing themselves with what they want to do. A lot of money goes to the state, and then we're here scrambling about where the money should go back to the country. Of course, it would be most reasonable to note that many of the projects in the country may really be affected by the fact that they do so themselves without asking people in Reykjavík. Of course, this is something that needs to be fully explored. I hear from many people I think we know, and I have not tried to confirm it at every opportunity, that the country may ask: Do we have money in Reykjavík? Then the phrase is that the country will produce enough valuables that will simply be used here in Reykjavík and then in the hands of all of this political and foreign society, which will be practiced by the World Congress in finance and so on. If it is that some part of the country could finance these projects themselves, it would be ideal for them simply to do so. That's where I think there's a chance to increase the people's own personal rights in the country. Connect it to the authority it needs to submit to. So enables them to control their destiny better. I think it would be a very positive development for this country. To say that, I'm sure there are some problems with this idea that I'm not. Councilmen and whether the idea is a fault that strikes it, or people see something that can help to make it realistic. But the idea being developed in this new disposal policy of our pirata is, in itself, simple. It is that of the company's income tax should be paid to a rural society where the enterprise has a business-related enterprise. This is also a time for credit taxes to be said, as well, of a merit tax to be paid to the rural society where the trade or sale takes place. Above all, in these final minutes, I'm going to do the IRS report. In my share's proposals, we expect an increase in government funds in the form of tax pay due to increased tax control. It was some years ago when I used more cash than I now use, before I went to Congress, that I noticed that in many places people tend to stamp in the box something I didn't know should be done since I was a teenager and was working at school. I've been thinking about this for a while and wondering how much tax fraud really happens in Iceland. I fear that in our culture, there is a certain attitude toward taxes, that they are really normal and justified. I fear that this attitude has only been strengthened after a collapse. After the collapse, the nation experienced a real lack of trust in politicians and the real existence of this system, the State, for the people of the land. I think under such circumstances, when taxes are high and the value tax is high, at least to the top, it's easier for someone who is on a business that may not work too well to justify his own tax collection. That is why I am impressed with my efforts to promote tax control in an effort to increase tax returns. If this cultural element is rooted, this view of tax gain, it can be very difficult to get rid of it, if at all possible. It's famous in Greece, for example, for how tax loads almost seem to be common sense, kind of nonsense paying taxes if it's possible to avoid it. That's a very unhealthy attitude. We have to keep it up before it becomes a bigger problem, i.e. If my suspicion is right to increase, this is just an illogical suspicion, I must admit. But I thought it was proper to mention this in view of the suggestions we made in the memory of the object. There are other things that could be taken into consideration, but in view of the fact that I have only 30 seconds left in my speaking class, a respectable president, I will not risk being able to get some sense out of my mind at the time, even if it was longer, and then finish my speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u252	A respectable president. Thank you. The Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson spoke well. I just wanted to talk to you for a second. A senator on the jail cases. I acted as if he was worried about those factors, and I agree with him there. I'm glad he took this matter into consideration and in particular the need to put more into the operation of Little Lava, which is subversive and unfundable. I want to draw attention to what. A senator is suggested on the budget bill to contribute 160 million dollars. K. It's a little extra to this party. Also, more than a portion of the legal committee made their proposal to add another 45 million. K. to the seminary, with a total increase of 205 billion. K. between 2015/2016. That's a 14% increase. That's what I'm talking about. Is that not something that a senator would not be pleased with? Does he think he has to do more, or does he have other suggestions for doing so?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u253	A respectable president. However, when the bill was submitted, I understood that 11 million were expected. K. the first numbers I've seen in the bill looked like an increase. I even interviewed as soon as I read it and rejoiced that it provided extra funds, but then I talked to people in the prison system, and I was told that there was still 11 million. K. Restrain. I'd have to take a closer look at that. A senator if my understanding is in any way wrong. I have it from more than one place in the system, but I'm quite ready to look at it better. However, when it comes to the transformation of the majority of things, I welcome it. Of course, it's up to 45 million. K. The money, the rest of the money comes in the extras, which is better than nothing. But our proposal in the smaller section is 80 million. K. The next year's budget goes to these matters, so the budget is available, and this is thought of for a long time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u254	A respectable president. I'm asking you why. A senator likes ideas aimed at saving expenses. Like what? A senator is aware of an average of 30 hours in a 24 - hour period. K. ... inaborrowment of the country's prison institutions, that's 11 billion. K. Every year for every year in prison, as we have discussed, the taxpayers. There are other mechanisms that have been increasingly used in neighboring countries for prisoners who are not dangerous to their environment or who are in security, i.e. to offer more opportunities for community service, electronic surveillance, ankle ties, which save them these costs, as well as to invite foreign inmates to serve in their country of origin. I'm assuming that by placing ankle ties on 130 prisoners, one billion can be saved by abduction. How do you like it? A senator of such ideas?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u255	A respectable president. In short, I like such ideas. I think correction is the only most important way to save for a long time. A word that is used more than it is practisely. Now I'm going to be picking up my Icelandic, respectable president. But such options as community service and electronic surveillance are definitely improving. There's a lot of good things about a bill. The Minister of the Interior Minister for the ultimate punishment that has been reported, and we will discuss further, that is a good change in that subject. True, there are a lot of things in the bill that need to be checked and changed, as I would say. Of course, that way is one of those who may go. One of the most important and highly underestimated is how prisoners have been taken out of prison because there are very many prisoners who have been once in prison. We first start saving if we succeed in breaking that vicious circle. We save most in the prison system by talking about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u256	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a fine speech. There was a lot of interesting things I could say, but I'm not gonna be in it for a minute. I'm going to let you know that with the U.S. Marshal, there's nothing more to do with this institution. In terms of my priorities for health care, I feel that there is something missing. A senator how to do so. There is no doubt that putting more money in there has been a priority, but that's not enough, there are some changes that need to be made. It is also about taking money elsewhere for health care. That's what's missing. For example, the suggestions of the smaller items are inexpensive. Putting 4,000 million on tax control and putting an additional 8,000 million on the increase in interest paid to banks is not funding. I'm gonna ask you what. A senator whether he is concerned, because he knows that this is expected to be the feedback for the poor and older citizens in 9.7%, talking about the income connections he finds unreasonable. [[The president calls.]] It's all true, but you don't do both, that's the problem. The linking points have come to make use of the money for those who have the least of us, but if we take the income connections, we will not have the money to do so. [[The president calls.]] We must have some balance in this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u257	A respectable president. I disagree that my share's proposals are not financed, but in order to continue the conversation, I shall accept that, at any rate, in this argument, because even if it is, the suggestions may be moderate enough to allow there to be room enough, despite the lack of income. Still, we do well to give up some rest and pay off the weightless sum of money. In view of the news we hear about the health system and from people who know a lot about the health system and work very closely with it, there is still a great lack of financial resources, and it is our responsibility to respond to it, even if we forget these less income routes. For the income connections, it is something that cannot happen on one board, which is a system that is extremely complex. I look forward to hearing suggestions from a New Committee committee that will give a full view of how this system will work in the future. That's where I think first I can answer some further information about how I can see myself that the income link could be disabled.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-10-51.u258	A respectable president. Of course, it's hard to discuss such a big deal in such an incredible short period of time. However, no matter what number you put into it, there will be an equal amount of money. It's only the Bank Office that makes that suggestion. It has been stressed that she should be there and do her part, and this is one of its roles. It doesn't matter which number is put into the budget, it just comes out, so there's no change in it. 4,000 million in IRS are naturally inundated. It's completely out of the blue. Everybody knows that. They might as well have set 6 or 8 or 2 or anything, so if you take up the expenses you already have and the rest, you will not end up on this basis. For health matters in general, I am totally involved in this is one of our priorities, that's what we've been doing, but there's no discussion about where to save. I miss it when I talk. Senator.
