ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u1	Borist has a letter from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs asking for deadlines to give a written answer to a letter on the spell. 1068, on tax markets, and on markets of revenues, from the Guðlaugur - given God of Þór Þórðarson. A letter has also been received from the Home Office where request is made in order to give a written answer to a letter on the subject. 909, on action against a man-salter, from the Sagaís Svavarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u2	By letter, dated today, the president has requested this, according to the 8th stanzas of 1st. 13th par. Congress, to the Commission and Control Committee that it deals with the following reports from Government Review, U.S. State Attorney Report, and a report on the affairs of foreigners and immigrants in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u3	V.E.G. President. I'd like to make a sound about the President's conference board looking for the highest degree. President to arrange for the Industrial Minister to meet with a professional committee. Thus, in terms of growth, the Committee is the hospice bill after 2nd. So there's only one discussion left. The committee had done it well and had taken various steps. Then, during the last or last week's contract, we arrived at the highest level. Industrial Minister has fixed the company Food Energy. I wished that the Minister of Industrial Affairs would come to explain this and answer a few questions after the third day of the meeting, a committee week, due to the most serious comments it made, including those that are comparable to the operation of pink farming and food power. This was handled well by all members of the committee, including the president, but on Wednesday a minister could not come and a meeting collapsed. On Thursday a minister could not come and a meeting fell down. Yesterday, there was a meeting, and the minister didn't come. [[The president calls.]] Then I repeated my request. I'm waiting for the highest. The President to assist in getting Ministers to meet with the Committee to discuss this important matter. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u4	For this reason, only the president wants to state that this case is a matter of custody by the Committee, so he wants to get these views first and foremost into the position of the chairman and the head of the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u5	President. I reiterate the request that has been made since then. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller and I believe it's very important to react immediately. This is a very serious matter that involves bad government, not just the fact that a minister does not attend, but the way those associated with the case are used by members of the Independence Party. I think it's very important that we stand on our feet to the executive authority who's been living here on his dirty shoes and claims that the General doesn't have anything to do with it. This is yet another manifestation of it, and it is also very important that the president take full advantage of this matter, leading the council to show some respect for the executive authority.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u6	A respectable president. I come up here for the same thing and agree with them why. Councilmen who've come up before me. V.E.G. The Minister of Industrial Affairs has prayed not to come to a job committee meeting and explain his point. She hasn't shown up yet. This is surprising in view of the repeated use of requests. It's very amazing that she doesn't want to answer for why this special company does not need a special contract like Thorsil was recently signed. This company is to go through this bill, which, although not even passed through, is to be viewed as a general attraction. All of this is very strange, and, of course, she has to answer politically for it. Maybe there's some explanation, but it's annoying not to get it out. I ask that the president take the initiative to have a minister at the Committee's meeting so that we on the committee can perform the role that we are assigned to observe the executives.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u7	The president will only say that he does not know the exact growth in this particular case but will try to learn this by talking to the head of the committee. Otherwise, I call attention to the director of the professional trade committee, why. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson is here and is hearing the recommendations directed to the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u8	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with the comments made here. I am wondering if it is going to be a matter of simply refusing to attend the Council's Committee of Professional Affairs for a reasoned wish; this request has now been expressed and discussed specifically in the media. So, what position does the Council Committee have with the Commission if there are any instruments involved in the perfunctory views that lead the minister into his office records? How, on the other hand, is the Senate going to perform its own surveillance work? I wondered, " Is there any reason why the president might not be able to look at the committee when the committee has been asked to come without the secretary's counsel? ' Considering that, I can't see better than the committee's a bit len in their strategy.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u9	A respectable president. It's normal. paritaprevir For example, the Ragnhes Ragnheiður of Árnadóttir is in a fierce race before the Senate committee, and she doesn't want to come up until a discussion, for it seems that in this pink farm language there are fish underneath a rock and it doesn't smell well. So I've asked the Minister to come here for a special discussion in the state hall itself, where members of the council would have the opportunity to discuss this peculiar matter directly with her. I request, a respectable president, that we be made already at a meeting tomorrow, because the matter is urgent. The bill on which this strange deal is based is here to go to the 3rd. It is a joy to see how the director of the employment committee has responded, calling attention to things that were not yet to come, including those that appear to represent the legal body for a person who is interested in the case directly and personally, except for some other traditions that appear to be involved in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u10	A respectable president. Over 700 million. K. a barbaric agreement in the U.S. District. Industrial Ministers to men or members who are used in the administration of the government - I would have thought that under such circumstances a minister would strive to attend the employment committee and explain the situation. I would think that all the circumstances and facts in this case called for a clear explanation, and in no way did I attempt to avoid giving information to members of the Parliament who are looking for information on the matter and on the matter of Congress, information. It's absolutely unprecedented if it's the highest. The Minister of Industrial Affairs intends to behave in this matter as if the Internet was just not invented and could be done without anyone finding out anything. That's ridiculous. Of course. President is using the Minister to meet with the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u11	Mr. President. V.E.G. In these last days, the president has shown the same zeal for others, being loved and respected by the council. I'm sure he'll make sure it's the highest. Industrial and commercial ministers come to see the committee, even if it needs to be dragged. On the other hand, I believe that the matter is so growing that it is completely normal for the council to be discussed. A special discussion has been offered here. But I noticed it last night in Kashlight. A minister defended the matter by referring to a bill that has not been approved. It's very strange to me, and I've never known it before. I propose, Mr. President, that this case will enter the council in exactly the same way as the Supreme Court. Minister has a special contract for Thorsill. Then, as the U.S. Senate, we can just discuss it here and then all the sides of this matter will arise.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u12	A respectable president. It's as if this government can't do anything without somehow disrespecting the council, just to remind us that it's the government that thinks it's up to it. We've talked about this for quite a while, and I think it's time we get a chance to discuss some material matters without ever having to go over government careers with the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u13	V.E.G. President. Only to reiterate my request that I moved here to the highest level. President for the Minister's arrival to the Committee to Re-Elect. This is because the resounding bill is only after one discussion, and it has been shown, in this dissociative agreement with Food Energy, from the Land Association of Fishing, is a major comment that includes the highly competitive position of other enterprises in the article, which has about 65% of the world market already. Then it goes on to say that if 3,000 tons of pink farm come in, with an indiscriminate contract of 700 million, it's a very competitive situation. In fact, the chances are that with Iceland's interests in mind, there will be no more than a drop in pink products from now on. A respectable president. I point to that, that is what I have to discuss with the Minister, that, according to the EEA Convention, it is forbidden to provide state assistance that has failed to disrupt competition, such as by an appeal to certain companies. For this reason and for the situation here at the council, and for some reason the minister came with the Thorsil deal here, but not this one, whom the Minister must come to the Committee. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u14	President. I saw this minister, who refuses to appear before a committee, here at the Assembly Hall, and I'd appreciate it if the Minister could come here and say he was familiar with the committee's invitation. You feel that this is a matter of putting in almost a hold-out period until they are finished. I don't understand how this is going to develop here and get all those bad things that have just come up in the last few days. It's just as if it's okay for the government ministers, both present and ex - because I'm going to remind them that former Minister and current senator Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, refuses to appear before the administrative and surveillance committee. It's not just one thing, it's all.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u15	President. I had asked to have a word with what. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigllionsson, but since there's no sign of him anywhere, I just want to direct this discussion and cups to all the senators of the House. It has to do with national pay. I wanted to ask you, fine senators of the House of forward, if you will agree with what I'm going to do here. On October 4, 2011, a plagion proposal for national payment was made at the General Assembly. It says this word: The Commission is obliged to agree on Generalis's will and start preparatory work on the application following the approved application. - They're talking about an EU Memberal negotiation application. Go on says: A report by the World Council Committee of Parliamentis provides strong criticism of the Commission and the implementation of the European Commission and points to the need for counter-impliatory improvements. Here's what's kind of more fun in view of what's been going on lately, and I'd like to ask if you guys, okay? Congress officials, do not agree: It has been proposed by the Council to withdraw the application for involvement in the European Union. A general council alone has the authority to retract the application, but it is reminded that the same matter is now as with the application's approval. That was a good time. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, who put her synonym in this way and I would very much appreciate the answers from the heads of Congress whether they agree that only the General Assembly can withdraw the application of European membership in the form of a synonym.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u16	Mr. President. As we know, a part of the government's reported debt action was to allow people to use their own special property, tax-free, in the sense that state and rural communities give up taxes from the share of the special savings paid on the given mortgage of their owners, to lower their capital. The law of the law is clear that the payments should go to the reduction of the loans' head. Now the news is coming, and I've got several examples in my hands, that the project is different. To some extent, I do not know how much, standing up, or borrowing, so that even soon before their pay, large amounts of credit pay will be paid in paying up large sums of interest rates and compensations, and a reduction in the head position will likewise be reduced. This is a violation of the law, and it is a very reprehensible and serious operation. For example, if a loan is made every three months, let it be said that the pay date on February 10 is passed by the bank, or from the owners, through a bank on February 2 or February 8. This will include collections of almost three months of interest and compensation that are reduced from payment before reducing the head seat. This is not in harmony with the law, and this results in a moral problem for the loan board. Let us see that this is a payment without payment. On the other side, this is actually a way for the borrower to get his tax-free special savings out of the bank to consume the result of the loan. [[The president calls.]] Neither was the law. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, I believe the Generals and those who are expected to handle this project will have to handle this matter very strongly. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u17	A respectable president. Today and yesterday we are informed of the government's plans to entertain some companies and others not. That's what coincidences always do, they scrawl the company's competitive position. Some companies get a discount on taxes, some companies get so - called training grants from the state, some companies have got up to a billion in favor of government and rural society, and they've got it in their hope that when companies grow and prosper, they'll be paying proper taxes and expenses. Some of these companies get so close to paying no income taxes, since they have so conveniently set up a mother's company so much that it all leaves the country. We know this. Building grounds are often said to solve the need for agreements. In the past of the government and this government, most of the contracts have gone to companies located in the southern part of the country. Since when do such areas need to be developed? It's all fucked up. The last confusion is the contract with the Matrix. It is not clear whether the State is with him in creating a higher position of an enterprise that immediately takes place in the marketing position with the grant. In addition, the owners of the company are linked to government officials, and of course questions arise about corruption. How else can you be if counsellors are eager not to let such things be heard? Why, then, do they not explain the matter better? Why don't they come to a meeting of the professional committee? And how on earth, a respectable president, can ministers of the Independence Party, with all their markets, justify the favor of some companies in excess of others?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u18	V.E.G. President. All day long last night, we discussed the letter of the foreign minister, as is known of all who were expecting an explanation for the application of the letter. To me, it is most important to know the location of the members of the council was made up of this letter and the preparation for the entire trial arrangement. We know the source of the government's opposition. She was none. No information was sent there, we heard about the case in the media when the letter was given abroad. I challenged the council members to answer questions as to when the decision was made to send the letter but not to return a pact proposal on the matter. Who made decisions and where were they considered, as big a foreign matter as that of the memberal parish? What was the reach of the EU to prepare the letter? It was said that there was some conversation, but it is said in the letter that recently Iceland and the EU had agreed on the status of the Member State. Did the senators do anything about this? I think it's important that people do something honest and tell us what it's like to do. It is important, too, who wrote this letter. In addition, we must insist, and must work hard to see that all data will be submitted, recorded on phone calls, recorded in memos from earlier meetings, which document was submitted by the government at the time of this decision, because in the work of the current government's work rules, both phone calls and meetings should be recorded in all legal matters. We've heard of the leak problem that it failed badly there. Hence, there must have been more of this requirement, and there must have been more careful when this case was handled. [[The president calls.]] I challenge the council members to enter the discussion and answer these questions and let us hear how things were going for them. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u19	A respectable president. When the recipient of a letter does not understand or down it, and when the sender himself does not know what to do, it is long time to retract the letter. A respectable president. It has just been embarrassing to observe how many history presidents of the administrations have been about the content of a letter from our minister in foreign affairs to our greatest foreign interests. It is embarrassing for us then to hear from our major European Union countries that they do not understand where we are going and pray not to have to interfere with Icelandic affairs, but are not in a position to answer questions about our status now, whether our application is still valid and whether it can be continued. I think this charge must be to all of us the disgrace and the inability of the management team to stop being oppressed by their minister by threatening them because they have to overthrow the government if they are going to stop this progress but simply call for the judicial action that everyone knows is still valid and therefore no foreign minister will be able to change.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u20	V.E.G. President. As many know, in recent months and years the financing firm has lost several court cases. This is a case both before the Supreme Court and also in the province. Often these are matters that have precedents for other loan agreements, which have been published by the financing company. Recently, in Iceland's Supreme Court, a description of two judicial cases was lost. It is estimated that the judgments can affect up to 10,000 loans. In view of the findings in the courts, a statement was made to customers and to those in the matter. It suggests that the court's judgment was more clear about important matters of opinion. According to a description, there are various problems that can be resolved on the recalculation of non-discrimination agreements on the grounds of law, terms, and the gains of condemnation in the Supreme Court. Positively, there is an understanding within description, an understanding that a section of the loans was bad, and a recalculation is to be made on present issues. Negative is, and, in fact, unacceptable, to believe that two or three months are in recalculation. Those who feel that they have the right to recalculation on loans on account of these judgments are to apply on the website of Description. As soon as recalculation is required, prior recalculations should be canceled if they occurred. That's very pathetic. The need for recalculation because of these loans is not okay at all. Icelandic law states, for example, that financing companies and financial institutions should take the initiative to recalculation from consumer loans, which include health insurance, as well as loan agreements and property contracts that have been paid for private use by automobiles, and here I refer to law No. 38/2001. In this situation, it is imperative that the market monitors, such as the UN, point out the descriptions and other financial contributions to the regulations of these laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u21	V.E.G. President. The United Nations Children's Convention since 1990 is a very important human rights contract. Its objective is to ensure a certain minimum rights in various areas, which the experience shows whether children have an acceptable quality of life and can develop a mental and physical desire. The vast majority of the world's countries have committed themselves to respecting the children's covenant. Iceland did this in 1992, and the contract was adopted in Iceland in 2013. The United Nations Child - Court Committee is monitoring Member States' commitments and taking out the position in Member States every few years, publishing a report stating that the Member States can improve their commitment. In order for these reports to be most useful in ensuring children the minimum rights to be said in the contract, by permission of the president: In each Member State, its reports should be readily available to the public in their country. The Court's Committee published reports on the state of affairs in Iceland in 2003 and last year 2012. Iceland is in the world's top row regarding public access to the Internet. So it seems obvious that the Icelandic government must have translated these reports in Icelandic when they came out and published them on the website of relevant recruitment and institutions and at least on the Homepage of the Ministry of State, which is specifically responsible for human rights. But I guess that's not the way it is. It's not the way it is. These assessment reports of child - care committees are not available on websites of recruitment and institutions, and actually I understand that they have not been translated into Icelandic. Is that okay? Does this indicate that the Icelandic government takes commitments according to the children's covenant sufficiently seriously? However, the reports in Iceland are better addressed to the website of the United Nations Child Rights Committee - than in English. I'm sorry, but I'm afraid that the largest part of the children that the contract especially deals with will not be able to understand them when they are in English. I urge the Ministry and all of us to get on with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u22	A respectable president. I'd like to make a reference to the problem the Allied Parliament is currently facing, and I'd like to consider its dealings with the Commission. I'm going to run some tests at the highest. Governments to handle a large foreign policy past the council and to act like a conquistador proposal made after the election fall automatically out of force at election. There is this doubt about many other matters based on the synopsis and the state of the council toward the Commission getting weaker. I would like to propose a greater part of the employment board, which is going against the framework of the legislation, and take project management over a policy frame of action and then set up years of work to agree on the protection and use of natural areas. Next, blurred descriptions are the highest. Industrial and commercial ministers on the Isthmian Convention based on a bill not approved by the General Assembly which appears to be directed against companies in the same sector as benefit for the head of the Independence Party. During the last term, they concluded that the government had then been unusually aggressive and inaccessible. At this point, the Generals'problem may be that more things are being done in the highest part of their lives. The present government directed the actions of that government opposition, either as members of a congregation of presidents or presidents of the classes. It seems that because of this role, they have not somehow made it and have become more aggressive and inconspicuous rulerships. Allied respect is at stake, and it is not a matter of public opinion. The Congress and the democracy are under and at the same time the interests of the common people.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u23	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir It's a G. Harðardóttir for taking over both the Supreme Court and the district rights here at the Senate Hall and taking over a matter in one minute. I didn't come up here to talk about it, though, but to mention that today's National Bank of Iceland's main meeting has been held. The subjects of this bank have given me a lot of thought lately, so I was curious about what it would take to make you sit at this main meeting. I had it checked for myself, after I had spoken to some of the noble men; and they sent a message for me to the bank of the land. The bank's answer was, with permission of the highest power. President: There are mainly shareholders and their counselors who have the right to attend the main meeting. Shareholders and their counselors, the state has 97% in this bank. It is a question of who will go before the State, whether it is the Ministry of finance, or whether it is a minister of finance, or some government officials on his side. Go on says: In addition, several delegates, such as members of the Rapporteurs and accountants of the bank, will be present. In that case, the press is especially invited to the meeting in the local Kingdom Hall of Jehovah's Witnesses. Last paragraph, Mr. President: Although they are welcome to sit down, they are asked to report to the reception table when they arrive and are informed. I must admit, Mr. President, that I am not familiar with this invitation, to make an account of the National Bank's welcome today to attend the main meeting. I must say, I find it more insulting that while the media and special guests are invited to this meeting, the generals will not be able or invited to attend this meeting. We are responsible for this bank even though it is hf, it is owned, and we must have a requirement to be able to observe its activities.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u24	A respectable president. I'm going to take an example. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson's son and making a subject subject for young people, but it's only possible that we sit on a tripolitic committee here at the General Assembly, which is of special interest to them. I would first, during the short time I have, to focus on a support center that is being driven for children with rare, serious, incurable diseases, which was set up in 2012 after the campaign's collection of land on all goods. This supportive center is designed to support families and children with rare diseases, but that group of children often has very few resources after the hospital escapes, and it is our goal today that sick children can stay at home and live daily with their families. This morning, at another meeting involving the affairs of children and young people, I discussed mental illness in that group. I must say, in fact, that matter has long troubled me, how much more it gets to make children and young people feel bad spiritually. In that relationship, when I was listening to the discussion this morning, I immediately thought that it would be necessary to start a supportive center, such as a guide to children with mental illness, thus reducing the pressures of emergency medical care. In view of the experience with a guide, it would simply be very good, practical, and wise to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u25	A respectable president. I want to direct my words to the point. paritaprevir Sædstein's Sæmundsson on the subject as a matter of course. The employment committee has had hand and hand-to-head agreement with Mat Gas, the contract that has been discussed in the media, and is up to over 700 million. K. A contract has been made at the National Institute of Fishing and Fishing, which greatly upsets the competitiveness of the people who operate in the same sector. Now it has been confirmed that one of the firm's owners came to the committee during the course of the case, but the member of the National Legal Committee of Iceland, did not find any reason to mention the matter specifically or to warn the committee, as it were, that there might be a conflict of interest. There is now a minister who makes the agreement in advance for the approval of the bill that lies before the committee, so it can be said that the continuation of the matter is only in the hands of the committee. Business committee. Hv. The head of the committee, Jón Gunnarsson, has repeatedly expressed himself in the media on this matter. I'd like to ask you what. A senator's opinion of the situation is indicated by what he believes. There are many moral questions, and surely there is good reason to consider them carefully. I'm asking why. A member of Parliament whether he is prepared to reconsider the matter in the flesh, to review the matter in particular, to cover moral matters, as well as other questions about cousinism and political corruption that have come up in the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u26	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much for bringing this up. In fact, in this case it is this way that it is not made up of itself to the job committee for a formal discussion, at least it has not been discussed at the meetings of the committee I have sat on. But still, like a dog. A senator correctly pointed out, the European Union of fish farming has established a meeting with the Committee and expressed concern. Now it is that we in the Committee have repeatedly received a representative of the Ministry to explain the matter and explain how it may be related, fell or failed, the bill being discussed in the Committee and under discussion. I can assure you what. The senator will take the time and work hard to review the bill and the contract accordingly. I wasn't aware of the possession of this partner. I do not make it a habit to make a special effort to place property on members who are being discussed at one time. But now, of course, in this country in which we live, in the small, we cannot help but avoid being related to one another. I don't know if it's the right way to put specific laws on that or legal requirements that you shouldn't be related, i.e. for the possession of an enterprise. But for himself, as I say, the holding of this company or others doesn't bother me. That is the natural point of the law, and it will be done. It has to be taken into account that these contracts have been made with more companies and have slipped through the council, and soon this deal looks like it was their deal. [[The president calls.]] But we will go over this matter thoroughly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u27	V.E.G. President. I take my leave of silence to have a place to say. paritaprevir Elín Hirst. Here again is a letter of the highest concern. The minister of state to the European Union, which he sent as his representative, is, in effect, the part of the matter that has been presented here in the play, that is, the understanding of the government of the Senate. He seems to be that the government can do whatever it wants as long as most of the money protects her from trust. I completely disagree with that understanding, and most people who understand something about the government, but I would like to understand how such a government, according to the government, works. It's not easy, because it's a way of governing that's classified. There is no document on the opinion of the greater part of this matter, since no matter of Congress was made from the Independence Party and the Front Class on this letter and its address. That's why I'm here and I need to ask some members of the council to figure out how this case came about. That's why I want to ask you why. The senator's presentation of the letter, the agreement with the methodology, and the general approval of the delegates who received a presentation in advance, not on the radio. Then I'd like to ask what too. A senator who has been observing Icelandic politics for decades is actually offering himself to a financial agency or to exercise legal authority in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u28	A respectable president. Thank you for these questions from what? paritaprevir Sigríður Ingibjörg the daughter of Ingadóttir, I'm very kind to answer them. I hope I can get through all of them and remember them. As a result, I enjoy most of my jobs. Secretary of state. I feel that he is alert to the work and responds properly, as in the Ukraine and the United Nations issue of equality, and I have not been in that position at the highest level. Minister. But as for this matter, I want to look at it in a larger context. It is reason to consider that the agreement between the Government and the Minister with the Foreign Affairs and the rules that apply. I don't think there's enough consultation with the committee. It is also true of the last government and is sure to be the same as when you look back further. In many cases, without consultation with a foreign press committee, I feel that the committee should have a bigger role than it really is. Based on the example we have here, I don't feel that the Secretary of State has gone out of his jurisdiction in this case, but I believe that a review and new policy must be made to explain more accurately the rules of the State Department of State for the Council of the Council of State to support the committee. In terms of the questions you pointed to me directly, you asked when the members of Congress - yes, and the reaction was generally they, as you put it, that this case was within the framework of what we could see, and no particular comment was made on it. [[Up front.]] But the main thing in my case is maybe I'd like to have these matters looked at in a larger context. That's the point I'd like to communicate here with the council members.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u29	President wants to direct it to what? Congress officials are taking care to address their talks.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u30	A respectable president. I'd like to discuss this idea that the government has, how it is, and how it will act against the Allied Council. It has been reported that the government intends to act as it pleases as long as there is more in the council to defend it with distrust. This is repeated in the talks of those giving the highest order. Government. All I want to do is go out on a little comparison and try to give us a little hope here in the way we clean up the shit we've gotten into. If we are determined to stay within it, we will only stay within what we can do, regardless of respect for the Council, respect for this institution, I want to point out that there are things that each member of Congress can do, in more or less. He can present as many modifications as he wants; he can demand a roll call at every vote if he wants; he can install as many written requests as he wants. You can go that way. And what if someone could reason, saying, "No, it's too much, but now the Council has certainly lost its respect. Then you may be able to call the republic president and say, "Well, just solve the council. What would the Council say, what would a respectable president say? Probably a pussy, and hopefully, because that's not how you treat the council, that's the whole point. Rather than allowing the conduct of the government, and allowing it to act entirely toward the council, and solely according to its own understanding of what it may not, as long as it cannot be distrusted, I have three ideas. 1st Separate General and Government, i.e. that individuals should not be Ministers and senators at the same time. 2. Let us set up the nation's legal rights so that the people themselves can settle matters when we do not succeed here. 3. The exorbitant right of a smaller section of the Generals so that a third of the Parliament can bring in a national bill when we fail to act like adults at this workplace. These are mild, inexpensive, and simple solutions that will affect us. Maybe we can stop this fucking sandbox game. I'm sorry... [[The president calls.]] Finally, I suggest that meetings of regular committees be usually opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u31	President asks the senator to observe his words. A senator dropped an inappropriate word here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u32	That's right.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u33	A respectable president. Here we pick up the thread that was removed in a discussion about a foreign minister's report on a letter he sent to the European Union last week and is a few different explanations of what the letter says or which was actually the goal of it. The debate at the council has focused mainly on this and, in addition, perhaps, what the Commission's position is actually in the Republic of Iceland. I want to stop especially at these two points, i.e. On the one hand, what was the ultimate? The minister of the State was going to say, and then, at any given time, what the Commission's commission is to make policy decisions. In democracies, we require that we make it very clear to what authority the Commission has to implement and implement the democratic will of the Lawgiver. The lawgiver has certain ways of communicating with the executive authority, and that's what we'll do with legislation, and that's what we'll do with Congress resolutions. In fact, there is no other way for the legislatator to communicate with the vacancy except in this way and then, of course, it is important that it is done as clearly as possible. It is important that such guidance is clear and not only. In 2009, a synoptic proposal was adopted, and this synoptic proposal was unusual in the sense that there was clear guidance for a minister on what existed, and in that relationship it is not enough to look to political interpretations of the situation but simply to take the case off the case from the council. The resolution proposal was adopted by a representative of all political groups then located at the General Assembly. It was a very important decision, and when it was such a big decision, it was certainly necessary for a minister to receive a very clear and clear commission from the council. After the council had then made its decision, the guidance to the minister, began a process that has not been changed by the council, and I am talking about the General Assembly of Iceland, regardless of any election at any given time. The Agency does not really have an independent position to reverse or to begin a journey in a different direction, but the Council has foretold that unless it is decided by the Council. This is as simple as it is, and in reality, when we were all agreed a year ago that the warrant was at the council to guide the minister to compromise if it was a political wish, it was so when we discussed a proposal for Congress resolution, that the dispute was a reminder of the campaign that the people should decide to break up or not break up. For a review, a report from the Economic Institute was discussed first, followed by the highest political proposal for Congress. A minister discussed, and all these discussions took five days. There was quite a discussion that took a long time to cover an unannounced report. A minister who was then drawn back and reassorted. Sadly, there were two serious problems with the presentation of the case at this time, the one that was unannounced for the council, and the fact that the council had not completed a report by the Council of Economics when the Congress covenant was directed into the council. Both of these made the discussion longer because there was also a need for formality, unfortunately. The government soon realized that the matter was on the beach, that although it had the power to get a head count in the Senate hall, it would not have a political force to finish it so that the matter would be a sleepout. paritaprevir Ármannsson, son of Aargia. And it wasn't just, so we're reviewing it, the opposition that stayed awake and stood up for democratic views, but also the members of the administration committees, as well as the general public, who signed so many thousands of different national regulations and stood out in the East day after day to remind us of the source of the agency. Then, in March of the month, the decision to withdraw from this trial is decided in two weeks, so that suddenly we did not argue that the matter had to be handled by the council; rather, it was decided that it would be useful to do so by letter, or by letter? Then, today, yesterday and yesterday, and the day before yesterday, it is really a speculation of the days: Was something really breaking up? Was something really doing? And it's kind of the most awkward thing about the situation, just as it is right now. It would be helpful to list what separate government leaders have said about this, first, in the highest order. Secretary of state, second of all. Prime Minister, the highest. Financial and economic ministers and what. President of the Foreign Affairs Committee Birgir Ármannsson. If it were so well for them to have their own interpretations, and that would be all there would be then, but it is not. Worse or more complex, the European Union does not know what the letter was and does not understand the situation, but does not, despite the fact that a minister and a government had a consultation with the European Union on these letters. It has now been reported that this letter has been considered, but the Council of Ministers had decided not to get involved in the political debate in Iceland, that is the situation. I can't see any better than it's happening now for the second time to the highest. The minister of state is doing quite a bit of an effort to bring this mess to the finish, first last year and then again, and there's an empty stomach landing for the second time. Of course, you are wondering, " How will men reset a position that has come up, and I am, in fact, the only way that this letter will be detracted, and the second, that according to the proposal of the chairman of the government groups, where the people will be asked for their stand on the continuation of discussion? '
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u34	Mr. President. Hv. A senator is usually the most expressive of all women and comes to the core. I felt as if she were being mild - tempered when she spoke of it being an absolute stomach landing. Minister. On the basis of how we usually use Icelandic to describe events, how can we not agree that this is a crash? You can't call it anything but a crash. What I want to see is what I want to wake up. The senator is how this was prepared. It was normally committed here at home, the decision made at a government meeting, no one told, not even the council. Then it becomes clear that a fine presentation was prepared in foreign languages and at home, and before reading the letter, everyone, including us through the media, was pushed into complete wear. Then, when you read this letter, it's like the highest. The president has first pointed out that the word "measure " does not occur there. There's a big difference between the letter and the letter. The president of the Generals pointed out and on, on the other hand, a two - way [ Credit Line] Then I wondered: " What was the original purpose? What does it say? A senator of my explanation that it was, in effect, an attempt to trick a particular group of people, world vision, the people who put their full trust in the highest power. A minister who struck a timbrel in his simple and innocent and childish faith in him and rejoiced? How does it matter? A senator that these people are suffering now? I think it was mainly the group that was supposed to be deceiving, not the rest of us. Their anger was to be put to rest. I view this as a disaster for the success of world vision and say, according to the talk of the Supreme Court. Minister yesterday, all the evidence is available. [[The president calls.]] It is a formal application, but the next issue on the program is to provide national guidelines.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u35	A respectable president. There's been a delay in the development of some kind of cow conversion over the two weeks, i.e. from March 3 until Thursday, because March 2 or 3 was the highest. One minister in the press said that there would be an arrangement for convergence. Two weeks later, a decision had been made to do so in another way. Why and what was it, and what can you read in the political bitch behind it? At the very least, it is clear that in many respects the Independence Party is far more difficult than that category has been for years. V.E.G. The secretary of finance has tried to push them into conflict in time, hoping that, as the situation may be, time would solve that conflict, but it has, in fact, been less than that. The situation is, in effect, that one side is very heavy on the World Visions, and the other is a powerful group of independent people in the commercial world, who have come to the front of a new group. That's what's at the highest. A financial and economic minister stands before him as chairman of the Independence Party who makes himself available not to sit at the Council of Government as the head of the Independence Party usually and the head of the Independence Party, who lives on with a holding of 25%. The same leader of the Independence Party is now facing the challenge of having participated in stamping this method to the highest degree. Ministers of foreign affairs and have not yet seen the land with its political consequences. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u36	Mr. President. I have no joy at the dissociation of classes. But it is quite clear that one of the highest. A minister has come to know that I do not think he intended, but all evidence suggests that this is the grain that fills the measure of European independence. As a result, I assume that they will form a new category, a restoration which today is a group organization of some sort that will become a full movement and will be offered at the next election. That's why I think that the ugliness is at the highest. The minister of the foreign government made it necessary for the sector to escape from the Independence Party, become a new category, and whatever he receives, he does not have to get too much confidence in it, in view of the polls that have been before this year, that the government would fall. I think it's important. Therefore, I also feel that it is important, from the opinion of individuals, even to put them in line for the evidence now, that Iceland should be a member of the European Union or not, that we all agree on the main princeship that it is the people who are supposed to be hired. I say on my behalf that if national law were to lead the people to say no, then, of course, I would go a little sad to grace that night, but I would rise up like Einherji's Óðinn. But then I think the next item on the program would have to look for ways to get Iceland in some way into a bigger coin area. I think that up ahead is the last time with the Icelandic crown. I'm worried about how she angers and how I feel about her, and for me, the European Union is nothing more than a device to secure stability, improve the ideals of Icelanders. It's not a religious thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u37	A respectable president. I'm not exactly as philosophical as that of a boy. A senator not to rejoice if the Independence Party split up. I think I'd be pretty happy to tell you the truth, and I think I'll just admit it. What's really happening, what's in the air is that right now, at halftime in the government. The prime minister of the reign of Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, is becoming a turning point. We're going into a new chapter, not only in the sense of the period as such, but because it is now premise that the government's problem is not just the way it sets up with the rich and those who are on top of the community, who are impatient with all because it's not authorized to do it, it's cosine to complete one particular responsibility that is in debt, but is now becoming clear to the people that pride and arrogance and incorruption, clumbing all her office, not going to the length. Fortunately, no one can stay for long at Iceland's Management Board, which doesn't do well and shows little humility, at least In between you and me. At least that's not true. ... sowewout. A senator agrees that the government of Sigmundur, Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, is beginning to disappear, and it will surrender before the ultimatum is over.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u38	V.E.G. President. After yesterday's health-day talk about the highest report. Secretary of state and the crash of that letter was at the highest level. The foreign minister is drawing a very sharp picture, and the discussion hopefully leads to that. First of all, I can't see that there is much protection against the interpretation that the 2009 Parliamentary proposal is still valid, and the application will be canceled only by proposal and majority payment at the General Assembly. Thus, the council can confirm the letter and explain better than the discussion has shown, which leads to a understanding other than the continuation of the council arrangement. This has also been presented in support of an older council proposal from the candidates in which they emphasized in their opinion that these matters would never have to be handled differently from the coming of the council, so the letter has become virtually unmarked. It has also been said of the continuation of the discussion that it is normal to consult the nation for confirmation or agreement or position, let us, rather, say, whether to continue our discussion. I think it would be most reasonable that such a proposal would be adopted during this council and that it would be paid nationally as everyone at first because it would be extremely important for us to determine what the will of the nation was, and as indicated by the previous speaker, we will, of course, submit to that conclusion. When this 2009 clause was launched, I knew as much as one of those who have supported the United States that we had fought for an obligatory application. However, we always made an effort to achieve a parapolitic solidarity in this matter. This would be, not a group of political issues, but a case that the people should always handle. It has been criticized that the nation has not been assigned to attend the talks, but the United States and other classes and the General Assembly of the Icelands were always free to take Iceland into the European Union. It will never be done except by national law on a contract that will be submitted to the nation's approval or demonstration. I think it's important to keep this up. This discussion has also revealed what has been going on over the past year regarding the Treaty's promise to provide a report and analysis of what the European Union's position is, what the situation of conversation would be. The University's Economic Institute of Economics was consulted for such a report, and some found it in amazing cases at the highest level. Just as the discussion was about to begin, when we were about to read the report, a suggestion was made to end the discussion, almost expected nothing further to be discussed. We remember the responses then that were huge and the number of signatures we received, to 53,555 signatures, where people protested that the process would be stopped. It is amazing to see that we are in the same position again a year later for the unprecedented mess. Governments in this case, where they were going to play hide-and-seek and escape the will of a nation and assembly and make a suggestion. And then stand in the East, listening to people like the Guðrún - given daughter of Pétursdóttir and a young woman, Jóna Sólveig Einarsdóttir, discuss these matters. In particular, I was impressed when Jóna Sólveig Einarsdóttir read a 2011 minister's moral code and went through the way the government goes completely contrary to the rules that deal with honesty and honesty and to use it with caution, moderation and reasonableness, and without regard for his own interests. [[The president calls.]] It also speaks of the public interest and enlightenment of the nation, cooperation with, etc. All of this has been broken, and it grieves me that we should not work better together and resolve matters in a way that is not the secret one. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u39	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The divine nature of Hannesson before his speech, and I want to agree with him that it is very important that the nation's will for the future, but I think that it is as important as where the matter is going right now in these days, that the will of the council for the future, i.e. whether we would like to keep the 2009 synonym in force or whether the Council would want to change its policies. In relation to this, I'd like to ask you why. A member of the council on the understanding presented in some cases. Senators who brought up the conversation yesterday that the government can do what the government wants to do as long as the board defends her. What is the reaction? A senator with such words, and how does he value our position here? Are we some kind of deportation agency, as this indicates or who will be the role of the Generals?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u40	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the answer. I think it is of utmost importance in this large matter that has shown itself to part the nation in its ranks, that the people are allowed to give their opinion. Considering the foregoing, it is in itself a compromise of the case, i.e. We agree that we will now only allow the people to speak. It is true that we need to get the will of the council but first to the highest. A minister chooses not to submit reauthorities, tries to avoid the council because they gave up the matter. Last year, I think it's by far the most natural thing to do in a national law. I think it's the most natural thing to do right away. With regard to the coming of the council and whether the government can do anything, it has been very much discussed yesterday and also in the media that it is at the highest level. The government has turned things completely upside down. I mean, the government and the council have nothing to say about that, but the Commission or the government are, of course, supposed to be running the Council's commission. I have earlier mentioned in my first speech that the standard for a community is democratic, whether it is freedom of speech in the country, whether people have the right to have opinions, is the position of the lesser part at any given time. Despite this, it is the highest. The president and, indeed, others have noted that the greater part of it has no need even to be confirmed in a church hall, which is a natural disrespect for the status of the individual at the council, even though it is regarded as an amazing failure to plan for it, with 51% votes in the last election, to shun the other half of the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u41	V.E.G. President. I think that's what we're talking about. When a senator said that he would be the chief, he hit the nail. A government is turning things upside down because you get the impression of one case after another that it's just the highest. A government in charge of the council, not the council that makes the decisions and puts the top line on it. Government. I want to go back to the letter at the highest. Ministers of foreign affairs and the purpose of serving. It may seem to everyone that each person they read seems to interpret it in his own way. In the morning newspaper it was easy to read that Edgar Rinkevics, secretary of the Latvian State, has said at a press conference that he believes this is a matter for Iceland to decide within the country and that it is not the European Union to decide how the country will handle the situation, i.e. Iceland must decide how to handle the situation according to our administration. Then I'd like to put on the theory you've heard that it was actually meant to get the European Union to cut the top. A government from the noose by breaking up with Iceland to the highest level. A government wouldn't have to do that. [[The president calls.]] How does that measure? A senator? Does he think there's anything to it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u42	V.E.G. President. In itself, it is a bit fun but sad that we will stand here in the chair one by one, trying to interpret a letter that is written or delivered by the highest power. Minister of state here in the hall, listening to us. He has failed to explain the purpose of his letter, pointing only to Morning Magazines. I don't trust myself at this point to tell me what the point was, I can't figure it out. I think it's this: Here's a good way to shun the Generals, we're not going to get into trouble with this, we're going to have to put the senators in front of something. Of course, it is also tempting to think that the reason was that by expressing its opinion in this letter, the European Union would view it as having received and received the message and that it would be finished. This evil, bad EU, such as governments often see, appreciates democracy saying at the highest level. Iceland's government, find out for yourself. It's up to you to decide. By your democratic means, you decide what your position is. And by not taking sides, they say frankly: We have not realized what this letter means. We have no idea what you were trying to say. I want you to give me a clear message from the Council that's behind. Then we can start discussing what is meant. But what's wrong. A senator mentioned in the beginning the position of the government and we have a government that says, "I have, I may, and that's what's unpleasant. With such an elegance of stakes behind them, interest groups they draw out and push aside the public in the country to make a living in the company of their friends. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u43	A respectable president. First, I'd like to apologize for having used a word earlier that may not be appropriate in the matter of Congress, but saying that I have to say that I sometimes get a little confused about exactly what we mean by the term "appreciativeness " to the Alduke. Now I do not care much about exactly what words are used but the way people treat and establish themselves toward institutions such as the World Council and, of course, the people themselves. When it comes to the specific issues we discuss here, which are European languages, we cannot discuss them materially or physically, but there is no point in discussing them materially without discussing the highest purpose. Ministers of foreign affairs are even more successful and are even more concerned with how the matter is involved. Despite the joy of being the greatest. The secretary of state seems to have completely screwed up his relationship with the European Union when he tried to break up the conversation without the presence of the Generalist is the point of the letter, which was to end the discussion. In fact, even those in charge have taken this step and have rejoiced that this operation was carried out. Talk about the fact that this was merely a political stand, at any rate, that the talk would not be a success. Councilmen like what? 2.m. Reykv.. n. as an example, but there are, of course, more. For the European Union itself, I sometimes wondered where the discussion is in the community. In the beginning, when discussing the idea of applying, people began discussing it with one another, etc., but this discussion is fixed on the question of whether or not to continue discussion. And what I've always said about national pay or as long as I remember is that when people gain power over their own decision, over their fate, they first gain the responsibility they need to be responsible for that decision. While it is only the High Council to wrangle on this matter, the ordinary voter in himself does not have much reason to get involved in the matter or to discuss it with each occasion, what if the decision is made by an outstanding Supreme Court? Minister. When the General fails, the answer is not less democracy than democracy. If the Council as an institution is not fit to make that decision, we should refer it to the nation, not to the highest degree. Minister. It is the nation that builds that land. It's simple, it should be obvious. That is the purpose of the letter that hurts, not necessarily the contents, depends on the opinions of each member, and even if a person rejoices over the content, even if he or she rejoices over the purpose, they should not accept this particular practice. In my opinion, it makes no sense to stand here and discuss the European Union materially if the process is to be such, during the highest. This is how a government treats the Council. That's basic. Before discussing this material, we need to ask ourselves, " How will I discuss it? ' And speaking of the respect of the Generals, if we're not going to discuss it at all, what are we doing here? As I mentioned earlier in my speech today, it is not good to know if a person is going to limit his power completely to what they may do technically because of the fact that a common member of the council may adopt all sorts of wishes for which a council would be a disgrace. Similarly, the government can embarrass itself, but that does not mean that it is okay and that it is not okay. And when it does, we are to find out first, not as government and government, but as the General. I suggest it's the first and the only thing we're supposed to talk about until it's clear. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u44	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for an interesting speech, and I share his interest in methodology and democratic factors. I know we're both amateurs about it. But what I've been wondering is why. A candidate in the process used in negotiations, negotiations, adaptation negotiations, or what men should call it. When Norway was applying for involvement in the European Union, a contract was first made, and some agreement committee was put in it. Then he was placed before the nation, and if people had liked the outcome of the deal, they would have applied. However, this led to two vertebral breaks in the European Union. The Norwegians said no in the National Code, and since then no one in Norway has thought of going that way again. The European Union has changed the process later, so instead of first checking what is available, checking the package, and then asking permission, it's just applied. It's not even asking permission, it's just applying. Any government that is interested in entering the European Union will only be able to apply for participation in the European Union. The European Union, with all the costs and travel involved, has started its adjustment to the European Union's regular work, showing adjustments in the order of the EU without asking its people. Also set the opening and closing conditions for the sections that need to be carried out and the most difficult to store until last to achieve the most compromise. So, during all of this, propaganda is introduced, which may be a violation of the Vienna Treaty when the EU enters the states applying for membership and advertisements and advertises the cause for which the government is fighting, which is said to be in attendance. This is not democratic to me, especially when the people come to the word when they are allowed to express their opinion of the case, when the sovereignty has come to Brussels, and no has to be said in a national law to bring them back home.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u45	A respectable president. I appreciate your interest in democracy at the time. 2.m. Smoke. n. But first of all, I believe that the most successful case was to administer the matter in a national law, not because of anxiety or anxiety. Rather, a senator brings up the matter to ensure legality, in order to be clear in advance what the nation wanted to do in these matters. That is why I suggest that this decision belongs to the people today. If the highest. The government wants to break this project for another two years until the next election and to deal with it again when the people have done their part, rather than working on it and deliberately fuck it up in one way or another. However, when it comes to the question of the adjustment process. There are two things that a senator mentions me in all that speech. First of all: What legislation is what we should have adopted because of our EU application and of the Member State's discussions that we would not have adopted on the basis of the EEA? And second, where, then, is the entire government's work in presenting new bills to restore the independence that we must have lost in this four year's application? I'd love to, if you know what I mean. A senator could answer that question.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u46	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question, but it's kind of so I'm asking him in his speech. I can still answer that question. However, I would like to ask him something else. I know that he is a great amateur for direct democracy like myself, and the model that I like to follow is the Swiss version of direct democracy, not the direct version of democracy practiced in the European Union in particular, which I have not been aware of as the practice of direct democracy. I'm next to think, and maybe I have what. A senator's other opinion is that when the nation says yes, it will be the last national agreement that the nation will ever participate in.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u47	A respectable president. The first national hearing in the history of the Republic of Iceland was after the 2008 economic collapse. Five that I know of have been held before, all for the Republic's establishment. We are not exemplary when it comes to national pay and the few times that they have been held, it has been that the initiative of one particular person who, while I remember, never seems to be able to tell us in advance how he makes exactly such decisions. There are always different reasons why they refer to the nation. In itself, I do not have much concern that we lose some language rights in the European Union that we hardly already have. That's why I always reiterate that we need two kinds of lawsuits, on the one hand, the legal right of the memory of the council, which is actually not about democracy, but about improving our work here in town. However, it is the nation's legal right to believe that, according to 10 percent of the people, they can provide binding national law on the decisions taken here. About a year ago, 22% of the voters appeared and demanded a national fee for the EU case, which was then being discussed. 53,555 signatures, 22%. What we need to ask here is: If we are not going to leave that question in the hands of the people, when? Do 51% of the people have to demand a national fee to keep a national bill? And then there's the other, if the deal is so full of shit... and the package is so scary... and we lose our way of life... and the agriculture, no sane man in Iceland votes with it. The majority of the people are in opposition to this stage and have been very long, but they are with us that we continue negotiations and, yes, look into this blessed package, which I have not yet received answers as to why it should be so difficult. I think it's democratic to vote at this point, and I hope it answers a question. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u48	Mr. President. It was interesting to listen to the exchange of these two words. Parliamentaries, including to see if the negotiations had been adaptable. Then it is worth reviewing before Congress that one of Iceland's relatively early successes to propose and insist. The Foreign Affairs Commission was just that there would be no adjustment until by national regulations and, of course, just provided that the National Code presented a yes to the rest of the contract, so there are absolutely no facts. On the other hand, if the people said yes, they were bound to do a plan to conform a rule, of course, they would be subject to their consent. Perhaps there is evidence of what the Icelanders were capable of because we were the first people to achieve this, just so they are completely in existence. Because people are predicting the end of the world for democracy and direct democracy, especially if Iceland went into the European Union, then there is now in the news that a nation that has been in the European Union for a long time is just taking a national vote these days. Mr. President. I agree with my stand. A senator on behalf of his great political movement has a direct democracy. I think today's demand is bigger than it was a decade ago. I speak here as a senator who first proposed a direct democracy, has done so regularly since then, so I am completely in agreement, but I think that after a collapse this demand has grown. In 2008, a chapter became understood. I believe the Icelandic people want democracy directly, and they want to express their opinion on this matter and agree with it as a matter of course. A senator said.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u49	A respectable president. There's nothing to do but celebrate and hope to the highest. The government's members agree with that and their own words during the last term, so to speak. But, hey. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson points out exactly what has left me confused in all this discussion from the beginning. I have recently dared to ask, like this without feeling like a fool: what adjustment? What adjustments are we talking about? Where is this legislation we've had to record because of the EU application? I know a lot of stuff we have to record about the EEA, we'll take care of them, it wouldn't surprise me, tons. We need to record such amounts of EEA regulations and have extremely little to say at a very limited time. Hv. A senator mentions an IPA scholarship that people actually cried out about losing rather than the other. But if that's a adjustment, good and good, then it can be taken back. But I have not seen any prime signals here to undo any independence we should have lost because of the European Union following an application. I still don't understand what people are talking about. Yes, with the IPA, we lost them. [[Up front.]] Hv. A senator asks what they were for. It sounds like a reason. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aphrodinson has answered that in his own reply, but I'm just offering a conversation after this meeting if they want to talk about it. I still see no problem here at a council where we take back our lost independence. [[Up front.]] I don't understand what men are talking about. No longer will we get money to gulp some paperwork, or no, is it the horror we need to get rid of? The IPA? [[The point is, they weren't...]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u50	There's been talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u51	Mr. President. Hv. A senator can always come to me if he needs any information about the European Union. In view of the fact that the Pirantics have become, I may not say world movement, but I am well on my way to becoming the largest political party in Iceland, so to speak. A senator would be the minister of foreign affairs after the next election. In view of the situation I offer my powers pro bono if any. A senator needs them. To discuss the adjustment. I have understood exactly how this was not a adaptable conversation, and there we reached a milestone that no one ever reached before. But the other thing is we're here every day to adapt Iceland to the European Union's regulations. We do this through our involvement in the European Economic Area, which at times makes me feel that it is a disgrace to the council. We take each day, week after week, month after month, year after taking the instructions from Brussels through that contract without having anything to do with the agreement. Isn't that a loss of sovereignty? Yes, it has increased over the years as the limit of the contract has increased. This means that since 1994 we have lost more sovereignty than we would have by joining the European Union today. Why? This is because we were going to recycle a sovereign state by walking in the European Union, we would have the right not only to have an formative effect but a major influence on what legislation would look like. Today, the General Assembly is on the verge of being decommissioned because that is a percentage of the legislation that we've taken from here almost by email from Brussels. It is a sovereignty that some of some strange misunderstandings, though full of sovereignty, seem unaware.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u52	A respectable president. I can say anything. A senator who accepts all his guidance, regardless of his position or employment. [[For example: Don't be modest.]] Pride is next, as they say. There are so many things in this lawsuit that I still don't understand, despite having sat here last year, when we studied this report and reiterate what I've said in my previous talks under this program. Last year, when we discussed this matter, it was that when it came to the two biggest lawsuits, fishing roads, and agriculture, the report left me with such a feeling of clifting, I don't know the English word, the respectable President. And then I had a word for it. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, who read the report, came back to me the same feeling. We need to find out more, we need to consider the matter even more. That feeling goes nowhere, because I have not taken sides in whether or not I want to walk in the European Union. First of all, I don't think it's time to make that decision, and I won't feel that it's time for me to make that decision until the negotiations are concluded. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson explained so well. What's more important is that I don't think it's just our decision, I think it's the country's decision. That's what I think is fundamental. I don't feel that we have any right or reason to speak against the democratic system in the European Union when we don't even have it right here, regardless of national law, as proved by recent examples.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u53	Mr. President. I think this discussion was beneficial in its own way and explained the situation somewhat in connection with events that have occurred in the last few days. As I appreciate its status now, she's at the highest level. The minister of foreign affairs sent this letter, stating that the discussion is not to be terminated or that the procedure will be disabled, but the letter is not so said. That's the next stop, you might say, topmost. Minister and author of the case, executives who have become a great history of their interpretation, not turning their eyes to heaven, but to the European Union, putting full confidence that the European Union will read it out of this incomprehensible letter that they would like to hear from there, that the European Union will begin to do what the government for some reason does not do. If she is consistent and wants to cancel the interview, she wants to cancel her application, but she still chooses not to, her letter does not speak that way. Let's be as much as she would have walked by the General then. Rather, she puts it in a strange way that the government has no intention of re-starting member talks and the government in itself feels that Iceland is not to be viewed as an application state. How, then, will the European Union respond to the extent to which there is still a response? Yes, it will send the cup back. He was sent home yesterday. Latvia's foreign minister, Edgars Rinkevics, simply said: "Do not ask us to read what you want with this vague expression. To quote directly from Latvia's foreign minister at a press conference on the outside yesterday in Brussels, by permission of the president: I believe this is something Iceland has to decide within the country. - Don't ask us to. The European Union cannot interfere with the political debate in the country. Then there is an interesting sentence when the minister has been asked better about this for a journalist, which is basically the position in the light of a letter writing from Iceland, both government and government. Then the minister informs us that he has presented this letter, but there is no basis for any special discussion within the Minister's Council of Ministers, and he insists that it is Iceland's decision to handle the matter in accordance with its administration, i.e. Iceland. They send the ball home. This has failed at the highest level. Secretary of state. He and the government continue to sit with the cup in their hands. And all of this has become most embarrassing and, in my opinion, brought reproach on Iceland's foreign affairs. Of course, it's what's been amiss in this discussion but it's serious in itself that ministers in Iceland's government, and individual councilmen too, have also made themselves an arduous misunderstanding or a lack of knowledge of the national administrations, administration warrants and rules of government. Of course, a man who has not yet had time to do well in the way of custom and right in these matters, but, of course, it's not good that we live for ministers for a long time, and even for an entire government, which is certainly a very inexperienced one, is not well aware of how the basic rule of the country is and goes out in impossibility to interpret and justify its actions that do not work. Obviously, I'd have to send the Ministers to a course, if not just the entire administration team, but individually, I'd feel like I'd better be out of it by now. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson of a year, he is experienced, but some ministers each have quite a long course of training. Mr. President. How is this, in effect, in a country where there is a government? What does this involve, and who is the synod, and what does it refer to in the democratic sense? It points to the simple fact that although it does not exist in our constitution, unfortunately, because we have not been able to revise it, all authority in the land comes from the nation, and so it should be in parity. Constitutions. [[The president calls.]] All power springs from the nation. The nation chooses to represent itself every four years, and to its representatives, but it does not come from the other direction. [[The president calls.]] The powers do not come from within the measures of the Ministers, from the council's office, from here on out, from the nation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u54	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon makes the subject of the most remarkable information that appeared yesterday on the morning Web site. It tells the chairman of the European Council of Ministers that this is not a matter that is in effect relevant to the European Union. This is what the Icelanders will be with the controlled devices and tools they have to decide for themselves. This is very interesting, especially in the light of a statement at the highest level. The other day, the prime minister gave up. Then I'd like, with permission of the highest power. President, testifying to the highest order. Prime Minister who are so silent: ◯ When preparing for it, you will be able to say, "I'm sorry, I'm sorry. " - i.e. The letter was addressed to the European Union. This town agreed on the best way to work, according to Iceland's position, and ready to work with us. We pulled, and they pushed, and the ship got loose, but we sank on the same thing. That's what I'm saying. Prime Minister. In view of this, he has been misinformed by the highest level. Secretary of State, however, I don't think so because I was at a meeting of the State Department at the highest level. In another way, the minister of foreign affairs reported the matter. He said, as shown by another senator last night, that the EU did not make any commitment but the highest commitment. However, the prime minister argues that it was agreed, that the European Union was at peace with it, and it pushed the ship along to free it from the harvest and to sink it. Isn't this all by then in this matter and in all its involvement, at least No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Prime Minister? In view of the information as of today, I believe. A senator is here to bring, and we are to compare with the word of the highest. Prime Minister that he was deliberately bluffing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u55	Mr. President. I noticed those comments at the highest level. In fact, the prime minister and I stopped particularly with the graphic illustration of the ship on the reef and pictured the European Union pushing and the Russian government to pull, and then the ship got off its head and sank. V.E.G. The prime minister put it this way, not to withdraw the application, but to sink. There was another flower of metal in the drama. It has been said that zeros and zeros are going to zero, and it was said that something had sunk into the sea. Now it's so great. The minister of state is an interview in the Morning Press today, where he reviews the situation. I read it from the exact moment that I saw it. A senator asks about. I thought it said that there were all that communication was talk. Foreign Minister to his colleagues, the Latvian minister of foreign affairs, and then the Icelandic officials would have located somewhere lower in the ◯hierkiin to be spoken to men in a comparable plan of the European Union. The European Union should naturally agree that it has any part in this, has not promised anything or had any effect on the nature of the information received from Iceland and the responses of the European Union confirm it. They'll send the ball straight back home and say, "Come, you Icelanders, get on down to how you want it to be. So, at the highest. The prime minister is clearly mistaken in his statements. He often interprets some information he has received and/or has been treated as a fool, has been implied more than was the source, and then who has? Is it not likely that it was his party brother, chief? Secretary of state? So here, there are all sorts of subjects mixed up, as in so many other areas in this regard, and of course, this is not acceptable. Of course, such information would need to be available. Of course, communication on such large matters is meant to be formal, booked. If they are anything, they should ask for meetings that are presented in a book, communication on such matters should be formal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u56	Mr. President. I don't think it's the highest. Foreign Minister has misinformed the leader of the government. Last night at a meeting of the State Department, which other men reported, was made clear by the highest power. Minister to the European Union, no commitment would have made on how to handle the situation. That's what's at the top. The prime minister says that an interview with the island is not based on information from the highest level. Secretary of state. It's either based on his own extreme then. The prime minister has made it up to strengthen his position when he claimed that the members' application had been formally prepared. What really matters in this situation is that we will resolve this matter in a way that will not be taken lightly. A senator always agreed on and repeatedly in this discussion by acting nationally. Then I'll quote the incident on one side of the line, but possibly just the other. No matter what the decision may be, a senator will take it. If she turns out to be different from the person I look forward to, then I take it as I do every other dog, and I'm used to it. If you don't, you're going to take it back. I believe that the requirement for the government to unite in this situation is here on the agenda for the first joint Congress resolution of all of the government's groups to be made according to national regulations. That's what matters. Let's resolve this matter once and for all through a direct democracy.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u57	Mr. President. Of course, events in the past have taken place between Thursday and Thursday, indicating the general nature of these issues. If so, we are not simply talking about the governmental parties in a narrow sense, although the mess is certainly in their hands and their ways and responsibility in this blessed letter. It seems to me that we're all members of the Icelanders in considerable trouble with how to handle this matter. It must eventually lead to this sort of thing and/or clear lines. This is an important factor in Iceland's foreign political connection that it cannot be offered in this way as if it were all the charismatic, I just have to say it, a respectable president, around this letter has been drawn up. It's incredibly sad to watch. I think that's part of it because people are in political trouble and I'm not gonna say that this case is anything simple for anyone or anybody. The company may try to speak that way on a good day with them and in the heat of their entering a national meeting that this is extremely simple and damp, but I'm not sure that it will be that way in the United States if it does. And this, according to the nature of the case, does not fully bond with each other. This may be a country's viewpoint that differs from that of generations, and many other factors. But in these difficult situations, the temptation is to start making stupid things for a homemate. That's what I think is the key to understanding how brutal the government under the highest order. Secretary of state has taken over the treatment of the matter. To understand this, you must realize that people are in trouble and are looking for something for a home bridge. Of course, the most costly is the highest. Secretary of State, as he has at times spoken about the European Union, was driven by his defense, and he began to place his full confidence that the European Union would remove him from the snare, which has now been refused to do. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u58	V.E.G. President. I gave a speech yesterday to the secretary of state on this unprecedented letter, which is now being interpreted in every way. It has been observed before to the highest level. A minister has had three or four opinions on what the letter says, and many other senators too, heavy -weight senators, such as the chairman of a foreign business committee. paritaprevir He's a Birgir's Ármannsson's farm. V.E.G. The General's president has made it clear that the discussion was not terminated, that will be done only through the General Assembly. That's why I agree, so I repeat it. I have now five minutes to discuss this matter, and I want to begin as I concluded my speech yesterday, talking about news from Denmark that the two federal groups have agreed after negotiations with the administrations of anti-regionals to provide a national payment on the EU leviation of the Member States on legal and internal matters. It says that with the accordion on national pay, there is hope that changes could be made in the terms of the EU Member States, which became valid after Danir rejected the Association's Maastric Convention in 1992. Denmark currently does not acknowledge the national rights of the EU on the state and judicial matters as well as the Danes are the exception of EU defence policies. Let's move out there and think about a government in Denmark that's come to an agreement with the government, as we'll see here. That's what I want to do about it here. I'm gonna try not to scold the highest. Minister of State more for this mess, I did it yesterday, but I would like to turn this case to why, in all the government leaders, the highest. The Ministers of Bjarni Benediktsson and Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson would not be willing to go as well as the Danir have gone, as Prime Minister Danmerk has agreed. Why do people not try to settle this huge issue, which is just right to be divided into all categories, such as the one sitting in the Presidency now called just now, differences of opinion between peers and families? Why do we not sit down and try to be content to go that way? Today's management post, part of it was in the greater part of the last term, and it was adopted by the General Assembly with support from all groups, in effect offering a proposal for reconciliation with the synonym that has been distributed here today in which national regulations are proposed for the 26th of Septemberk. Whether to continue the Member States' activities of Iceland and the European Union. There's a question asked, by permission of the President: ▪ Do you know that Iceland will take up a short talk with the European Union, with the aim of making a contract under which the nation would be signed for approval or innuendo? Yes or no. Democracy to the people. V.E.G. Secretary of State has been here for all this discussion, natural, but other ministers are not, and I especially want to direct my question to the question. A senator because I often thought that he spoke in that way during his last term when he was a government opponent and went to great lengths: Why on earth are you not prepared, present - day governments, to sit down with other political leaders, and to try to negotiate this way? For one thing, it's because of the highest. During the last election, Prime Minister promised whether to continue or not in the Harpa. May I remind you again that the angles of the Independence Party in all election terms actually read the same style, a promise that this case would be settled in national pay, even called the district election election elections of the first part of the terms, etc. That's why I'm allowed to ask the highest. Secretary of State and all I believe is the highest. A minister of state may come back and discuss this possibility that could then result in the unity of the nation. Remember, many of the most fierce opposers in the EU want national regulations about such a question. Ladies and gentlemen, me and the Icelanders must try to get out of these pits, and the General would raise their high regard by settling down and trying to agree with the proposal presented here. [[The president calls.]] I reiterate my question to the highest. Foreign Minister: Is it absolutely impossible that the forwarding party and the Independence Party can go this way in view of the praise of the officers?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u59	A respectable president. I come here for my second speech because I could not review everything I would have said in the first. As I concluded my case, I wondered why, in many cases, people did not trust to live up to the promises made by both sides of the board as regards allowing the nation to vote for whether to continue or to cancel the talks. The reason why I ask this is because I'm the kind of person who makes it seem normal to deal with it when you're over 55. a person has made the effort to sign a request to make such a decision, especially since the same political parties directly praised it in the leading of an election. It is simply a matter of waiting and listening. This government has spoken out into the corner of this case, has hardened its position in some solution to an advanced government and has completely forgotten its role in trying to look ahead and take something with us, this nation. The rage is so intense, the hostility against the former government is so great that people don't get out of their way, they don't even get to the point of being able to keep their own promises. That's the problem. That's why, like a whale. paritaprevir Kristján Möller Muller mentioned earlier, suggested an attempt to get men to discuss this option and to get out of the corner where men have painted in and discuss with us other options to get out of it and to get the people's will to do it. I also feel uncomfortable and awkward, because you can sometimes be a little cohesive, watching how you also defend yourself, being in some field, not knowing where they turn, and which direction they're going to get to. It is with the way people have claimed that something has not been said in the process, that there has never been a promise, or that the facts are faced during each interview, the recording, and the transcription of other items that have been drawn here. Both the head of the Independence Party and the head of the Frustration Party promised it truly in the leading of an election. That matter is totally settled, so they both did it, so it's a real betrayal of promises. Second, I have to recall because men have taken an adventureful lead in trying to claim that the Council does not have to come into this matter, and I have never seen anyone like such a reversal of their views as in this government, in a fundamental stand for big business, that it specifically says that it is a paper with a body of Congress on a national pay for the adaptation and communication process of Iceland and the European Union that was delivered by the river. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir and what. paritaprevir Ásmundur The Einar son of Daðason who is also an active assistant to the Prime Minister, by permission of the President: It has been proposed by the Council to withdraw the application for involvement in the European Union. Alleger One has the power to retract the application... The minister of the prime minister says this in a paper with a suggestion that he made during his last term of conversation so that the government's reasoning on this side of the case was still hanging around. She does not even agree with herself in what to do in this matter because people have painted themselves in the corner, are in trouble and catch everything, no matter what it is and no matter what it is they contradict themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u60	Mr. President. Then the discussion is about to end, and as soon as the peculiar expedition began on Wednesday with the top secret mission. Secretary of state to the foreign lands to give you the highest decision. The government had taken over, but it was careful not to inform the people or the media about it. It was part of a certain strategia that had been laid. It was to separate the nation and make a firm point against the foreign media that the government had made a decision that led to the final termination of the process that began with the Council's 2009 decision. Even though it's the highest. Ministers can rush out of their councils to talk to the media and to find refuge in the plot again when they are finished, so that there is no refuge in the Generals' symposium. It's going to be the highest. Ministers to answer what they are asked about. I asked the highest. The minister of the state of my first objection to his speech, on the move yesterday, on whether he thought and could argue that in the letter to the government's decision, there was some objective or administrative argument that would prevent a new government from remembering, if she wanted to, adopt a thread in which the present government broke him. V.E.G. The minister answered very clearly. He said there was nothing in finding that could bind the hands of the next government. That is the very essence of this matter. Then it is clear that in spite of the efforts of three ministers to promote another aspect of this less than a week's expedition, a new government, if it chooses, can return to its uncontaminated affairs. It means, in effect, that it will not, as one would say at the very latest. Minister yesterday, be sure to make sure that the application procedure cannot be resumed without applying again. It has been reported that it could have seriously damaged Iceland's position. Of course, many people, of course, do not believe that it is an attractive and challenging opportunity for Iceland to be in a position to walk in the European Union and record the euro. I've seen it as a device myself, but only a device to get Iceland into an environment where stability exists, where both companies and individuals can plan ahead. In any case, I feel that as a supportive member of the European Union, I do not demand that those who are my opponents in this matter put their own plan ahead of them. How do you expect to stay out of a cent if the government's budget is being suspended? How will humans do so? This has never been clearly demonstrated, so many have the best interests of currency. But in any case, this is a conclusion at the end of this journey. At the end of our discussion, I feel that we owe it to the very best. The chairman of the council, as well as after the experiences of other members of the administration team, such as the driving force. paritaprevir The queen of the Ármannsson, president of the Foreign Affairs Committee, for protecting the sovereignty of the General. That is quite true in our government, or government, called the Generals. This means that the General is the highest authority in decision making, and we know that it is primarily two things that create an allegorical monarchy; that is, of course, the Constitution, but it is also a standard rule code. I must say at the end of the discussion that I feel that the General has managed to secure it. The interpretation of the Council of Congress, which is the basis for all our work, was found at least in two of the highest levels. Councillers, which simply means that if they believe that there is more to their will at the Council, they can issue an order on it, called Ministerdom, even without exorbating the more part of a vote at a council, which has been firmly contradicted. That period ruled for a few years, we believed it had passed away. They knocked on the door now, but now it's come back. Then I feel that the next issue on the program is to look for an extensive solidarity that will be provided as a national law on whether we continue our discussion or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u61	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for the discussion that has been in familiar places. There have been, in fact, not a lot of questions, but some. Men have pondered the Order of Congress, and it's fine if we go over it only after people have made some interpretations of it to me. But I want to thank you for the discussion. The key point is that the government has by means of a letter delivered to the end of the member process in strict terms according to government policy. It is now, so it must be important to promote it because of the misunderstanding that the government does not have the authority to do so, including. I read it yesterday and I'll come to that later. Nevertheless, I would like to promote that I, of course, insist that the European Union respects democratically elected government in Iceland. It would be a disgrace for the relationship. The Federal Committee of Parliaments has been in charge of all this terms for this policy, so it is not possible to argue that it has not been consulted. There is no doubt that the government has the authority to ask for it in this way. It is only necessary to refer to the opinions of experts in the administrative rights that have occurred during the past few days and in the words of the president yesterday. I reiterate what has previously been said that Iceland, as in most countries, is a administrative directive so that the shape of foreign policy and the treatment of foreign policy is in the hands of the Commission. As a result of the nature of foreign affairs, the government's work cycle in this area is not so shaped by the Lawgiver as much as in most other areas of government. In harmony with this, governments have been considered to have sufficient sources of foreign policy and can make them pay attention to the demands of the situation. It may well be that there is a list of meanings, and it is important to consider that particular discussion and consider whether this needs to be changed or established in some other way. The first government chose to seek the support of the General of its decision - notice, seek the support of the Generals - to seek membership in the European Union by resolution. Experts believe that this is not a prerequisite for starting such discussions. The previous government could simply, as was shown in the letter itself, only the European Union reported that she wanted to make these talks because the letter does not refer to Congress. In this context, it also shows that discussions about the EEA deal were not started on such grounds. It was not based on a resolution from the Council. That was the decision of that government, for it enjoyed a more secure object, including it. in accordance with the rule of Congress that has been discussed here. Similarly, when the government chose to cancel discussions with the European Union and set an end to the process established in the previous government, it was not strictly subject to formal orders or approval by the Council. So it does not bind this government, although the previous government has chosen to seek through the Generals to begin the process. In October 2011, a member of the foreign minister very well explained in discussions about the attack on Libya and enrolled NATO in them why he did not consider the matter to be necessary at the Council and why he did not feel obligated to consult with a foreign committee on the continuation of action. Word for word, by permission of the president: Then you're right about what you're doing. At the time, I used the power I had to arrange that our regular officer at the Atlantic Community would not use the force of denial that he could have used for Iceland. At that time, I had made sure that the rich will was for this conduct to be held within the council. Similarly, at one time the matter was discussed in the foreign - language committee as well. I agreed with that existing minister of foreign affairs in October 2011, and I still agree with the Commission's administrative authority to make decisions like this and his assessment of the need for consultation with a foreign press committee. The increase is clearly seen among known supporters of the Member States of these days who believe that EU conditions are in a better way at least being on the sideline watching how languages develop but on a trip without a promise. I'd like to shoot inside that I was asked by what? paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Accuracy, Whether the letter was passed would have damaged Iceland's post. Also claimed to be. A senator who had never been held so badly in any foreign language. [[Up front.]] It's quite remarkable from a former minister and a man I think did some of the biggest fuck-ups in Iceland's political and foreign history. He did not succeed in completing one major case in his possession and in the government all that ideal period, being a member of the European Union. That's why I messed up. Minister and not only that, he also screwed up that the Council's office would be in Iceland. It was totally fucked up. A senator now seated. We can go on like this and remind you, for example. The senator was unable to complete a free trade deal with China, so the trail after hours. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson is such that not to throw stones out of a glass house, was it not? He gets confused here every once in a while, but I think he's like that. [[Up front.]] In time, the election will be re-elected and those involved in the EU will be able to maintain their policies under the nation and seek to form a new part of Congress behind the renewal of applications and start the game again because of that, of course, democracy works. There's one thing in this, too, that I have to mention. It came to pass at the time when the synopsis was adopted in a vote that reminds me, including. dose should be administered at the highest level. Now a president is sitting, for some people have the right to end the discussion at any time. This was not dependent on any particular condition, according to the minister's words back then, nor was it conditional. You might also wonder, " Was it not the course of wisdom? ' A senator making this statement because a respectable present president has undoubtedly come to realize that they may come up with situations that would be better to break up than to continue with them. And I also remind you that the same dog. The current senator and the respectable president who now said just before election, the night before election, in fact, that his party would never agree to join the European Union, never ever, to rule out participation in such activities. [[Up front.]] But when it comes to making a government like what? At the time, a senator must have arranged for his band to set aside that policy in order to form a government. In fact, most of his group has been a great supporter of this process on the European Union. Only national regulations have been mentioned here. During the last term of one term, 14 suggestions were offered at the General Assembly on national pay; 14 counts were made during the last term to keep national fees. There was one who was the highest. the current government, these ethnic groups, saw fit to act and pass, and it was the case with the Council of Government all that was not binding, of course, like others. One of the fourteen did these fine diplomats arrive at that time. We can keep remembering. It is so impressive that the members of the government stand have come up here and urged that nothing is remembered, that they should not be trapped in the old days, although they often go back to the year 2000 and 2003, or something around them. But because they speak of the honour of the council and of democracy, I will remember it already the highest. At that time, Prime Minister Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir walked in front of this table and stopped a vote at the General Assembly. The prime minister seized a vote at the General Assembly and stopped it because she was not at peace with the finalists. In this way, the then president of Congress overtook the question that the prime minister did it. This was an intermission to try to change the vote, to force more parts. Fortunately, it did not work out. What was it that required the prime minister of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir to use this violence at the time, about what was it? It was about diapers, decrepit tax on diapers. That's what happened when more things were going through. Then the people here, representing these great political parties, the left greens, and the Conspiracies, speak of the respect of the council and of democracy. Hv. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller asked me one question earlier, if we could settle down to the conclusion that has been submitted. I can't argue with his conclusions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u62	A respectable president. It must be understood to the highest degree. A minister of state loses control, choosing to talk about all other things, but himself and his own decisions in such a terrible situation as he has already had this position entrusted to him. [[Up front.]] But he has been asked a simple question, and it is appropriate to reiterate. I know the highest. A minister of foreign affairs from the establishment of the office of foreign ministers in Iceland in 1940 said that the minister of foreign affairs has rebelled against a church resolution approved at the Council, whether it was approved during that elected period or during any previous election period? Where we attend our tradition in Denmark and were once under Dana - if the highest. The minister of state cannot point to one man who has taken action in the office of the minister of foreign affairs in the same way that he has now, can he point us to one example of a dance political narrative in which the minister of foreign affairs has gone against the approved Senate's approved interpretation of the Synod's policy? One example, the highest. Minister of state, about someone who has acted as a minister in office. Don't we also have to ask a secretary of state: If he agrees with the prospective head of the House of Development, the assistant of the Prime Minister and the chairman of the Board of Justice, when they say in the Senate that it has been distributed at the General Assembly of the Icelands, that no one but the General Council can cancel the application, and thus under the Minister's party brothers, with the President of the Council of the Council and with the vice president of State Committee, that what the Minister was trying to do is not possible, because the World Council alone can do so?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u63	A respectable president. Hv. A senator asks if I recall that it was not followed by a church resolution adopted at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u64	Get through.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u65	Get through, yeah. I have to admit to that. A senator as honest as possible, I don't remember that clearly regarding foreign affairs. But that does not change the fact that being first in the world, such as being first, is always good. That, however, is a fact. A senator should know that the masses of council odors approved by the General will never be fulfilled. There's nothing done with them, unfortunately. I mentioned earlier, in fact, not all of them were approved by the Generalis, I take it that 14 Senate hearing proposals during the last term just for national terms failed to be carried out, and I reiterate, not all of them reached through the council using probe. It describes the trouble with Congress that it doesn't smell binding, this general contingency. And what? A senator needs to realize that the interpretation procedures that are not based on, for example, Article 21. the constitution, or you're going to get relief from anything else, it's not binding on any government. That is why and why it is probable that a government that leaves power, such as the last government, which actually lasted for four years, would have accepted all sorts of strange controversies. And would it be expected that the government today would be in line with all the policies of the former government? It doesn't make sense. Of course, unless the more part is committed to applying the conclusions made by another council, it is also totally crazy to think that it is in that way. But I think, even though I don't remember now, it's possible to find conquistadors approved at the General Assembly, even though they're not in foreign affairs, which have not been done very well with at least. But there is absolutely no doubt that the government is not bound by this convincation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u66	A respectable president. V.E.G. A minister has had a whole day and all the human resources of the State Department to find one example for his actions. [[I just forgot.]] He has found no example there. He is without any judgment at all. And for such an act that the Ministers go against the Council of Foreign Affairs, there is no case in Icelandic Congress or dance, since this is absolutely unprecedented nonsense. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u67	Bullshit.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u68	Therefore, a person must ask a foreign minister at this point: Can the European Union another - when leading the State Department and the President of the Generals have insisted that what Ásmundur Daðason Dadson and Hauksdóttir Huksdótir say in their Congress resolution that no one but the Allied can cancel the application - can the European Union reach any conclusions other than the fact that Iceland's application for membership in the European Union is fully valid? The European Union can reach some other conclusion, the highest. Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u69	A respectable president. Of course, the European Union must find out otherwise. Iceland's government, wherever the senator is now, has this authority, absolutely. It is not bound by the interpretation resolution presented here until the last term. It's completely arranged and signed, completely. And that has not only been said by one scholar but also by others. That's exactly the way it is. [[Up front.]] We're not bound by this council act, but everyone will see that it can't be. [[Investigated by scholars, politicians.]] However, if she had been built on some sort of improvement, if, for example, a law had passed through the council that would have ensured that this process should be in that way, and in this way we would be bound to follow it, unless then we were to bring a legal bill to the council and change it. We are not tied in with this, which, of course, means that the European Union must, if there is some slight restoration over the European Union, if there is some democratic will to appreciate and respect the will of others, it must respond in the way desired. Iceland no longer has an application state in the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u70	V.E.G. President. In the short answer to the highest. Minister at last after his speech, we can approach the minister because he was on the platform, I'd like to ask him a little in the process since he entered the government on Tuesday before he had this proposal and perhaps this ill - wordsed letter approved there, and then there will be days when no one would know what was said there. The meeting of the State Department was Thursday morning. There were a lot of agents from the State Department. Because the Secretary of State and the Ministry is obliged to consult with the State Department on Major Foreign Affairs, my question is to the highest. Minister: Why did it not go to the highest level? A minister or his representatives, and did the Foreign Affairs Commission account for this government's approval?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u71	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question. At the outset, I considered why I conducted it so that no further consultation would be necessary than had already been made. I quoted earlier in my final talk as an example of this, including when it occurred. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller and his band supported the invasion and attack of Libya under the mark of NATO. At that time, a nice manager in his job had often spoken about the matter on a foreign matter committee and as a possibility during the council that he did not need to consult with a foreign government committee on that matter. However, there was reason for discussions during the council whether they had to consult or not. My assessment was that this operation would not have to be carried out by a foreign legal committee after all that had been discussed at the council, on the report, on government policy, on hearings to a foreign committee, on the authority of the Minister to solve negotiation groups, on the legal basis of the sources, all that had been discussed since the same policy, the government's course that has always been before. There had been no change in government policy. She's always been in the way. On the other hand, humans may be at odds with whether it is a good rule, whether it is wise, or not. We have heard scholars wonder whether this was necessary or not. They have not agreed on this. We also see that there is some inexplicability in this decision because the decision is based on the minister's assessment. If you want to discuss this in a certain way, you need to, of course. But I think it has to be this way. Decisions need to be made very quickly, but of course they try not to misuse that authority. And I did not like my predecessor.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u72	V.E.G. President. You see, that's the thing. Minister will abuse his authority here against the Council. Last year's proposal as the highest. A minister was called upon to follow a discussion on a prime committee, a legal opinion, and so forth, to confirm that the government, with it at the table, felt that a council proposal would be required to end talks at the General Assembly. They'd have to have a new deal, like what. Well, Ásmundur Daðason Dadadson and what. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir said in a paper with his motion. There is no way to end a discussion without a new proposal and approval of the Generals. There is no need for more witnesses. Last year, the proposal was to confirm that he was wrong in the summer of 2013 when he was going to do this with arbitrarily. I want to ask the highest. Minister if he can't really just get out of the pits, pick up, and give it to his commander who promised a national vote for elections, that men will sit down and try to agree that we're going to the national law to continue the discussion. [[The president calls.]] That's my question to the highest. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u73	A respectable president. I forgot my glasses, I think I can see what. A senator, though. Hv. A senator adjusts the case so that the only scheme available is exactly the suggestion he quotes here, I think. [[Up front.]] That is exactly the wording as the word "pattern. " A senator has used it here. [[Up front.]] This has always been the case when his band and others have offered a meeting dance - I recognize it well since the last term of trying to sit down with such rulers and governments and have a conversation about some sort of understanding. [[The president calls.]] It's always the line: it's all there is to it. Here's what we can talk about. We can agree on this proposal. Now I'd like to ask you what. Senator, I'll do it later because of what. A senator cannot answer. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u74	Not a conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u75	However, it may be wondered whether and why the United States and those in less part now have never wanted and never dared to ask the people if they want to become members of the European Union. It's never been. [[Up front.]] I don't know why that is. [[Up front.]] It has never been asked if the nation wants to become a member of the European Union. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] There's always some school games and deceptions... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u76	Mr. President. Thank you very much for your permission to speak here at this council. I'm sure I'll leave it right after the highest level of action. In recent times, a minister of state officials has found that he might have as his last card to try to cover some mud fight at the council, but the highest. Ministers must always be careful of their respect, and what is most valuable to each individual, of course, is self - respect. [[Up front.]] On the other hand, I feel that the highest. A minister has shown admirable endurance to be the subject of this discussion, but it has been in such a way that I also understand very well that in his last speech, he should think aloud of the goods he mentioned, Taubblei. Mr. President. There's only two things, Mr. President, that I wanted to answer here. V.E.G. So, a minister made the subject of the fact, correctly, that during my Prime Minister's reign, we did not succeed in getting here the Council of North Pole office. At one time, it was quite difficult, but we still went on that journey. We were encouraged by a superpower in the council to do so and to have its support. It is true to tell that story as it was, international events led to the final decision of the superpower to restore its support. However, it was successful to protect itself from any plans to move a possible part of the operation that had been employed here in the country. Could you recall that as a result, Iceland's people received a professorial position that had something to do with this matter in a certain way, as I have previously reported. I'd like to say, then, that it's surprising to me when I'm at the highest level. Secretary of State reports that the last government hasn't completed a free trade deal with China. Now that I am about to fall into age, my memory may be growing old. Could it be that I have been living in China in April 2013 and sign my own contract?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u77	A respectable president. There's one interesting thing in this alleged answer to why. Senator, he chooses not to answer the key question. Why on earth could he not complete the only major case he was assigned as minister to become a member of the European Union?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u78	Mr. President. I don't think all night is out in that case yet. I must say, I am grateful to the highest degree. Minister of foreign affairs to help them. In the last few days, he has not just managed to arrange Iceland's affairs in such a way that he can be said abroad, and I feel that it's the highest. In fact, a minister of Iceland's government has, in fact, made it an unpredictation in foreign lands, he has done everything else, he has managed to raise European languages. He has arranged for them, in effect, 8 of you. A man met at a protest meeting, and he's united the government opposition to a Senate resolution on a national law. It hasn't worked out before. This has the highest. Minister done. So I just want to thank him so much at the end of the trip because I don't think any men have, at least In the last week and even if you think of all his career, put your hand to that work as much as he does. He has, for example. I have achieved what I have failed to do, large numbers of people who want to enter the European Union. [[The president calls.]] So, if I may, Mr. President, without being overcrowded, he appoints this week's employee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-18-81.u79	A respectable president. I'd like to say thank you very much from what you've done. Skarphéðinsson But he forgets one greeting that I think I deserve most, I think I saved the Union meeting.
