ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u1	The President wants to state that the secretary of foreign affairs would participate in an unsubstantiated question period yesterday was a misunderstanding based on which the minister was not to blame.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u2	A respectable president. I'm afraid the government has decided to move here at the council bill to legalize the existing workforce. Interestingly, since the government has decided to make such a dramatic decision, it is not a public meeting today. The prime minister would recommend the matter as if it were natural, with the bill being represented by a number of directors of the government. It is noteworthy that in any past situation, it is not a financial and economic minister who makes the agreements that they recommend for the bill, the European Minister of Health, where the matter is incontrovertible on the grounds that the health - care system calls for legalization, it is the highest. Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, editor of the prosecuting program here at the council. We must begin this meeting by asking the government's explanation of why it is the highest. A professional minister who's supposed to have the case at the council and why the highest. Prime Minister is not in charge of this or at least the chairman of the Governing Body, Bjarni son of Benediktsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u3	Mr. President. Many of the members of the council have wondered, " How is it that a meeting meeting was first announced here? ' 10 but I'm starting now. One-thirty-thirty-thirty. I'm coming up here to explain. It's because it's time. 9 This morning, we were invited to a meeting by the prefects to introduce us to the bill that is presented here. The plans for the Senate administration were that we would then discuss this bill that none of them would. Councilmen, at least the ruling position, had seen at the time. 9 this morning, and they didn't see it until they placed it here at the council just before. 10. Mr. President. I make serious comments to this kind of work when we're discussing a very large case involving the Constitution of people's legal rights to fight for their votes, to the point. The members of the council are for just a few minutes to investigate. But at the same time, I want to thank you for the fact that the meeting was postponed. That would be impossible if we really were to try to be careful here with some of the legal features. Actually, I don't understand how anyone came up with this arrangement. So here is why this meeting has been delayed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u4	President. I agree with requests for an explanation for the highest reason. A professional minister is representing this case. I would also like to highlight my serious comments that this is a meeting for such a serious matter without any consultation with any council members, without any consultation with the council. One might ask, " Who is in charge of the council? ' Is it the President of the Generals, or is it Ministers? I think it's very serious because we had no time to introduce these members of our council, and it was only because we ordered in the President to have time to talk, and it's been revealed by going over this bill quickly that a lot of things are needed in that way apart from the nature of what is completely immoral.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u5	A respectable president. The situation that we have at the council and in our community is a shipwreckal strategist, which means not to talk to one another. So for weeks it was the hearing of my part at the council that, at the fate of the time we were sailing into, putting aside a conflict and focusing on what seemed to be a reality to everyone except the government, the labor market situation. Our community is based on conversation, community contract, constitution, law that is the product of a population with differing views. And absence to the highest. The prime minister from this hall today and usually when it comes to the government's administrative style is a crying testimony to the level of inadequacy. Prime Minister for that conversation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u6	A respectable president. For ten weeks, we've been calling for a conversation here about the labour market for ten weeks. And the answers we've received from this hall are that local council members have been sent to make us shout that there's no work dispute available at the council. What are we invited here for? We are offered with no advance that this government is going to solve these legal issues right at the council halls. I have to say exactly as it is, this government is not in control of its tasks. We've had a conversation about this over and over. And if the government was treated in the same way as the government around here, I understand that things are very upset. It's not just the General Assembly that's upset. It's society's all because of the actions of this government, because of its inability to deal with today's problems.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u7	V.E.G. President. Yeah, it's amazing how this government manages to screw up in here one thing after another. It has been discussed with the government that, of course, should have been at the government's opposition to try to make more peace with the bill that is here, if possible. For example, I say in my own time now that I have finally seen this bill, that, in this discussion, for example, a proposal was made for a future court case, if it had to be taken into account, it would be necessary to take into account the agreements made by the government. Then I'd like to mention medical contracts and teachers' contracts. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] Why aren't they in here? Here is a date inserted into the bill so that these contracts are not considered for a formality. A respectable president. If that conversation had taken place from the highest point of view. Prime Minister or Supreme Minister. Secretary of finance, the government's point of view, I'm sure that would have happened. That's why I immediately state that these contracts should enter in if there's a statement. [[The president calls.]] Why aren't they inside, respectable ministers?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u8	A respectable president. Simply put, I would like to give a talk. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir. She made it very clear that we in the smaller part have complained about it for weeks and at the time when we were discussing a frame plan that this council was not talking about the squeamish arguments and talking about the ways that might be appropriate for such a situation to come up least. It was rejected at every turn, but now that a strike is to be banned, the council can be called in. Then we're supposed to come together and discuss this at the council scene. This is ridiculous. And now I don't have enough time to criticize the whole act and all the shit this has been done, the way the matter is planned, the way the senators have been taught, or rather, not taught what is to come. We've been in the race since we woke up this morning because no one knows anything about how to handle this matter. This is completely absurd, the case is preposterous, the solution itself, or the suggestion is preposterous, the way this council operates at the moment, a respectable president, is absurd and should not be offered in a civilized democratic community. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u9	A respectable president. The situation is very serious, it's clear. We've got Congress very upset, been out of business for a long time, no plans, and nothing's up. As mentioned above, this conversation has been requested for a very long time. The Treaty Committee of the State has not been authorized to do anything. Meanwhile, the highest. Secretary of finance - what? A reduction in taxes, that is what he wants to do instead of making deals with his people as he should and his commission to negotiate. Hospital building could be offered at the time of doctors'contract. It was signed. Now that the women's classes are involved, there is no way to negotiate. [[Up front.]] And that is shown in the state financial program. Secretary of finance. Two percent over. No, thanks. That's all there is to it. I ask him to read his national budget program, which shows that there is no increase in any increase in the quality of the system or to proclaim tax increases. Is he going to do it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u10	Mr. President. Again, this government is putting a first - grade health system at risk. We had three altruistic budgets of 3.4 billion. According to the head of all the medical institutions in the country that I contacted with the proposed changes, I wondered what was needed to provide needed health care. 3 billion were missing. We had a baseless budget of 3.5 billion. Setting the health system first is not the priorities of this government. This is what the Americans want. We did a poll, Capacent Gallup did a poll for Pirata in November. 90% of the people want first - rate health systems when asked how they want their taxes spent. This government can stop this strike without putting a law that puts first - rate health system at risk. It can do so by setting medical standards, exactly as the people of the country would like, regardless of age or economic terms. [[The president calls.]] It's very serious.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u11	V.E.G. President. We members of the minor body can easily relate to the people in the contract committees of trade unions and with the government's representatives on the contract board of the state. We know what it's like to try to approach these people, we know how hopeless they are to catch up with a conversation, and how unlikely it is for anyone to listen. The situation today in the Icelandic labour market, the state of the medical system, is the autonomy of this government, the self - sufficiency that is characterized by presumptuousness and indifference, and the complete lack of respect for the work of people who work in the systems that all of us have together, which contribute to the founding of society. Putting this matter on the program in this way is outrageous.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u12	Mr. President. The government has sent a contract with a non-employed BHM and nurse board. It is absolutely clear that the government did not want to negotiate. She wanted to get the case back to that. Now the government is coming, and it's going to force a law on 17 members. I'm asking the highest. To discuss such a bill without the highest authority. The prime minister is present? It's almost the whole world of Congress - I see it at the height. Prime Minister has arrived. Then he'll probably come here and figure out how he's in the world that he doesn't have the courage to move that bill. I have nothing against the highest. Agricultural minister, but this controversy is according to a report made by the government on health matters. Why, then, is it not the highest? Is this being moved by a health minister? Agriculture Minister, does that mean that you might put chickens above patients in your priorities? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u13	Mr. President. We're in a fight here, and it's a serious matter. It is evident that governments have had no opportunity to handle the task of solving a battle and that they have not given anything to do with it. Perhaps it has been just always the meaning of trying men to negotiate or to take this rotation that is being done with no escape. It is a shame that some committees are not even dead when they announce last night that these conflicts are about to be passed on. No, it was so urgent to have a meeting on a professional committee to discuss the big business matters that it was the only meeting that was not canceled. This shows the priorities of the government and the absence of reality. Are these classes to be lost? What do people think will happen with the decision they're going to make here? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u14	A respectable president. This debate exposes the problem Iceland faces. A number of people here try to talk to the government, and they do what it does with the problem, keep quiet, and watch until everything goes to waste, and they just try to pin the law on those who are in a different way than the government. Many material things have been put out here on the part of members of the council for which there is reason to answer, for example, why the highest question might be answered. The prime minister does not have the courage to measure the bill that his government transports today and to consider the basic human rights of thousands of people. Why would Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson himself not dare bring this case into a conquistador? And why is that not the highest? The minister of finance and the chairman of the Independence Party, which measures it in his earlier years? Then we must think about it, even though it's right to thank the President for not having had a meeting here this morning, that we only wanted to see each other at 12 o'clock. It must be of particular interest that it is the head of the Independence Party that conducts this meeting on the basis of whether he needs to conduct talks on tax reductions in Valhalla, that it is more important to hold a meeting at Valhalla on the down payment than to establish this matter. [[The president calls.]] It has become quite a sheeplike government at the National Assembly of the Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u15	The president wants to state these words. It was requested that a meeting meeting would not be held until at least 12 p.m. In the meantime, a meeting was arranged with the presidents of the classes, and the president realized that the meeting could take a long time. Therefore, the president chose to postpone until 2:30 that a meeting would start so that no complaint could be made that there was no room for the needed meetings, which the president has a complete understanding of the need to take place before this assembly began.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u16	Mr. President. We are now faced with a rather dreary situation to discuss the matter here as it is prepared. This bill sails into the council under a false front. It is high that a strike is being delayed with this bill. But here, a strike is not being delayed, the contract and strike rights are being canceled for an indefinite period and as long as the court decides to allow it to be relevant. These important human rights are actually being cut off without limits, and it is placed in the hands of a so - called formality, which proves to be not a crime, but a three - man committee from the Supreme Court. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] This is not a judicial hearing with representatives of the debaters and neutral nincompooper, this is a biased judgment, for in Article 3. is the basis for all government activities; the demands and interests of the data industry are not entirely understood. It is all listed here that the State has pronounced on this issue, even to the Supreme Court, to be a judge of economic stability. [[Up front.]] So the bill is scandalous, except for the purpose. [[Take it up: Shameful.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u17	V.E.G. President. Yeah, it doesn't get better. ... aftera interestingexplanation of that. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon has it where the Supreme Court is to appoint all three, but the dispute is not to come. This is yet another example of the lack of communication in the present government, which seems unable to break the point of its mania and discuss with the government stand in an effort to create greater peace in this difficult battle. A respectful president, of course, is that the government agreement board is to march to the table and negotiate. It is to come in here and negotiate with those who are in a strike, as it has done with doctors and teachers, for example, taking into account those contracts because they are being corrected for the collapse and collapse of the crown. Can we expect to have nurses working for us in Iceland if the initial pay is 304,000 k, the way it is today? [[The president calls.]] I say no, and that's what it is. The secretary of finance on behalf of the U.S. Commission must understand and therefore have to be offered better in these agreements.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u18	A respectable president. It is good to see how much the government now enjoys the limelight. The present political opposition did not enjoy the limelight when it was here during the last terms of the year. [[Oh, come on!]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u19	What's wrong?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u20	leads to the government of the country. What was it like?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u21	In the last term...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u22	So how was it? [[Up front.]] What was it like when the present government opposition laid laws on an Air Force? [[The president calls.]] How was the discussion here then? Was it haughtiness and hypocrisy then involved? It wasn't. paritaprevir Ingadóttir Ingajörgdóttir here, speaking of presumptuousness and disrespect when she supported it with a yes to put laws on an Air Force. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] It is clearly important who is and who is at the table. It's perfectly obvious. And then they talk about discouragement here. Who is it that dared to stand up to demands? Not what? paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson. [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]] Who's the one who dared take over to Icesave? [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]] Not what? paritaprevir Sigríður Ingibjörg. And who was afraid to reduce homes' loans? Not the union, and not the left. Where's the balls? [[The president calls.]] The hypocrisy of government is what stands out and has always been done. [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u23	Welcome home from Finland...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u24	The president now wants from the heart humility and the peaceful wishes to pray. Councilmen to give them speakers who speak here sound to speak. They're talking here at the General's symposium.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u25	How about putting the speakers in cold baths?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u26	A respectable president. I wasn't in the last government. I wasn't at a council last term. V.E.G. A minister cannot use it as an argument that the government had been like this or queer during the last term. V.E.G. Government and supreme. Ministers need to be able to justify their own actions on their own terms without using such reasoning as that someone else was so wicked in times past. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] It doesn't matter, Mr. Honorable President. This speech is highest. A minister did very little to convince me because, as I know, the highest. Minister knows, I was nothing here during my last term, whether in the government or in the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u27	But you're on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u28	The idea that we have here will not solve the problem. What this will do is that this will cause a wide range of information and will deepen the problem over time. This is a very dangerous step we take here. I strongly object that we put this matter on the program, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u29	Mr. President. Let me start by saying that I am rather sad that we are starting a material discussion on the subject under this program. The discussion suggests that many at the council Hall cannot wait for the discussion itself to begin, so it is time to shorten talks about the chairmanship that have been held here hundreds already this year and that it is time to reduce the extent of the discussion. Let's take it on our own. This issue is not about the failure of the U.S. Convention Committee. This is a matter of whether or not we have a situation where we need to intervene, including to prevent the condition of the health system, such as it is becoming in the clinic, from getting worse. Those who wish to resist this issue should do so on the grounds that they do not believe that the situation is in the medical facility that there is a need for law on the strike. [[The president calls.]] Then, if you want to take the other discussion, some who clearly suggest that they do not agree with all the demands of the agreement table, then let us take it this way, but it is possible to review on a particular committee exactly how the future development has been in individual groups, what demands exist, and so on, individually, to have a political opinion on it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I hear some people are going to suggest that the state should always agree with all its demands.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u30	A respectable president. I think this argument is a little much about management style. V.E.G. For example, a foreign minister did not realize that there was negotiations and conversation that solved the huge task of breaking up. He doesn't seem to know. In fact, he rejects it, or many in the board reject the fact that the conversation took place while it is so obvious that it was part of the successful solution. We're now witnessing that we're in trouble here, just a hook-up, because a decent conversation, well-communicated search has not occurred. And it seems that it is some kind of firm belief in the government to refrain from such politics. During the council, we have found that this conversation does not take place here. So I want to pray to the highest. A chairman of the council is now working with us in order to change the management style and use these examples, the solution to the council, the solution to the labour market, which argues to change this management style and reject it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u31	President. I want to say something. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson's son. I think it's so important that we get out of this style where you can't talk to each other, but you can't talk normally. What I want to point out to the president is that here comes a case that suggests, for example, a sentence and it's shameful how it's set up. You don't get enough time to study this before we start talking about it and whatever it's against, the people who are in a strike. It does not allow time to plan its life according to arbitrary laws at the General Assembly. President. This kind of work doesn't match the frequency people wanted when they were here talking about a new Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u32	Mr. President. It's very normal. Councilmen, no matter where they stand, ask themselves, " What path has come in this country? ' This is the fourth bill proposed by this government, the ideal period not half, of the legislation of strikes. Still, we've come to a place where we're looking good. We are in a period of building, yet it seems to be the first means by the government to use in the event of a fight. It must make each of us think about how we want to see a workforce developing here. Isn't it necessary to change them by means of long - term conversations and mutual respect? Do we think that this process, this operation, will increase labour market stability and create a better long-term situation? [[The president calls.]] I don't think so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u33	V.E.G. President. It is incomprehensible that a case on the schedule in the same year following a agreement with doctors that the health system enjoys a comparable framework for the resources and the number of employees and elsewhere in the North countries taking into account Iceland's uniqueness in population and locality. Was this declaration meaningless? Does this not apply to the women's classes that keep the health system going? They're out there now protesting. I give the highest advice. A president taking a break at a council meeting and giving members of Congress a chance to go and talk to them and hear how they feel about fraud like this. In other words, doctors can be very happy when their wages are increased, and then women's classes are to be made, in which the agreement with doctors is not to be taken into account. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. I suggest that there be a recession at council meetings and members of Congress allow a chance to figure out the real world.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u34	A respectable president. V.E.G. A financial minister came up earlier and wondered why the matter could not be concluded and continued. Then perhaps he should have listened to our speech earlier as we asked and asked why. Ministers of the marine road and agricultural sectors present this case, why the prime minister doesn't. The answer has not been answered. Instead, the Ministers are making a mistake here. And I have to say, the highest. In effect, the minister of the State says everything that needs to be said about the positions, the positions, and the attitudes of these parties to their listeners, to those that do not agree fully with them. This speech also showed how this government draws close to the nation's existence and to the society it is now to take place. [[Up front.]] It draws closer by remaining in a position of government opposition to an advanced government. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This government has to go away. It's no longer working. [[The president calls.]] There are new times.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u35	Mr. President. As we have seen, we can expect that there will be even more nurses and other health care professionals who will move abroad to an even greater extent than they already have. We are faced with the need to educate people in foreign lands. I find this very sad, particularly, in view of the fact that next week, we are going to be here for a 100th anniversary of women's election, June 19, and here we are primarily dealing with women's classes. They are under the legislation to be carried out here. It is a serious matter, and it is expressed in the government's attitude toward doctors, who are mostly men, as well as those of the other health class, who are mostly women. [[Up front.]] This is reflected primarily in the need to be guided by economic stability, as shown in the bill of law, now that an agreement with the women class is already being made, but not necessarily needed when the medical contracts were agreed. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u36	President. Before the bank's swelling farms were offered contracts, they were intercepted for what to walk. When BHM and nurses are offered a silent contract, they don't listen, they just say, "Please, take this, take what you haven't said, BHM for nine weeks, and I don't know how long any nurses are. But I would like to read from a plate called a government agreement. It says: The government will seek to activate the nation's controversies and to counteract the divisive and suspicions that have characterized Icelandic politics and discussions in society for some time. I'd like to ask a respectable president if he thinks he's the greatest. The minister of the foreign lands contributes to this balance, rarely showing himself here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u37	V.E.G. President. Men have claimed, both in this council hall and outside the council hall, that the government commission had no authority, it was not authorized. I think it's a big misunderstanding. The Treaty Committee of the State has been highly authorized by the Supreme Court. The secretary of finance to negotiate only on the lines set in SA and the German European Union of Iceland. I asked them, "Do these people, so - called workers, have moral right to lay down such lines? " No. Simply because there was never an extensive consultation in the labour market for such a policy. Then I ask the government and the highest. The minister of financial rights to take advantage of these lines as a guide in government agencies? [[The president calls.]] I say no. Does he have the support of the Generals in this regard? It will be put to the test in the vote on this unbridled bill now available for the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u38	Mr. President. I think the highest. The government did not realize how serious health problems are. Speak to the highest. The minister of state before us confirms my faith. For a long time, it has been noted that health - care professionals and nurses, among other things, are fleeing from land because of medical facilities and government pay policies. The legalization of strikes now will only increase the issue, increasing the problem, so many departments are not affected because it is a security detail. It is only human that ensures the safety of patients. This is the case today when there is a law against strikes. I talked to a nurse earlier, and she said, "Oh, my God, today is the beginning of some terrible medical system.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u39	Mr. President. Now, we are going to discuss whether to take this matter into consideration. So I refuse. This case is not prepared well. This is an irresponsible bill that the government is going to post here in the council. With the members of my body - I want the people to understand completely - we've been assigned to this matter. We can refuse to take this bill of the government, ill - prepared and irresponsible, into the Council, our council. We can refuse. It takes only one third of the senators, one third of the senators can now refuse. We're supposed to send the bill to the government and tell her to do it better if she's going to make this stressful, so she won't put a complete abuse in the face of the health professionals of the country. It would be best for her to see her this weekend. We're supposed to give the government this weekend.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u40	V.E.G. President. Ironically, this is the meeting of the people at the Norwegian house where people should talk about it. Congressers are to come out among people, be seen, and discuss. After less than half an hour, there is a discussion on the cooperation of the Northern States in health care. Shall I go and report that our contribution is to send workers to a strike there? [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] We are in a sad situation where we are now saying: This strike must be banned. Why? Yes, it is because the government has done nothing about it. We've wanted to discuss these matters. What is the government's view of public employees? What is the view of health care? What do we want in this community? There is no discussion about that. Then they come and say, "We can't go anywhere because people don't want to talk to us. " There's no invitations at the market. [[The president calls.]] Of course, all those in this country's hospitals, and that's under the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u41	A respectable president. They're still hanging themselves in the form. I just think it's more serious than people hanging themselves in the form, who's moving this or who's doing what. There is no mention of patients, no mention of patients'rights. People have admitted that the situation is very serious, people talk about human rights, but I ask: "Where are the patients' rights? [[Make a deal.]] I haven't heard anyone mention patient rights. [[Foreground on: Yes.]] [[Up front.]] Is there someone in this room who doesn't agree that there is a medical emergency? [[Take it up, Mr. President.]] [[The president calls.]] Is it not time for us to put the patients first? [[Foreground on: Yes,...]] Why don't we start this discussion up to a higher level? [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] There's only been a discussion about the bill's issues. Why don't we take the matter on the agenda? If humans have some adjustments to make, should we not try to unite in doing this bill in the most handsome way? [[The president calls.]] It's about time, isn't it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u42	A respectable president. I agree with what you're saying. paritaprevir Páll Pálsson's son Paul's, people act as if something new here is happening that has never occurred in the past. This has been attempted for a long time to make peace with this great issue and to build on the economic stability we are developing. It's interesting to review a case as high as possible. The minister of state came in earlier, and I've been playing with it. Hv. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall has expressed himself extensively in this discussion. A report tells of 2010 when he agreed on a mechanic strike, saying: ▪ Róbert Marshall, member of the United States Congress, says the strike on all classes and that the economy tolerates the multiple effects resulting from such failures. There was nothing wrong with putting a strike on any class. [[Up front.]] It was just fine. Then people here get very sacred over this debate, with great interests at heart, where patients live, where the situation in this country's hospitals has become intolerable, and we can't take any longer to look at it. [[The president calls.]] The same people threaten to make sure that this issue is not on the program today. Enjoying them. It is then their responsibility that the health system remain paralyzed. [[Take it up to you: your responsibility.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u43	V.E.G. President. I think it's wrong what is said here, that there was an attempt to settle the issue on the part of the state. I don't think anything was done to try to settle the matter. The only thing that has been done is to try to convince the pay people, whether they are women or men, I'm pulling no lines between them, in ways too poor - nothing has been done to meet these people beyond those lines that have been set by other sources, e.g. Officers of LAX. This is the reality of it. Has been moved here by the Icelandic Board of Studyers and ideals offered for which BHM has repeatedly said that it could be relevant to the solution to the struggle, at least Was there a part of such a solution? No, nothing like that said. I want to draw attention to one thing. We cannot prevent this matter from coming on. [[The president calls.]] We can put it off, but we cannot prevent it from coming on. Then we'll need - no, it'll be after the weekend, and then we'll have to ask ourselves, " What good will I do with it? ' [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] I'd like to have a discussion about this as soon as possible. I won't vote by it because I'm so opposed to these bills, but I don't think anything's won by waiting with that discussion until Monday. [[The president calls.]] What matters is that this government has a change of heart and attitude in this fight. That's what this is all about. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u44	The President's right at what. Councilmen that they respect the timeliness of the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u45	A respectable president. I've been involved in making laws for strikes, and I'm just right around the corner. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, but what we're looking at here, both in the council and in the labour market, is a defeat of a managerial drive, which involves the inability to communicate. That's what we're criticizing here. It's absurd, and everyone sees, trying to announce a meeting at 9 o'clock in the morning and set the schedule an hour later to put a law on a strike when people have changed for weeks stressing the need to push aside differences and to focus on problems facing the entire population. It's ironic that the man. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, who is responsible for the complete chaos created during the last few weeks, should appear here and speak strongly that others have done so. [[The president calls.]] It's completely absurd, and of course it knows why. That's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u46	Mr. President. The bill presented here is entirely on the grounds of the second debate, i.e. State. Of course, this is highly unnatural, for it is the person who has done nothing to resolve the matter. Here, we speak as if in the government position, the patient's best interests are not at heart. Of course, we have the best interests of the patients. Therefore, we want these caring classes to be valued to the extent possible. The Norwegian labour market model compared to the Icelandic labour market model. But shouldn't we also compare the North American welfare system with the welfare system here in Iceland? Where will we be in that comparison? Is it not time to look to him? This government, especially the highest. Minister of Foreign Affairs, it's always as if she's in a position of government. [[The president calls.]] Isn't it just that this government is supposed to move away and get into a position of government where it belongs best? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] [Cheering on the council.]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u47	You can't run away from the past.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u48	Mr. President. It's very simple to grant the best wishes. Secretary of state to get back to government opposition, it's a breach and an election campaign. [[Up front.]] It is clear, then, that if the minister of foreign affairs is elected, he will be in a position of government. I agree that conditions in the health system are, of course, more serious than the conditions created by General's front desk. Thus this government began its march with regard to the Constitution of the Treaty and the payors'rights to strike. [[Foreground on: Yes.]] A law was set on the Hertlf's overtime complex. The headwork warrant for six Army employees. This is where she proposes for the fourth time that there will be a legal dispute and the Constitution of the Treaty taken from man by man. That's always a serious matter. That's right. It was a great challenge to have to contribute to the 2010 aviation in the wake of a volcanic eruption and in the midst of a black economic crash. True, that case came to a happy end. It was the only case in four and a half years, but this government has just reached a half term in which it proposes for the fourth time to disintegrate citizens of contracts and strike -- inaccessible. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Off-limits. There will be a group of three people from the Supreme Court who decide how long these rights will be held by government officials. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u49	Mr. President. So we haven't begun this vote, and I want to make it clear to the members of Congress that if one third part says, "No, let's turn this case away from the government again to the government so that she can sit with it in her arms for the weekend and think about her walk, we can do it. We have the program now, the smaller part of the council, one-third. I heard that the bags of health care professionals and staff on whom these laws are to be passed were pacified. I really hope we take advantage of this opportunity. Not often. Of course, I will say no to the fact that this matter is being taken on a program with such a tremendous speed, and if it comes back to the council after the weekend, it may be allowed to look at this matter more carefully. [Cheering on the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u50	A respectable president. The situation here is a tragic end to the government's dreary corruptions in the controversies. We've been calling for weeks to get people in here talking to us about a fight. This government has not been prepared to discuss the issues of work with us or their solutions unless it offers us the opportunity to discuss them on the grounds of setting laws on the issue. That's the methodology of this government. We in the United States, we equals, can't support this kind of performance. We're against this law. A respectable president. The government has turned this bill into the council. It is now under the council, and whether it is scheduled now or after a few days, it will not change anything, the government will do nothing. We know that. It's been on public talks so far, and we have at least an opportunity here to discuss the matter and try to make some sense of this government in the conferences. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u51	Mr. President. That is exactly the key. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir mentioned earlier, the feeling that the negotiations have been made, that it is not real to achieve negotiations in this case, that it is not a genuine agreement by the government that it is not a real thing to do, whether it is through the Icelandic loan fund or by an injection into the health system to pay for the contracts. Now the matter has come to pass after we have repeatedly requested discussions about it at the council without having them, and we might as well take them up for a discussion, although we may not be able to support such a matter coming on the program, such a matter is proposed. Sadly, though, as I said earlier, it seems that it has become a tendency to set a problem in general instead of trying to build up some culture around a collective agreement, where mutual respect exists between the people we have.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u52	A respectable president. For weeks, the smaller item here has requested that a quiet discussion be made at the Senate Hall. Congressmen of the smaller parts have proposed all sorts of ideas as to what would be reasonable in their way into a very difficult battle of work on the part of the State. It has been said that disputes will not be resolved in a councilroom and that there will be no interference between the government and the rest of the streets. It is from time to time that the senators of Birt's future will be able to support this matter. So we don't vote, especially in the light of this prehistory. I think, in spite of that, in the treatment of the council, the picture will be drawn up that the government has been pulling its legs in these dress-up structures and the management style is completely in the ditch. This government is now entering a operating ditch with its administrative style. I think we can conclude from this review that it would probably be more wise to put a law on this government. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u53	Mr. President. Of course, I'd like to vote against the fact that this case will come on the agenda, but unfortunately it will only delay it for two or at most five days that it will be done and the damage done by the bill is done because the bill is moved by the government or by its hand. This isn't a third party sharing. The government is the second debate. [[Up front.]] [[Upwards: The damage done]] The damage is done, yes, to the terms of the Convention and the Constitutions of the People in this country, the highest. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u54	What about the patients?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u55	There are also things I thought those in charge should take seriously. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] And you're gonna start trying to tell us that we don't give a shit about patients, right? Secretary of finance? [[Up front.]] Is that the intro? No, let's just talk clearly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u56	...mouth.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u57	If the highest. Secretary of finance would like to include the discussion that if you allow yourself to oppose the government, you don't give a shit about patients, I'd ask him to say it, but don't keep it up here in the middle of nowhere like a little schoolboy. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u58	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u59	The problem is the damage is done. When the government, who is the second issue, puts out a bill to take the rights of men's contracts, it's over. [[Up front.]] If this was a dispute between two parties in the community, it might not be the case. [[The president calls.]] What has happened here is that the government has taken contract and strike rights from public employees and has handed it to the firms of the industry. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That is what has, in fact, happened at a job market and then came to the bottom of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u60	A respectable president. I can't help but say what was just about to end up saying, because we left the green can't support this and the actions here to go on, because as mentioned earlier, the government has had no desire to negotiate. The only hope is that when the matter arises, it may be possible to make some sense of it. The song was given by a talk of the highest order. Secretary of state before. The treaty is clear, as it has been, and it is also important to think about it when it is at the highest level. Secretary of finance up here, talking about conditions on the patients of the country, that we also need to consider the health of the staff who are supposed to care for these sick people. That's what they're about to say. It's understatement in the hospital, we know, and it's been over the length of time, and we're more likely to have to fix it with better terms and with better equipment, which the government shows only to a very small extent that it wants to come to, i.e. by building a hospital that you can't see in the next national budget. Here we need to gather together and prepare well for the people who are to care for the sick in the land, not for the law and shepherds of the land, and then expect them to continue working here under oppressive pressures. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u61	No matter the 4th mg. 10th par. Congress, about the length of a meeting, suggests that a meeting meeting can last longer than the Senate dictates. Do they want a vote on this President's proposal? [[Foreground on: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u62	A respectable president. First of all, this government is not equipped to negotiate like people at work. Rather, it comes here and intends to enforce the legal procedures of people who protest their ideals. Above all, they trust, not to end these matters in daylight, but to drive a meeting into the evening. I have to say exactly as it is, it's all very upset here. This has been the case for weeks, and it is enough. Let's go to some plan for this council, for the summer council that's started here, and let's start it from some image. I object that men will try to discuss laws on these groups into the night, into some night meeting. They have the guts to face these parties in daylight and thus end them properly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u63	A respectable president. Since this matter is on the program for the council, I have no reason to doubt that we will discuss it as long as possible. And it is not true that the damage is actually done because we here at the council can discuss this matter for as long as it is needed. On the other hand, to ensure that the damage had not been done in the medical system, which is, of course, because this government has neglected to start, as was said at the beginning of this election period - the workers were not in the board - it would have required a powerful framework for the northing of the success of agreements. But that has been neglected by the government. If there was that frame, I'm sure we wouldn't be here. This was all anticipated, so nurses and health care professionals cannot be blamed for the status of patients. But okay, it's gonna be the speech, so I'm just gonna put up an idea: I'm asking people in the community to be solution. Let's see if a strike could be passed one day at a time, but the council would always have to come together and accept a new law, so that this practice and the ministers would have to come back and forth and have this conversation. [[The president calls.]] It's just an idea, let's be solutioned. Talk to me. [[The president calls.]] I have put this idea into practice with the director and chairman of the Social Services Agency. [[The president calls.]] Let's find a solution.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u64	V.E.G. President. It is of great concern that it is preferably possible for the government to take decisive and serious action as she treads her bad decisions into the neck of the council. Let's remember, they were beginning at the entire labour market, i.e. which the government groups intend to establish now, not only did the unions and labor movement express distrust of the government but also the union of professional life. We are now in this position because of a complete lack of confidence in the government. It doesn't get any better if we're standing here for the evening. The only thing that will solve today's underlying issue of society, the health system, is an enormous amount of money in it. Night meeting here won't solve the problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u65	A respectable president. Usually, when a matter is taken on a program that makes such an excellent solidarity prevails, a person sees through his fingers to the government, which needs to be brought up on the program fairly quickly. But not in this case. Here, the main part of the government was sitting by the tip of the payment. Neither will we support that this matter is discussed during the evening or night, but neither will we vote against it. But I challenge the government officials and ministers to attend this discussion tonight. I challenge them to participate in it and to be responsible for having the conversation necessary in this room about these matters, and I could have started a long time ago and was offered that way a long time ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u66	V.E.G. President. The reason why you're sitting around to get the subject discussed at the council is because I think the discussion is very important. I think it's very important that this case get to the committee, but then we have to make sure that there will be time there so that all persons can have the opportunity to explain how things have worked out. A health committee is taking the time to review the situation at medical institutions and other such, as is the main reason in the bill. It won't be done with a meeting after a meeting into the night. Hence, a evening meeting is absolutely unnecessary, and we can take the time we need. The reason we wanted this case into the council is because we want the discussion. Then let's go to her and get a careful trial, not too much of a way to end it. This is bad enough, though we try to do it as readily as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u67	Mr. President. I forgot to mention one before, and that's the key. This dispute can be resolved, but it takes money. It may take 4 billion to solve the medical issue for 800 standards. This is a value of 1,600, perhaps 3.6, or somewhere between 3 and 4 billion. It's just a matter of setting priorities for money that the people of the country want to get into this suit. There would be a solution for a first-class health system. Is this money real? In fact, we have a baseless budget of 3.4 billion. We're solving. And following that action there'll be room for less interest on the bill to over 7 billion. We have this room.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u68	Mr. President. Of course, it's always difficult when this is the case, and that's why it would be nice to have a president plan how he intends to arrange this meeting, whether we found them here in the night, and whether an committee meeting will be announced early in the morning, etc. How does the president support the progress of this case? Will the President attempt to complete it here this weekend and then meet both Saturday and Sunday if necessary, and even announce another meeting on Sunday, or how does he picture it? I also think it's important to bear in mind that this is taking the right of an extraordinary number of classes, there are 17 members under there, and this has been the case with health issues. But there are many other classes under which the court is being removed with this almost untimely feature, as this has been traced. A respectable president. It's painless on my part to be here this evening. I agree, however, that I don't find it wise to discuss such important matters when you can't look at people in daylight and negotiate with them. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So I think it's very important to ask a president to see how he sees it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u69	Mr. President. Although many of our minds had been unsatisfactory about the matter, we did, or I, because it had merely delayed it for two or after five days. But that did not mean anything for the government to be rushed through the council. That's another thing. Hence, we do well to ask: What is behind a request for a evening meeting? That's what worries a president about 1st. Do you need more time than until dinner? Or is it possible that you're going through the night to take care of it in one round? Is that on schedule for the highest level? Government? I feel that we deserve an explanation when the proposal is proposed for the reasons why this is so. What's the meaning of that hearing? Is that just getting the case to a committee? All right, then you could've talked to us about it. But if there's something more on the agenda, such as having meetings stand here last night and 2nd and 3rd. I think there's a big misunderstanding with President to imagine it's going to be that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u70	Mr. President. It would have been better for the president to have met with members of the council just to review his plans. I don't think it's my job to be here for an evening meeting to discuss something important, but it's also important for the public in the country to discuss this matter openly. And although it is bright 24 hours a day, we cannot really talk about daylight if it is intended to resolve these matters here when most people are sleeping in their beds, so, of course, we need to review how the matter is going on here. Of course, we can take part in the discussion for a long time, but I restate on the fact that there are some factors to be considered closely in the work of the Committee and that the committee needs to have time to work this case properly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u71	Of course, the president intends to have a meeting with members of the council to review these matters, believing that the matter will soon be slightly clarified.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u72	Why don't we have the vote then?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u73	But when it comes to material discussions about this great and large issue, it is not yet started. Three afternoon it is simply the evaluation of a president that would be advisable but request permission for a evening meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u74	V.E.G. President. Presidential proposal to have a night meeting is surprising, since this has not been discussed with the less part of the council than I say. paritaprevir The Guðbjartur son of Hannesson before, it is very important for us, general members of Congress who are not on the committee to address the issue, that the committee should have a good time to call in the unions, the contract board of the state, the state of statehood, the highest. Secretary of finance and others who need to be called on to get through the matter properly and make it 2nd. If so, it will be. [[Up front.]] That's why it's very important for people to talk only about 1st. The case, and then it goes to a committee as I mentioned earlier. Then I highlight a professional practice in that room by examining what really happens between people. I need to know how much is between you and me. What's the deal with the state? [[The president calls.]] What does the State want? Where's the difference? He must appear at the Committee job.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u75	A respectable president. Would this discussion not reveal anything to you about the administrative problem we face here? I have to express my sadness that this point has not been discussed with members of the council or the presiding committee before this important meeting was announced, how long it should take to complete the discussion, because there are truly many of us who want to pay for the matter to be brought to the committee and to get into a material discussion. The second would be much harder to support that it was here for a quick payment into the night. It seems to me, therefore, that once again the administrative point is to scatter men in a vote and to do entirely unnecessary debates by simply not discussing one's feelings about the problem, the task being carried out, and the best way of dealing with them. I'm calling for the President to explain whether the warrant for a night meeting is tied to the 1st. [[The president calls.]] If so, a certain understanding could be shown. We may also want to go through 2nd and 3rd. At an evening meeting?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u76	Mr. President. I would like to express my surprise and dissatisfaction that the president did not discuss it with the council members how to arrange matters here, including the length of a council meeting. I'm asking a president if he doesn't think there's enough disagreement in a councilroom. Of course. Mr President to discuss this with the chairman of the council before such a suggestion is made. I'm not talking about when things are the way they are. I'm going to see the president that he will withdraw this proposal for a length of conference votes. If progress is not reached during a discussion with the chairman of the council afterwards, he can bring the proposal into the council, but at least he must attempt to settle the progress of this discussion, President, that is a minimum requirement.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u77	A respectable president. Just this last one. When I say I'm not gonna stand in the way of the matter being discussed here at night, of course, I assume 1st. occurs. It is very important that we realize that we are not about to drive this case through in a few hours. It's not like that. However, there must be something we councilmen should review at a meeting with a president and simply do as we did in the discussion of the goats, which was predetermined for how long the discussion should take. That's the result of the conversation. That's what's gotten by talking to each other. It worked very well. It is quite remarkable what the government is going to do over and over to screw things up in this simple way when the minimum price is empty.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u78	Mr. President. It's taking a lot of trouble here, and it's not the first time this spring. It's abshurd to begin with a vote for the duration of a meeting, and then it's the highest. The president and say, "I'm going to talk to the council heads of the government on how long or how long this arrangement should be held. " Of course we must do this the other way. Of course, if some conversation on the other hand is to ask for how long this meeting should continue, we will start talking and then take a vote when there is a conclusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u79	V.E.G. President. When we received the bill this morning at the left movement's team, we set over it and are completely united in our opposition to it. In addition, we examined some of the articles on the bill and feel that we have seen serious offenders in the context. Iceland's constitution. That's why I'd like to agree with what's been happening here, including... When co-administered, the risk was increased. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar earlier, that we need to get from the top. The senator's president sees what he can do here at a night meeting. Do people really think that this matter will be settled at a meeting of evenings, or is it just a matter of getting involved with a committee? It is very important to have this matter discussed at the Senate Committee the first, so that it can be settled there and then placed in the hands of us here at the council for an extended and objective discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u80	This matter had been planned by the president to try to converse with members of the council, and after we realized how it could be handled in a material way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u81	Mr. President. I just want to report that I vote against an open warrant for a night or night meeting in view of the fact that the President has not given any answers. I wouldn't have voted against this evening meeting to make sure 1st is in the world. We're done with the case. We're ready for the hearing. I find it strange that this aspect of the matter could not even be explained, but I would be very opposed to the fact that the committee's work would have to be forced to take it back into 2nd and even 3rd. and make it legal someday late into the night. I think it's weird, at the top of the world. The president should not show the case and position here, at least, the respect of simply giving it up. If the warrant is only to ensure that 1st. It's over, it's a whole different thing. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u82	A respectable president. I don't feel that in general it's important to discuss matters for a long time, but considering that no answers were heard to the questions presented here, I vote against extending a council meeting. I'm sure it's clear in advance when we vote on the length of a meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u83	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to legalize members of a certain college union and the Icelandic nurses' society. The bill is a joint decision made by a government commissioned by me to carry out a fight involving four Department of Professional Affairs, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Employment and Development, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Knowingly, on April 7, BHM's strike operations began and have continued for more than ten weeks. The actions have included temporary and temporary strikes. The comrades'fight was referred to the state of the 26th of March. Since then, there have been disagreements, but little effort has been made in these discussions and has been made so simply today that there is no solution in sight. On May 27, last year, an untimely strike by Icelandic nurses began for two weeks. The club's debate was referred to the state of the 1st April. Since then, there have been disagreements, but little effort has been made in this discussion and is simply to this day's advantage that no solution is in sight. We know all the conversations that have naturally existed in the community over the last few days about the impact these strikes have on countless people in the country. The government has not directly mixed up in the negotiations that have been involved, and she has, by the way, wanted to give the parties, members, the opportunity to complete contracts between the two parties. Sadly, today's situation is that strike action has a significant negative impact on public interest and has upset the number of government and community projects. When it comes to health care care for the public in the country, the work of the Icelandic nurses and the League of college have resulted in a major disturbance. A health, health, or security crisis may soon arise within the medical system. For confirmation and support of this, a surgeon's notes can be quoted to the government and health minister, which says that the strike will have to be completed immediately if it is not wrong to do so. Therefore, there is a high level of public interest in achieving normal work in the national health institutions so that laws involving restrictions on strike operations are definitely entitled to the present situation. Governments of the public interest and/or rights of others are also expected to end the strikes by the head of the county, animal doctors, and staff of the Commission. This strike operation is affecting the rights of others because of their negative impact on the disposition of property, trade, and production, to name just a few. A respectable president. I reiterate my view, expressed repeatedly by the government, that the most successful way in this matter would have been that the disputers had reached contracts. It is not, nor should it ever be a matter that the government intervenes in the present - day struggle. It is truly unacceptable that it is necessary to do so. It is always a difficult step for each minister and every government, and, of course, for the Council as well as for a bill that handles such projects. People's right to take common action to force a pair of compensations is protected, and we want to protect them in the longest of the laws. This right and authority to limit it is discussed in IV. the section of general comment on the bill. However, it is necessary for the legislators to consider and assess the effect as a strike action that these could perform for citizens in Iceland if continued unchanged. There is nothing that we can discuss lightly, and this situation, if it would remain in the same direction, would have a significant, meaningful effect, not just on health care but on society. I'm sorry, the General has to step into this dispute by legalizing it. A respectable president. I am not going to go through the discussions that have taken place or the demands between the parties or to express myself in any other way than the fact that negotiations have failed. It is a real disappointment to have to go to that work in this way. However, it is clear from all of the above that the public interests are at stake, and there are rich reasons to intervene in the proposed strike procedures. Sadly, the intervention of the Parliament is necessary to ensure the social, economic, and the overall workforce. In the bill this is a process that is somewhat traditional when the work needs to be performed at the General Assembly. This is a way to give debaters a chance to resolve their differences by the appointed time, or the lesson will be passed on to a court of law. In order to promote an increased agreement on the decision of a formality, the bill contains the process of ordering a sentence to resolve a conflict. The Court shall appoint three representatives designated by Iceland's Supreme Court. The decision shall take into account the benefits of those who can be considered comparable, look to education, work, working hours, responsibility, and post-approval experiences from May 1, 2015, and general development of extremes in this country. At the same time, the decision must be made to ensure stability in the economic situation of the country. It has been completed no later than August 15 of our Common Era. A respectable president. Here I have traced the cause of this bill and suggest that it be at the end of this 1st. Refer to cover two. and the Board of Education and Public Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u84	A respectable president. We in the smaller part of the council have asked for a period of time, many weeks, even months, that the dress code, the bad prospects of work markets, then a very bad prowess and bad conditions of work markets, labour disputes, would be discussed in the commercial sales of the Alwards. It has been asked, based on the government's policy on these work issues, and particularly in cases where the State's authority itself is involved. I have to admit that it may have depended on the management position at the council not knowing that this is the highest. A seafood and agricultural minister who's going through the chicken business. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Perhaps it would have been a good first step to tell us so that we could have been able to speak to him directly. So I'd like to ask the highest. Seafood and agricultural Ministers: Why hasn't he met the demands of the smaller part to discuss the chicken business at the council hall so far? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u85	A respectable president. I spoke up in my language that it was not appropriate to speak lightly about such a matter. I'm here to give a speech. paritaprevir The Guðmundur son of Steingrímsson when law was set on strike, thus supporting the establishment of a sentence, more reasonable than cutting off the knot, as the former government did in that case. We thus suggest to postpone a strike, to give people a chance to talk, and within the period of duet, there is also a time and opportunity for debaters to find solutions to their individual solutions or issues. I believe this is a reasonable way, and this channel for discussion about this matter is in this place.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u86	A respectable president. I wasn't talking easy. It will take my position on this matter that it has not been a spontaneous demand for the smaller part of the council to discuss the dress code and very obviously serious position in the labour market over the past few weeks, but it has been a disagreement on a program that has been designed to allow it all to go away. There has been a red thread in our speech in the minority that this matter would need to be discussed. We have not seen any ideas from the government classifications on how to solve these issues, the BHM dispute where the state is involved in the contracts, e.g. no idea of entering the loan system or the housing system. It's all a beach, a perfect breeze, a perfect foolishness. Now it turns out it's the highest. A seafood and agricultural minister measuring for the only case of a decision-to-treat at this council. It's about making laws, and then he must handle these matters. [[The president calls.]] It's a question of how to get to the top. It is here that a health - care minister recommends a health care professional's legislation. I must ask him, "Do I feel the best?" The minister of these matters has been sufficiently discussed and prepared at a council during this session so that the action being proclaimed here can be justified? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u87	A respectable president. All I've done is that this discussion, both members of Congress, as well as members of Congress and Ministers, took place for a long time, many months. Of course, the Convention Committees have this assignment. There the conversation has taken place, as I did in my introduction. [[Up front.]] The question here is repeatedly asked why the person here is moving this bill. I've been through it, but I can repeat the debates that exist with people who are under four departments. It was the decision of the government to commit this case to the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u88	Mr. President. I have a question for the highest. Minister of honours and health care Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson of Jonga. In Comb 4. The bill says, "This law already comes into force." In 1st. Shows that strike measures, etc. has been prohibited from the implementation of the law and from the time of decision-making according to 2nd. Gr., if he comes to his command. In other words, they registered rights according to sections 74 and 75. The Constitution, compares 1 and 2. 1 1. The European Convention on Human Rights, here to be restricted, is transferred to the authority of three members of the Supreme Court. It is up to her to decide how long they will be reduced. How can it be possible to maintain a moderate standard of rights? Has a case of public employees, colleges, and nurses being without contracts and strike rights for one year, two years, three years? In the 3rd. refers, among other things, to collective agreements, indicating that the Court's judicial court is not a representative of the disputer and neutral pointer. Rather, it is the Supreme Court's own example of how long he will take these rights from humans. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u89	A respectable president. As mentioned in IV, it's fine. a section of the bill's comments, covering contract rights and how these laws pass the laws in the country, are explained well that, in certain cases, it is an emergency that when it comes to public goods, these actions can be taken. Instead of coming here and stopping the strike, it is submitted for continuation. There is still a chance to negotiate, and although a court order is on, there is still a six-week opportunity for a party to work out solutions for the individual issues and the whole case. A sentence may conclude, or take into account, according to the criteria of the procedure. I think this is a much milder way and that moderate measures are being taken to ensure and have a chance for the contract party to work out solutions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u90	Mr. President. Of course, taking from men the only weapon that bites, the strike rights is not a delay, saying that one can make a deal for two weeks. With what? With your hands open with no strike rights? It's a play of words. And that is a contradiction in the discussion of conditions that need to exist when the bill's report on page 24. 7: The above three main criteria must be set in order to compromise the right to strike and the terms of the contract of employee. A verdict must be based on law, but when it comes to a court order to determine how long, even for how many years, these groups will be without contracts and strike rights? Then I want to ask the highest. Minister to explain Article 3. What is it that it is all on account of the second stake, i.e. State, lists the evidence that the State has publicly held that the demands of academics cannot be met in terms of their education or academic loans, but the criteria for the State all stipulated? [[The president calls.]] Is that possible too?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u91	A respectable president. Regarding the first point, the text, if any, appears. A senator had continued to read that this subject has been determined into the court of the Supreme Court, which was mentioned earlier, that the legislation does not have to be generalized but may be able to intervene in certain debates by the legislatures. Other than that, I refer to this explanation phase, which is very clear and general and very comfortable. For the other thing, that it's only put here in Article 3. The law of one person's hand, of course, is not. This will take into account the benefits of those who can be considered comparable in education, jobs, working hours and responsibilities, and the events of collective agreements signed from May 1 and the general development of a married couple in this country. At the same time, economic stability is to be taken care of. The subject is also a general bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u92	V.E.G. President. I'm going to begin by saying that we in the United States are totally against this legislation, but now this bill is here for discussion, anyway. I wanted to ask the highest. Ministers to see if the agreements made with physicians at the beginning of the year fall below the criteria to be used in the procedure. It refers to the benefits of those who are comparable to those who can be considered education, jobs, work hours, and responsibilities. Should we not assume that this also refers to the medical contracts? If not, I'm going to ask a minister whether the government considers the women's classes unworthy of equal favors as so far as what has been defined as the male class of the health system.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u93	A respectable president. In this article, we will consider the need to maintain economic stability. In view of the fact that this has been the case, negotiations have been made with over 100 of you. The labour market must be such that when it comes to making a contract with others, it takes into account what is in it and it will not be disturbed. In addition, education, working, working hours, and responsibilities, as well as actions of collective agreements and general dress code development, should be taken into account. I don't think there's anything more to explain.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u94	V.E.G. President. I don't think it's clear enough. V.E.G. Minister only repeats the same old latrine that the women's health systems are responsible for economic stability in Iceland while the U.S.A. [Personal applause on the House of Congress.] The secretary of finance goes back to lunch in his category to talk about tax reductions instead of increasing health expenses. In the United States, we will deliver a proposed change proposal for it to be on the basis of the New Year's Eve. Of course, medical contracts should be taken into account in a procedure. It is evident from the date when the government does not view it. Let us see if the attitude of the discussion will not only change, and you will help us change this bill. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u95	The president directs the members of the council to pat, and the like is not allowed at the Assembly Hall and asks the members to respect it, please.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u96	A respectable president. I don't like talking about this subject down to the plan as a boy. The senator had it on. As far as I know today, women have become half the medical profession. I was working out two, three years ago in Denmark, where only six or seven Icelandic doctors, all girls, women. I don't think we should be mixing it together, I have to say right now. On the other hand, it is quite clear that for a long time the pay is paid to make nurses too low. It needs to be addressed, but it is not possible to do so without taking into account other areas of society in the country, no more than in any other contract. They must always be about us discussing economic stability as we can build up a society where we can gradually increase the level of money that we are doing major operations during those years. [[The president calls.]] Then I cut it at the end of the day. A senator said that he would not vote with this suggestion, which is a mild and moderate way, as I explained to him. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson's son. [[The president calls.]] I noticed, though, that there was a problem. During the last term, a senator made a thoughtless question about stopping a fight.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u97	V.E.G. Agricultural and marine eco-efficiency transports this bill for a strike including health care professionals for the government. I suppose the highest. Minister does not want to contribute a bill unless it is necessary, as he has said. But this bill is not necessary to resolve this issue. This bill is not necessary to stop this fight. This bill is not necessary to protect patients back in this country. It's not. The tax paid by the people of the land can be set aside as they would like by the medical system. In this case, it may cost up to 4 billion for 1,600 points, which cost 4 billion for 800 status values at the time of medical practice. Communicating with the doctors was well arranged, but it required that the list of waitings surface. You could have saved yourselves trying to raise the list of company and you could have written it, prioritized the local tax. [[The president calls.]] This bill is not necessary. What does the Minister say about that?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u98	A respectable president. As if in my case, when I spoke for the bill, it was sadly so that after a long period of labor, and long since the debate was referred to as state fair, the debates have not come together. Despite the efforts of the government to get the case on the way of reconciliation, it was also rejected. Then, during the last days, a crucial attempt was made. Sadly, it led to a different outcome for parties. In case of a moment. A senator means that negotiations in order to make the state work that the state always agrees with the highest standards of the party's contract, the other, are not treaties, and there is no conclusion. Then it will not be a community that we can build up, where all in the community will do their part and work on building a powerful society for the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u99	Just about the fact that the state always meets the highest standards, we know that, of course, so sweeping is not what this issue is about. This is a matter of priorities. What did a campaign advance? It was asked about the flight of workers and the longer waiting list for research and measures that would be an increasing problem of the health system. How will your team react to these problems? asked. I'm going to read the answer to the highest. Minister and ask if he agrees: The main value of health care is that there is an improvement in the quality of the human resources and the quality of the health professions and thus reduces the elimination within the class. The problem is that waiting for research has grown because the government has neglected to create circumstances and frames for the success of collective agreements. The government has neglected putting priority on existing tax dollars. There's room in the community for it, but the lists have grown up. How will the government respond to its own problems? Yes, by legalizing health - care professionals who will go along with them. [[The president calls.]] It creates a crisis in our country. [[The president calls.]] Is reducing the elimination within the health-groups as promised to prevent further expenditures?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u100	The president reminds us that speakers should start their talks with a certain complaint and be granted permission to read a written text.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u101	A respectable president. I know why. A senator knows better. The health system has been having too little money and what it takes for a long time. A senator knows that in the time of this government, priority has been given to the health system. [[Up front.]] This has been done in a significant way, so that there have never been a higher budget for the National Hospital, so we have lived in a policy that included the forwarding party talking about elections as to how we were looking for priorities. [[I didn't need 3 billion.]] It's not over yet. We need to go further. We need to make sure that we can keep up with the human race that is in Iceland and that this is why we are working on hopefully achieving total treaties, reasonable agreements that maintain stability, and thus have the potential to build a strong society where everyone can have it and that equations will continue to be the greatest in Europe at least or within OECD as we know he is today, in 2015. [[Not... now.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u102	A respectable president. I've been onto it in these chairs more often today that we've been calling for it in the last two months and talking to us about the job market situation. Has that been the case? No. In this room has been a request from us for a verbal report from the prime minister since May 19th. Has it been answered? No. And they do not even put forth a schedule to avoid discussing these serious matters at the General Assembly. I want to thank you again. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson for pointing out that our manifold audience has been found, and that's the highest. Minister Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, Minister of the Sea Road and Agriculture. It is true that this is a class of lawsuits or classes that hear under four different ministers. Would it not have been natural for the prime minister to have had a reputation in him to be on the side of this issue? Yes, it would have been normal. Instead, a professional road and agricultural minister is sent here in the field and the highest. The prime minister has disappeared from the council hall as he did before, all is as it should be. The prime minister won't show up here, he won't have a conversation with us about a single matter, so it's a question, Is it possible that we of the council will not change our request for a verbal report on the dress code and direct it to the highest level? Seafood and agricultural ministers instead. I wish he'd deal with her. This situation is completely unacceptable. If we look at the background, what's been going on here for the past month? Last year, such so - called peace treaties were made with these groups. Do they have a good time to have a conversation with these groups about choice-making, which I think they have a right to? No, the time was not used. Rather, the decision was to cancel the commission to the Association of Employment, so they were not responsible. When the strikes occurred, we called in this hall to talk about this serious situation because there may be a number of ways in which we could arrive. It can be in a way that allows us to make decisions on how to handle matters that can improve the standard of living for these groups, which is what they call. We can make decisions here on how to deal with these issues and how to deal with those contracts. Did they? No, they didn't. Was that what people were interested in? No, they didn't. This government's answer to our calls for this matter at the Hall is to present a bill that creates a work dispute, a law against these groups, and their right to protest their terms in the way they have done. Since its beginning here in April, we have been calling for this government to tell us how it was going to approach that issue. We were told of government ambassadors in the Assembly Hall that this matter would not be resolved in the halls of the Generals. What will the government do now? She was unable to handle the project, so she brings the matter in here and plans to push it down our throats to the point that these issues will be passed on because it is not in control of the project. Speak to the highest. The minister of foreign affairs emphasized the failure of man to handle the task. When people fail to handle their assignments, they hide behind someone else. V.E.G. Secretary of state, the minister of state, follows it below by hiding it, by taking some form of action with an advanced government. It can be pointed out to these fine men, and perhaps it should be. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir to come here and repeat it, that it was elections in the spring of 2013, but it seems that the distaste of an advanced government is so profound to these people that they cannot get out of it. As a result, they cannot have a policy for land and nation, for future policy, any guide to which to go because they are too busy trying to wind up the activities of an isolated government, as mentioned here. Who suffers? These are the groups that this government has been talking to for months now. Those are the ones who suffer when the government cannot get out of that tire. That's why we're in this position. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingibjörg Ingadóttir for her best challenge in response to the highest degree. Minister, it is not always possible to place the responsibility for the stability of the economy on the underprivileged unions, those with the lowest income in society, women's health professions. It doesn't work when they always send back that message: We can lower taxes, my friends. We're going to lower your taxes as the highest earner. That's what they've been doing here. The government policy has been this: If we lose our income from the highest income, if we lose the state's income from those who pay a fortune tax, if we don't earn money from those who pay for hunting fees, the state will lose income from the highest earners in this country, and get income by increasing our pay on health services, and by holding the lowest paid groups from the public down. It's a government policy. This management policy is protesting, and we do not want to take up the discussion on such a project. And since we're talking about the discussion, the highest. Minister, this debate on the basis of this government, is about to throw responsibility on these groups. As the situation is, if the minimum paid groups rise, the women's health professions, but not when tens of billions of money comes from fishing companies, or when they drop tens of billions of dollars, or reduce taxes on the highest income. No, it's not an inflation effect. Or when people raise the pay of those who earn the highest money in this country or bid a bank bonus. No, no, it's all out of the inflation, it doesn't affect the inflation. Only in terms of inflation and inflation are the interests of this government and economic stability when talking about the income of those who earn the lowest or those of women in health care. This isn't an acceptable statement. Such a statement is on a low level. A respectable president. Finally, I have to say that when we look at this matter, it is also quite clear, as shown in the case of fine senators who have spoken here today, and very strange how people are going to approach this matter, to plan a judgment, or they call it a judicial act to ask the Supreme Court to appoint a committee of three men. It's not a procedure. It is not acceptable to those in this dispute. It is also not acceptable to intend only to return to May 1. Of course, all of this year and what has happened in this cycle of contracts must be included. Of course. It cannot be avoided. Then I have to say, too, that when human rights are being taken untimely, humans cannot do so in this way. So we will strongly object when the matter comes to a committee. Here, a financial minister cried out today that there was a crisis in the hospital. This has often been promoted to us by government officials who oppose this law. Then I must ask: What about the future patients? Do you know the long - term consequences of these laws and procedures? The short - range vision of this approach is so great that we are not ready to face up to the attention of health care professionals. We have health care professionals on a worldwide scale that can work in their respective articles anywhere in the world. We've lost way too many to the north. I'm afraid that when men act this way to these groups, these important groups in our community, they will be increased, which will have long lasting and harmful effects on the health system. This government, however, seems to refrain from looking for a long time or looking at the big picture. That's why we're in this position right now, because they're going to try to get over their total impotence in these cases in the past few months. As we look at the groups here requesting that their election be added, we must also look at all their resources. There is no way to stand here and argue that there has never been more health care when it is clear that we have a living home, we have too old, we can't afford, of course, to use high - tech facilities for today's high - tech clinic, or to use other instruments necessary for every hospital in modern society. They can't say we're all right here. Nor can it be said that this is a health issue when we face the fact that 900 nurses will retire in the years ahead and that we will not be able to fill it. Nobody's looking at the bigger picture. It's just a matter to sort out the government now. I am concerned about the long term effects of this legislation, and I believe that these questions have also not been answered how the cumulative problems created within the medical system have been handled during the past few months. There are no answers on the bill. V.E.G. A health minister has been completely silent about the ways in which he sees it. And now, when we look at it in the face and the fact that when this is over, we have a vacation - don't you have to get shifted somehow in summer vacations? What's the plan? I'm just supposed to hang up here and think everything's gonna be okay? Of course it's not like that. The matter must be handled in a decent way. It's not the right way to do that. You need to look at the big picture and try to figure out how they're going to come out of it, with a strong health system in mind. This is not the way. I must also say that it is tragic that the government decides to do this at this point. Hv. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson and others have mentioned that next week the 100th anniversary of the election is women's rights. We're going to have a big celebration here on June 19th. In their contingency, this government is going to lay laws on large groups of women in the country. It is the contribution of this government to their celebration. A respectable president. It will be dark upon those celebrations if these laws become reality. The strike may end with this law, but the issue will not end. It is still there. I'm concerned about this position, especially because we have a lot of extremely talented people who can seek employment and the future in other countries at a much better rate and who are sought after by an employee. I think the government should be more concerned about that right now. I believe this is a long - term work of damage to health care.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u103	V.E.G. President. First, I'd like to ask the senator who earlier sat in the last government how the government, and all other governments that have been there, would have solved this. The bill says on page 18. 9, with President's permission: ON June 6, the issue of the reign and the debate took place. June 8th. concluded that the Synod committee would not add anything to the current discussion process and that it would not solve a party's quarrel. In turn, members had a meeting with the governor of June 10th. ... andI 'lldo it. Now I'm going to ask you what. A senator who was formerly a member of the government who has had this experience: How would the senator have solved this dispute? Now she has had experience with such a session and has previously agreed to establish laws on the debate, I ask again how the senator would like to resolve this dispute. For truly there's a bad situation, no one wants to set the laws we're making here. It showed that I find inexpensive ways at hunting costs, and we can have quite different opinions about it. But we don't make money like that. And all of us in this room agree that you can't make aggravate the pay in just one jump, two and three, you can't. This needs to be done in a certain way. I think everybody agrees on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u104	A respectable president. Is anyone asking for a raise in the pay? Is the group in just one session asking for a raise in the remuneration? I don't think so. This is a request for a fair dresser. They are also asking for them to be discussed. This was not done in the leading of these conflicts. It wasn't done, and that's why it's all gone awry, because the government decided to cancel the agreement and wait, tell us here that this is not our business, there'll be people at the labour market that solved it. They turned it away. In other words, nothing was done until last week when a public labour market had been negotiated, it was last week. So, what does this government bring? By law on the debate. With law. That's the result. A respectable president. Yeah, that's right, I've been in the government, did it for four years. Then we once brought such legislation in, that was under unprecedented conditions following a volcanic eruption, and it was estimated that there would not be flying to and from the country. It was difficult, very difficult, but at that time, we also had a fight with health - care professionals and others, but they did not need legal action because they agreed. This government is entering the fourth act of legalization in two years. It's a pattern, it's a methodology. This has become the way of the government to negotiate with its owners. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u105	V.E.G. President. Whether it is one or four, it does the same thing. Hv. A senator has to understand that. It won't change this. Here we need to be realistic and sensible, that's right. I don't like the fact that I'm being made up that I'm talking about nurses asking for some court-duce salary. I said, however, that it does not mean asking for any requirement that is completely unrealistic, that is absolutely true. Everyone agrees on that, all classes. Then I would ask the senator: " Should we not negotiate with doctors? ' Were we not to accept their demands? Maybe get the senator's opinion of it. I asked the senator again with the experience of serving in the government: How is this dispute to be solved, since we certainly do not have money? It's best to get her opinion on that. It's definitely not over yet. It doesn't end with this law. The challenge is under intense pressure, and hopefully this law will take its final effect.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u106	A respectable president. Of course, there is a difference between once in four and a half years, or four times in two years. There is a difference. That difference is that all the other arrangements were made. Do you think we haven't had a fight in this last term? [[Up front.]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, But what happened? They made a deal. This government, however, no longer exists, has ceased to negotiate. She asks the employment organization to negotiate for her, and if you don't agree to have it cremated down into your throat, they're laid on. [[For example, were we not supposed to negotiate with doctors?]] That's what men do here, a respectable president. [[Up front.]] And that's why we're protesting here. It's this discouragement and what this government is doing, so we're protesting. This government has given up on the project. [[The point is, weren't we supposed to negotiate with doctors?]] She's given up her mission now, and she's given up her hands, saying, "If you don't want what the public market agreed on, you'll only get your laws. It's the work force. This is what people are going to do. This is what men have decided to do here. I have to say just as it is, of course, it's not an acceptable situation. And if any. A senator is so happy that at the beginning of the year, men have worked with doctors, so why don't people want them to be taken into account in the committee that is supposed to try to figure out how to solve these matters? Why, then, does this bill ignore taking into account the agreements? I have to say exactly as it is, a respectable president, that I feel sorry when it comes to people's decision that they cannot handle such a project and in some way try to cover it up by pointing to others. [[The president calls.]] This government must begin to admit that it is just not good at dealing with things. What do you do under such circumstances? You lay down your weapon, you resign and you report to the election. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u107	Mr. President. It's got to be. The members of the greater part, now few of which remain in this hall, are concerned, that this is the fourth time the government gives a bill for the legislation on strikes during this terms. Two of these bills became legal. It was the first bill placed on employees on the Navy 1st April 2014. Right then, I had and many more people had it. Councilmen gave a warning about the example that this law would set up. The next bill was about the continuation of strike operations for pilots, that was accepted, and became the law. Then there was a bill for the Three Aviation Act. Pilots withdrew strike operations before the law was accepted. Here's the fourth bill. I must say, Mr. President, there may be a case in which the legislation is justified in a strike, but then it must be a very rich interest. What I'm worried about, if it's approved, is that there's a marked change in the trend that has been in the labour market since the turn of the century, where there's been very few laws, better off than ever. As we look at the development of the 2000 world, it appeared to be an isolated case. It is said that we must look at each case specifically, that's certainly true, but we must be concerned that this seems to be a rich trend for the present government. The season's only halfway there. I ask, What is the motivation to achieve government contracts if this is always in memory as the ultimate solution? I'm also worried about that, and I'll come closer in my speech, how the repeated legislation will accurately affect the future of the labour market and of the farm's farms. Of course, if we look at the situation itself, we must remind them that we have the Constitution rights, which is the right of the contract. It is also based on the European Convention on Human Rights, which defines what it takes to really protect the right to fight for the purchases and benefits of employers. The cutting right has been considered the most important way to ensure the freedom of trade unions. In the Convention of Human Rights, the interpretation is given that the right to strike is dependent on only the limits of laws, and is necessary in a democratic society because of national security, the public goods, or the material success of the nation in order to expose chaos or crime, to protect human or moral health, rights, or the rights of others. It must always be seen when a bill like this is presented. Hv. We need to review the case and determine if these conditions are met, because we also have a legal example from the seaman strike where judgment was passed and agreed on multiple criteria for ASI on this matter. So let us see that this is where the committee needs to take a good time to review these criteria. There is also a possibility that some of the unions here, i.e. One of the members of the BHM table is sure to be healthcare professionals, but we also have other professions that cannot be identified as threats to health or other factors I mentioned. Surely, then, these requirements need to be considered. We know that within the BHM requirement, there have been not only dressers but also government donations requirements in other areas. I've come to some people here, including... that there will be something done with regard to the loan fund of Icelandic students and that health institutions will also be supported. We all know that there is a great need. I also know that it is important to revise the laws of Icelandic students and go over there to form the reimbursements we offer. The system needs to be permanently changed. The Parliament offers suggestions on the current issues in agreement with the labour market and the student movement. They lay before the council during the winter of 20121⁄2013, but, unfortunately, they did not succeed. I'm sorry, I'm telling you, because we can talk here about the need to go new ways, and we need to be brought closer to the Norwegian labour market model. Yeah, let's do that, but we'll get closer to the North countries in other areas, make sure that people don't have debts all their life, to pay off their education all their lives, and to change our system properly. The suggestions are all on the board. All it takes is a political will. We have seen that the government has, of course, made contributions. They have made contributions into commercial agreements. They have signed declarations in connection with medical contracts. They have made declarations in connection with contracts with high school teachers. Where is the will of the government in these contracts? The tax reductions and decommission of one step in the fiscal tax system have been reported to be 15◯17 billion. Mr. President. When governments can use collective agreements to achieve their policy, the good old cryfreeism policy based on tax reductions, based on various other factors, a policy that is long bankrupt - I was here last yesterday at the highest level. Secretary of finance for a recent study of Cambridge University on the effect of this policy following Margrét Thatcher's reign in Britain. The results are striking because they show that the policy we teach in the treatment of new health problems caused an increased unemployment rate, an inequities, but also slowed society's growth. It slowed down society's growth and prosperity. So, when we now put the job in the box, this policy gets zero in all areas, but the Icelandic government hasn't heard of it and all it has to do is put down here. It is also said of some Norwegian labour market model, but it is not willing to attack for changes to ensure the norse welfare system along with a Norwegian labour market model. This needs to be together, Mr. President. If we are to create some peace regarding such changes, these things need to be combined. It's only about what's going on here. This has been discussed with the order of a so - called formality. The bill says that the U.S. Supreme Court shall appoint three men in a court of law. When we got to the top bill. Governments on the legalization of pilots'strike were appointed to appoint the Supreme Court to appoint the Chairman and Controversy, the Organization for Professional Affairs, and the FIIAH of the Icelandic Professionals. That's how the sentence is usually organized, isn't it, Mr. President? There's a place for the debaters. I ask, "Why is this done? " As far as I can see, with this order we're talking about a administrative committee arranged to get to the bottom of the case. It is a rigid arrangement, as has been described here by many of the whales. Councilmen, this is a list of the collective agreements signed since May 1, 2015. It is not to be photographed in accordance with annual contracts. I suppose the smaller part will all support the adjustment proposed here for that date. But economic stability is also discussed. Then I think it's important, Mr. President, how exactly we define economic stability. Is the stability of the economic climate needed to keep a certain pay religion in the community? Is that what steady economic conditions are about? We have, of course, heard an interpretation that economic stability is primarily the responsibility of those who have less pay. It's the interpretation that has sometimes been left here. I don't think there's any way that we could ever become stable in the economy unless we guarantee a certain equation in the community. V.E.G. Ministers have been diligent to remind that income balance is good in Iceland, it's increased. That is correct, compared with 2013 figures - 2014 statistics, reports the highest. The performer, who still depends on the development of the previous years. At the present level. Of course, governments pay attention to this success is contraband, in view of the action it has been taking, especially in the field of taxes, not being able to increase the level of income. We must worry about what I mentioned at the outset and want to come back at the end of my speech. In Iceland, since the turn of the century, there has been a reduced number of strikes legislations. Many, including me, have believed that this is a device that hopefully will soon be out of date, that we change our culture on these matters, so we don't have to look at the fact that the Generals are entering this mess. I ask you, what is the motivation to negotiate if there are always laws at the end of the tunnel? Who is particularly responsible for this case by governments to negotiate if such laws exist? I also realize that a collective agreement, if we can talk about it, won't be changed in one condition. Of course not! This will be done over a period of time through contact between parties based on mutual respect and conversation. I'm sorry to hear from the leaders of their trade unions involved here that they experience that these talks have not been seriously part of the government. I think it's important to go. We'll review it on our discussion, because if we're going to change this culture, we're going to have to think this over a longer period of time. Then everyone will have to sit at the table and experience the fact that real conversation is going on. I also worry about how these cases look for a long time, because, as all the public in this country, I can agree with the concerns I know many patients have; of their position, of waiting for results and such, but we must also think for a long time, Mr. President. What you see is that 900 nurses are entering retirement age. We expect 450 nurses to be released at the same time. We already hear in many nurses and other health care professionals who wish to move abroad. This is not an isolated situation, as if I had a place to speak at the highest. Health Minister, this is a bigger problem, but should we not put forth every effort to build up for the future in order to make sure that this will not happen? Mr. President. I would like to go so far as to say that there is one basis for us to be a successful and independent state that here, oppressive health and education systems. There are foundations in our society. That's what people in the country must be able to count on to be there. I'm afraid we'll look at some of these consequences that I hope they won't, I really hope, and mean from the heart that we're looking forward to some structure in the immediate future in this sector, that people feel that they want to be here in Iceland and work, but we also know that these are the most sought-after workers. All I think about is the position of those who will live here in the future. Won't we have to stay, Mr. President? Because such a matter may have long - term consequences, even though growth is gradual. This can have long - term consequences for the health of Icelanders, who have had to take on heavy loads, as the nation throughout the past seven years. On one occasion, everyone took on less pay, ran faster for less. That's true of all the interiors of society, all the public systems, and I say we should more than thank all these people for taking them loads with all of us, including the people of the general market. But now when we discuss that the prospects for the economy are brighter, that development is about to begin, it is a shock to get legalization of the function of all these employees just when we should look to a brighter age and build up. Mr. President. I'm very worried about the consequences of this case, if that's the law here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u108	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech. Of course, the General Information and Education Committee will be able to handle this matter and discuss, among other things. A senator points out. But there is one thing in the matter of the senator that I wanted to understand. Here it is assumed that a sentence will be appointed to three men designated by the Supreme Court. This is not unique. When disputes or songs have been placed in an argument where more than one partner is involved, this way has been chosen in some cases. Counts 'em out. A senator of any particular flaw of that? Could they not be able to set a good example? There are some special reasons why members of the body of elders may be upset. A senator who is president of a party speaks a lot about this point in the discussion?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u109	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. The reason we are concerned about this is that we feel that, although there are more than one union, it is only natural that the unions had been assigned to appoint one representative in common and that the State, in the same way, had appointed one representative into such a crime. After consulting us, the brief one who gave the opinion of the case this morning, we believe that it is a more reasonable way to go in order to be able to talk about a procedure. I know that. I know it as well as I know it. A senator noted, however, that this has been done in this way. We also have the other way, and that was the case, as I did in my case, in the law of professional pilots. We believe that this means a more natural way to ensure the presence of those who are involved in the issue of such a judgment. That's our food.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u110	A respectable president. I'd like to start by going back to the other side. Konráðsdóttir My Brá Bárlóstir, and answer my question. paritaprevir KatrínUnnur Jakobsdóttir's daughter, in regard to this procedure. In fact, I experience it so that there are an incredibly stringent approach to a very complex debate when it is assumed that the Court is not appointed to handle the issue. This is a big surprise to me. I hear the voices of those in these fight fights that people experience it so much that considering how the government has approached the ceremony of extreme inflexibility, I hear, would have the government and government, in fact, could have brought a bill to legalize the way these terms should be. Isn't that just cleaner? Instead of being on the interstate to the Supreme Court ordering any of three outsiders to determine the terms of the government's terms, the grounds attributed to the report, it would be much more clean to bring a law on how these terms should be. There's no negotiations here. It's being rejected here. They're rejecting the basic Princes who should be employed in the labour market that the debate should try to reach a conclusion, that is, to disassociate it. Tragedy always works. They always affect third party. I guess a strike that wouldn't affect a third party would be a blunt, useless strike. Tragedy is a serious matter. The current strike is very serious, e.g. for the health care status. I can hear it from LSH that there's a very serious situation. Let's face it. But that is why it is also so important to get serious but not to get into such a job situation. We've advertised in the memory of the council for weeks, even for months, what should be done when it was realized that it was headed for this situation - in fact, it's been a long time since it became clear. For example, I felt that what was being done in the budget for this year and in the government's income institutions, was incredible, considering the conditions that were about to come up. It was undergoing measures such as shortening unemployment days, continuing cheating on donations to the reimbursement fund, continuing demolition of the feeding reserve, very dreary association on the insurance fee, and completely without consulting the labour market. That's it. That's it. That's it. Since then, we have witnessed this lax attitude toward the educated personnel of the state, to educated staff in Iceland. What's the situation? The situation is simply that we are competing with other nations on this labor force, competing with other nations on this labor force. V.E.G. The prime minister was well aware of this when he wrote on November 21, 2012, with the permission of a president: In Norway a lack of nurses is so great that any Icelandic nurses, some 2,800, could have jobs there. Jobs in general are much better paid than in this country. Lately, there has been a very active demand for Icelandic nurses to work in Norway and it has been realized that if there is nothing to do to improve the situation in this country, new ones, as well as experienced people who are now working at the institutions of the state, will look seriously at them. It was written by the highest. Then the prime minister, and I think the situation is completely unchanged. It's the competition we have, and it's not just about nurses, it's also all the educated labor we're in. What would an ambitious government do at such a time? Did she perhaps set up a program that would require us to design some policies here in Iceland, a schedule of action to avoid being in the competition? Could that plan be, for example, about reducing the rate of student loans? That loans, such as those mentioned, are turning into scholarships in many other parts of the North, and is it important for educated workers there? Is that possible? Is it possible to restore the birth of a stock that is of great importance to all the young educated people who are moving abroad and are considering moving at this point? Would it really be possible to do something about housing so that people would be more inclined to live for them? Can new creations and technological development, green industry and creative branches be considered so that these people have greater advantages here? That's it, isn't it? Don't you think there's a struggle to keep these people? Why does the government not show such a game? Why does she not at any point try to start a conversation with this important group of people? It's not just about pay percentages. It is also about how man's policy and how he has behaved toward this amazingly important work force in Iceland. It takes several million to educate a person. Therefore, we say that education is an investment. There can never be a good policy that we're on the education in this country, trying to do it with ambition, but that the labor force exists for export, and all these good people, all these talented people, will then pay taxes elsewhere. That's not a good model for the Icelandic economy. We must begin an effort to keep these people on the land, not just for the health field, but for society in general. This is what I criticize. The government will make absolutely clear on this project. Now comes the card: it's supposed to be a law. I've been critical of the procedure. I really find it amazing that he should be set like this. Must be changed to the Committee. I also criticize that the bill should not refer to the collective agreements made with doctors and the collective agreements that have been made with teachers, for example. In fact, collective agreements that have not been addressed according to the date should be addressed because they have not been agreed on. There's a flaw in this bill. A sentence also determines whether these classes can cross heads in a future strike. A three - man sentence, as written by the law, now appointed by the Supreme Court, may determine that its time of decision is unlimited. The classes below should not have the right to strike during the period of judgment, but there is no comment on the time limit for the decision of a crime. So we're hiding some three people, maybe they'll all be men, it would be now, in accordance with the motion, to decide, in fact, completely, the plans for the future for those classes to become. This is incredibly radical. This is incredibly unscrupulous. It's incredibly cross-country, but it may not be compared to the way the government has approached this clumsy dispute. What do I hear? I hear within these controversies that the workers, the unions, have repeated all kinds of invitations, all sorts of ideas of solution. That's why hearing the highest part was something. The secretary of finance goes to a pontte earlier and says, "Is the state to accept all demands? It's the approach. No, the government is not to accept all the demands, but the government is to listen and appreciate the demands set on the table and then make counter proposals. You see, this is negotiation. And it is only natural at some point for parties in negotiations to set their highest standards on the table, and it is only natural for them to wait for some response, to get an answer. I understand that the answer was always on one of the books, that was just no. No, no, no. No discussion, no contracts, no continuation, and then just law. It's a management style. It's some kind of I'm in charge, my dad's a cop, and he doesn't work. We'll experience him at the council too. There's a situation here and it's been about 80 cases. And the offer we've been made, the only thing that's actually been on the table maybe until lately, was: you can accept a very controversial transformation proposal for the continuum transfunctioners, and then you can accept anything else. It's been the offer. Our search in the smaller parts, efforts to talk about this in an upbuilding way, has also been met with the same negative and has been a red thread in response to the government's demands of a labour market. This wall in communication, this way to deal with other people, it doesn't work. It is hoped that as many people begin to realize that we are looking at a total bankruptcy of a government commandor that seems to have ruled the government's camps. Yeah, what's to be done? Are we going to raise the interest rate and thus expand the country's population? It may well be that collective agreements have come into disrepute and have failed to control expectations. There's a lot I can say about the layoffs of collective agreements. I think there needs to be some kind of general agreement in society on the basis of gradifications. I think at this point and long ago, we should have realized that it's really far from Iceland that we've reached that agreement. This, of course, is to be an assignment. We need to put some restraint into this conversation and how it should be done. People are concerned about expansion, but people are not entirely concerned with themselves with that concern because, in one word, they can be worried about the expansion and in the other, about going into debt abduction procedure of 150 billion, depending on how they are calculated, which is simply to distribute money from the treasure of the state, mainly to people who have a lot of money and who own a lot of possessions. It is reasoned in this context and in the unprecedented operation that there is nothing to worry about. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. There's a lot of talk here, perhaps as a result of a lot of money coming into the state fund, that they're going to go on massive tax downs, paying off customs. They can be fine, but are they not also concerned about expansion? Why not? You're talking here crazy, and you'd like to go to three of the continuum transfunctioners at least as soon as possible, before five o'clock. Doesn't that have an effect on society? Men agreed to medical contracts, and they must be examples for other agreements in health care, right? The doctors were not discussed, but they also based on the fact that expert doctors, doctors in the labs, were given, I would say, an almost automatic rise in their registrations the previous year. There was no discussion of expansion. You need to be social parties in the discussion of filing. I'm worried about this. But such concerns must apply in all things. Now, the sad conclusion is that during the 100th anniversary of women's election, other classes that we may not call the women's castes have gone into a strike and got their way and never had a legal discussion, but now when major women are in a strike, it is possible not just to set laws against those strikes, but to cut off the contract completely and to hide three people on the Supreme Court to decide this, even in the future. It's a disgrace.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u111	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a very good speech and rationality, and only hope to the highest. A health minister goes to great lengths to his seat and cheers under such a speech. I review it because I was sitting here in 2004 that at that time, a former government felt it was necessary to complete a basic school teacher's work on law. Then it was the highest. Prime Minister who gave that bill. But who is known as we have seen today is afraid of the highest. The prime minister of Davíð Gunnlaugsson did not marry to present this matter in an equal way that he should have done because the bill's code is class under four generals. Could it be that there was a weakness on this bill? I have considered this matter considerably after that, and it seems to me that the government will find it very difficult to defend this entity from foreign courts. It is a violation of the terms and constitutions allowing it, but only with very narrow conditions, including There are certain conditions that need to be met by the European Convention on Human Rights. The key article in that article shows that the right of public employees in this field can be restricted and richer than the rights of public employees, which are specifically taken for military and police officers. Who are they? Those who exercise official authority. They cannot be found in this group. Six years ago, in a court of justice, it was found that it was very difficult for a government to establish laws that forbade all to go to strike. That's almost what's going on here. There's 17 unions underneath here. I've never seen anything like it. Counts 'em out. A senator says that this may be the reason for the Supreme Court. The prime minister dare not add his name to this evil document? [[The president calls.]] He knows that he has a bad cause to defend, although experience shows that he is usually very good at it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u112	A respectable president. There are two things in the management style that draw attention to this matter, one on the other hand, approaching negotiations, so just saying repeatedly no and then no and then no and then no and then jump into the absolute resources that are making laws, which, especially in the prehistoric view, that, in view of the legality where the government has not been exposed to a great deal of agreement, I hear, must be at the level of violation of human rights, I don't say any more. It's so true. According to one U.S. senator, this workforce is going in a very radical way into the Constitutional rights of workers to negotiate their terms. There are very many groups put under the same hat, very many. Usually in terms of law against strike cases, in this case there are castes to which the state is relevant, but we may have seen laws on strikes where urgent interests have to be taken in because of the long - term failure of two disputers in society. This is a very general legal case, which is primarily based on government approach to negotiations, which is a transfector. It supports the possibility of human rights violations. I said two things in the management style got attention. However, this is the one that is apparently done in the government, the government has clearly become so overwhelmed by all the evils she makes here repeatedly, that she has decided in her order by such a process that she has been able to measure out for them. [[The president calls.]] It's quite new and very interesting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u113	Mr. President. V.E.G. At least a prime minister is not the example of some others with the discouragement he shows. He throws it into one of his fine advisers, a case that, of course, he was to deliver himself if he felt the need to do so. Why? Because the case is so bad. I think it will be very difficult for the government to defend this in court if the case gets this far. I'd like to kill on top of what is said in the court that fell in 2009, with the permission of a president: ▪ While bans against strikes could include certain categories of government employees, it could not be impossible to forbid all of them to go into a strike, as in the case of discussed, including the following: Staff of state companies.How many are there? It may be funny, but Mr. Faithful, this bill, for example, covers the Icelandic music song and Iceland's Film Actors Association. In other words, the symphony and the National Theater are being banned by law. According to this sentence, it will not stand. So I think if there's any way to put a hook in this point then all the legal procedures will fall on the court. I think the highest. The prime minister who has a special office and specialists who enter into the legal arrangement of international commitments and constitution simply knew that he was there on slippery ice, on a hook that could break away from him. Of course, this case is all a case and the hookway it has come to the government with nothing and mustard. Her first work was to negotiate with specialists at 23%, with doctors of 30%, with teachers of almost 30%, and how can other academics be denied or compared to doctors and nurses, to ask for the same thing? It doesn't make sense. So I say, it's the government that created this problem. Then she's here with this precocious mess that will not stand before any international court and intends to finish it that way and the highest. Prime Minister is afraid to pronounce the matter. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u114	A respectable president. I agree with the assessment that this is a perfect mess. It's completely lacking an overall perspective on the government's case on the case. It has yielded nothing but wealth in trying to prevent this situation at the labour market, trying to establish an overall score of collective agreements. I agree, too, with the greatest discouragement. Prime Minister not to present this matter. It's an interesting theory. A senator because it certainly looks like a violation of governmental rights, like a violation of human rights, especially when the case is put in the context of that statement that the court of three persons should not only decide on some particular agreements but, in reality, he is authorized to decide for a future time whether these groups, symphonyians, actors, nurses, veterinarians, lawyers have the right to go to a strike at some point. That's the bill, that's how it's written. If the case goes through like this, I think it will fall in court, at least Describes the ideologies there showing gross disrespect for these rights of the people, for the right of the contract. Yeah, I'm on top of it. The prime minister is discouraged that he knows not to put forth this matter. I think it's strange how this case was decided. Of course, it's under the government, it's a big deal, and it should be taken from the highest level. Prime Minister. But I'd like to commend two counsellors who sit here, and the case is very much, that's the highest. Secretary of health and the highest. Minister of society and housing, who, at least, sit here and listen to the discussion. The issue is primarily and to a large extent the highest. Secretary of health. I hope I hear these two counsellors, and we get their input into this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u115	A respectable president. It's always a pleasure, I suppose, if a man's prayers are answered and both kindly and obliged to address this discussion here and plan to keep an eye on it. I'm going to explain my position on this matter, and I'm going to approach that discussion on the basis of my responsibility and responsibility as a health minister. Under these conditions are patients who attend a health - care service and then our good staff who work within the circle. The correct point that has been made to the speaker repeatedly is that they must be weighed down in this matter, with the sadness of having to put a law in a fight, the long - term effects of the short - term, and the short - term effects of the decision presented here. If we look at the scene as it is, since the beginning of a strike battle between doctors, 33 weeks ago, about 20 weeks ago, three months ago, there have been medical strikes, and at that time the service has been virtually confined to emergency services. This has been possible through very good cooperation with union unions, which have, in effect, allowed health institutions to receive necessary extra care so that emergency procedures could carry the primary objective of ensuring patient safety where possible in these circumstances. I insist that all health - care professionals are striving to do their jobs in any area, but it is absolutely clear that it is a long way from looking for those who are looking for them in the way of normal and reasonable ways. It has also been mentioned here for a long period of time under extreme pressure by employees who have worked now, as I have described. Now it is time to feel that the summer experiences of those who are long - awaited and deserving. Similarly, it calls for our roads and our appreciation for the means by which health services in Iceland can serve and fulfill their tasks that are legally directed to them. If we look at the situation, even if only on June 8, what would be the situation there? How are we doing in the ministry? Yes, the number of active beds in the Land Hospital has decreased by 130. 300 imaging studies have been delayed. 200 cardiac catheterisations have been delayed. On the usual day, they are less than 100. 5,600 days and walking visits have been delayed and 700 operations have been delayed, of which 700 are the 200 operations since the first of June, after the condition of nurses. In this situation, patients are becoming increasingly difficult to ensure safety. It'll lead to it on its own. Then the question that we responsible for is: How long will it be to make contracts? How long do employees and patients have to wait for us to see in some way that we can start working on the work we all want to do? Although this controversy will be brought to earth in this way, not everything will be immediately restored to perfect health. That's a long road away. There will be a lot of work to be done there, and it will take weeks, months to initiate the health system, regardless of what the issue is now over, whether it has contracts or has the arrangement set out here. I have to admit wholeheartedly that I feel that I have a situation in mind and that I speak for, among other things, the patient of these matters and rely on them to form the opinion and reviews of an official surgeon who has given us all a fine perspective and his opinion on the position that exists there. He has considered the situation to pose a real threat to the health of people who are doing business or who have the privilege of attending to our health - care system in Iceland. When you look at the faces of it that over the past few weeks, the agreements of the parties, the state and the trade unions have had no success in approaching, and even at the last meeting held before it was permanently broken out in the same bikes as previously driven, I say, "My patience is complete in that subject, and I demand that we return the matter to a different direction. ' Also, a warrior does not trust to make a suggestion to make peace or to make a compromise. It was attempted to go as the government first came up in connection with the medical strike, using the law on dress and work dispute, ordering a reconciliation committee. It was an excellent idea, but it did not work out, nor did it pass anything. In the course of the past few weeks, hopes in those who are in desperate straits have arisen from time to time when the discussion has started again. When they have nothing to compare with, and they break down, they find themselves worrying about others that these people have about their health. I simply think in the position that we, who are responsible for this service, are the ones who leave the patients and those who need to submit to the health system, to this uncertainty, anxiety, and discomfort, or we need to take on the responsibility and burden of a difficult decision. I'm gonna do it. I'd rather take it on myself than let patients stay with this uncertainty. As soon as I say so, I readily admit that I'm concerned about the long-term effects of this design, serious concern, because we are competing for this fine labor with other nations. But as I've described in my speech, I don't think this same situation will be over and I don't see anything in the maps today suggesting that the parties are about to approach, not anything. Then I would, in fact, have hoped that a peacemaker would make a suggestion that might be the basis for a person to get it done in his votes, but unfortunately, he appreciated the reconciliation between the debaters too much for him to rely on him to do so. I think it is irresponsible not to cut the knot on this position and, under no circumstances, I don't want to deviate from that responsibility, and I shall bear the cross that will result in the handling of the situation. I draw attention to the fact that in this bill it is also possible for both debaters for two, three weeks to work on reconciliation, and I expect both sides to do so, and I hope that they do not need to be tested on the date of July 1, as this is set up here. I suppose that's what it is. Councilmen want to comment further on the various issues that have been mentioned in the discussion and are linked to agreements with other classes, health care equipment, currency, etc. There are quite a few misinformation in the discussion that I shall be glad to correct if I have the opportunity to do so afterward.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u116	Mr. President. I'd like to have a place to talk to. A minister who gives him the opportunity to correct the basic wrongs he concluded his talk. We know this, and I mentioned in my speech that it has been one of the requirements of BHM in this dispute that it is important to strengthen the specific management of health institutions. I just want to ask the highest. A minister directly outside: What has the government been willing to put on the table in that regard? We know that, too, and the highest. Minister knows action is needed. He mentioned it here that recovery from these injuries would take time for the medical system to recover and talk about a month. But is it not nearly acceptable to talk about longer periods of time unless some drastic action comes to build up here and initiate an application in these matters? I'd like to get that right, because I'm at the top. Says a minister: There have been some comments and not all right here, and I would like to be corrected. [[Up front.]] Please. Come and tell us what governments are ready to put on the table in these materials. I'm waiting for the highest, too. A minister to tell us what the government's priorities are in order to report tax reductions. Already, tax reductions have been reported to the total number of 15◯17 billion. Further tax reductions are being proclaimed. V.E.G. The secretary of finance is holding a special lunch meeting today to discuss this matter. Where are we going to get the money to go to the structure needed so badly? At any rate, we may seem to agree in this hall that such structure is truly needed, but at the same time we are sacrificing our income. It's not the right way to get to these things. So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister in priority management, whether it is more important for him to continue trying to earn some money in order to build up. As we all know, there has been a difficult time in the medical system. Is it proper for us to make further tax reductions, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u117	A respectable president. Thank you. A member of the council responded, as well as her eloquent speech earlier. Although I didn't necessarily agree with all the points in it, it was measured with great calmness and reasonableness, yet there were some basics that I didn't agree with. There were no errors, however, that were observed in other members of the council, since it is not appropriate for patients to have a higher transfusion of health care. That's wrong. The charge and share of patients in the Icelandic healthcare system was 19.2% in 2013 and decreased to 18.9% in 2014, so I don't see how people have found this. I agree with it. A member of the United States noted: "To strengthen your institutions and especially your health care. " In the last two of our budgets, we have made an effort to make use of the limited amount of funds that we have been made to support the hospital service. I've said it before in this room that it's time now that the space we may be given will be first, and last, in the service we're supposed to give. When I mention weeks and months, it will only lead on by itself that summer vacations will be held in mid August. We assumed that at the end of the medical strike, the waiting list has been reorganized, but the resulting losses have been severed, and there have been no time for health officials to make plans for them to work. Since they have been on the alert primarily to provide emergency services for the situation, the long - term thinking of the system has been turned aside in the past two months.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u118	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I think the cost of a patient's involvement is a matter that needs special attention and development in that subject, but I would like to ask the highest level of questions. Minister: Do we expect any plan for the increase in medical contributions, as mentioned here, to health care as a whole that can be used to resolve these issues that are in complete turmoil? This is a deadline, a delay for parties to make contracts. Do we have any government handout for further contributions to these factors? I'd also like to reiterate my question from earlier on, how we exactly will see that government funds will be lent when the main source of AIDS, so that I allow myself to gossip, the government seems to be that abdicating the public and the state with its tax reduction policy, as mentioned in my speech. We're looking at a lower income of the state's budget of 1,5 to 17 billion, depending on the amount of money that came here last, which is being proclaimed to continue. Is it not more correct to try to build up the income base and try to live up to the needed structure?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u119	A respectable president. We are preparing budget for the next year, which includes the factors that take place. A senator will discuss in the support of individual services. Of course, I would answer that question as a question. A senator showed about tax reductions and the importance of our independent people on them. First, I'd like to conclude that a tax reduction turns to improving the interest of the people, the individuals who earn money with their bread plan. I'm simply thinking that reducing the taxes on individuals is better, except that my core opinion is that individuals are more trustworthy in handling money than politicians are. Experience has shown that individuals are better off making valuables on the basis of their hard work than politicians in the past have ever succeeded.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u120	A respectable president. It is true that there are large examples during the past few months that support that claim. Ministers that many politicians treat public funds badly and could have used public funds to lead this situation into a workforce in an effort to prevent this situation. V.E.G. A minister may have traced the disaster and the dangers of these strike measures to the health institutions of the country. I would never demean it. But I might look a little different. I would have thought that this very dangerous situation and this miserable situation should be a huge incentive for both sides to try to achieve deals because I don't think that it is that it is just a government representative who sees the miserable situation. I allow me to state that for no one, the situation is just as tragic and tragic as seeing it as it is for nurses and other health - care groups who are working and who have educated themselves in nursing and in caring for health care. I wonder if those classes also hate to see this situation. Nobody wants to wear this. Therefore, this situation, which will create to inspire both parties to try to achieve agreements. This should always be the solution. I fear that it is creating a moral hazard for the State when men so lightly associate with legalistic authority that they simply say no and then go into the law. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: What has he done to try to have a positive influence on this situation in the workplace? Has he brought in any of these issues with the medical professions in this process? What are they, and how have they been taken?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u121	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I think that in general, the understanding of those whom we have discussed and in other cases is that there is not something that is being minimized in any way in the medical system. The situation is very serious, and I feel that people in general are associating with the situation with that attitude just to be said. But we are trapped in some position that I have considered, so we must break out, and it will be said very late about the person here who was involved in putting a law on a strike of some kind of lightweight. I have been very persistent about not coming to do so. I've encouraged negotiations, I've talked about, because there's a question here, with the parties on both sides of the table, pressed things, walked after meetings have arrived, etc. Meanwhile, I have played the main role in holding and caring for the responsibilities and responsibilities of health - care ministers. The subject is discussed in a number of field issues. I'll stick to the field where I'm supposed to do my job, and I'll use the commission I have for them in the way of talking with both sides of the table, both sides of the union and the state of the country, and I'm trying to get it into a deal because it's the only thing that gets us out of this position so satisfactory. I agree with what. A senator's opinion that the situation in the area of health care professionals is the best one to encourage all of us to negotiate. There's a senator here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u122	A respectable president. I'm not to blame. A minister for ease keeps this general approach to collective agreements that now appear to be of the people, to resort to extreme radical measures of overcrowdedness, that is my opinion. Yes, I think it is very important to realize that the serious state of the medical facility is, of course, an incentive for both parties to try to resolve. I asked the highest. Minister if he had provided some input to try to resolve this position in his field of health care, and the answer is that he has set up meetings. I may have expected more. What is there to do in health care to try to deal with the tremendous design problem that will be faced even more if these laws are stated. What are we going to do?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u123	A respectable president. That's right, the law is the absolute solution, the absolute emergency bread in my mind, the puzzle, the absolute puzzle. When we mention that I've been using myself for meetings, it's a form better than that there's someone standing and just shouting into the darkness. At meetings, things happen whether we like it better or worse if in some way they are prepared and wise. Meetings can be the source of good works, but some of them are also totally meaningless, as we probably all know in here. With regard to the designer problem, we have, i.e. The Ministry, cooperate with the surgeon general's office to try to make us some picture of what awaits us and try to be on the move to meet the major challenges facing the management of the Icelandic Health Organization in the next few years. I don't have any detailed information about the location of that work, but we're doing a project on these lands right now. A senator asks about.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u124	Mr. President. V.E.G. A health minister has not only the cat's soft feet but also the feet of the cat when he dances here about the halls and talks about what we all think, the situation is difficult and difficult, and all argues with worry. But that doesn't mean much for the highest. Ministers to come down here and carry their men to the table and say they expect the debates to be completed within the time frame given in the bill. What exactly does it require? Minister? Does he expect, for example, the health - class members of those 17 unions to settle down and swallow up their legal rights? Is that how he wants to resolve this dispute? Or the highest. A minister may, in the strength of his office and position, try to disqualify the commission so that it would offer more? Isn't that what is missing? There's never a couple dancing unless there's two people dancing. In this case, there is only one. I have to say, I think I'm the greatest. Ministers speak fairly humanly when he crosses the situation, but he forgets one thing. He forgets that he himself signed a declaration on January 5, where he promised that there would be more money in the system. V.E.G. A minister described it as a policy and signed it by prime minister and various health - care leaders, saying that the health system should live in a comparable framework for financial resources and in other parts of the North countries. It's missing quite a bit, and I'm asking the highest. Healthcare Minister: Is this not the time to fulfill the big words, stop acting humanly, but do what he said on January 5? And to remember that, I'm going to leave this for him here. [[A senator leaves a piece of paper in a necklace.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u125	A respectable president. Listening to what is bad is a joy at the second time. A senator talks about his favorite animal, which is the cat with softness and footwork - lets go. A senator finishes his speech in peace - softness and footwork, and so does his tail. [[Up front.]] I do know, however, that there is. A senator can more liken me to shame than ever a cat and would expect that illustration to be used. I agree with what. A senator in that it takes two men to negotiate, and it is quite boarded that when the last meeting ends that the gap breaks down ahead of them, we'll be determined how long we're going to make this work without doing anything. I'm describing my position here that I'm not going to live with the same situation anymore. I'm gonna take my stand for patients in this dispute that I think is about enough to suffer for two months. In the same way, medical staff have had to cope with a totally unacceptable situation, and that is the question that is also to be discussed. And when you discuss this statement that I'm well aware of, I'm amazed. A senator to read it all, and he also expects him to know about the current job, including the work he is doing. so that we have the same understanding of the sizes below when comparing ourselves with other nations. That understanding is not one; it is the same everywhere. That's a long way from doing it. And because of that, it is claimed that there is a lack of it compared to the rest of the North countries, what has been the cause. A senator in that? What statistics do we have? What statistics do we have? A senator saw an increase in the salary rate by 23% at the end of 2013? [[The president calls.]] It's just bullshit. That's not true.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u126	Mr. President. The only thing that was right in the talk was the highest. Ministers were the last words. It is true that negotiations by expert physicians may not have been 23% because they were higher if you accept the compensation. I agree completely with the highest. Ministers on how we need to take care of patients and I like him with patients. Therefore, I stand by means of a health system built up, making it possible for patients to enjoy the best care, care, and best staff. What's the big deal? A minister would do this to resolve the issue? In his earlier speech, he said that he was afraid that the market law would ensure that the votes of the legs, leave jobs, and go to the other northern countries, exactly the same logic as the highest power. The minister already had the medical issue, and it was released to keep the doctors at home. [[The president calls.]] Why should we not keep the nurses at home? [[The president calls.]] And why isn't the money that was promised here? [[The president calls.]] Maybe they all went to the doctors?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u127	A respectable president. Why didn't the money here come? Because we are still working on it so as to contribute this intelligently. I like it when it rains. A senator declares that he intends to accompany patients in the discussion that we are working on. [[Up front.]] I described my concern for the future effects of this decision, but I also described it as the risk I would rather take from the uncertainty that led to that decision. Rather, I prefer to put patients in a safe haven and then take over this future risk for a long time. [[Up front.]] Yes, of course, like a dog. A senator knows enough of our might, obviously. It doesn't have to freeze me. This is what I'd like to say about the expert agreements: In the past. A Last Government senator was chosen not to negotiate with specialists but to weigh the cost from 29% to 42% for patients instead, so the experts were allowed to dose their own pay themselves. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u128	So the strike is my fault?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u129	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u130	V.E.G. President. There's been a series of questions that have been asked, now at the latest. A health minister who would like to hear what I'm going to say. He hasn't only asked questions. He's also made statements. The first thing I stop to do is that he intends to speak for patients in this dispute. Then I'll say, "With whom?" Against the highest. Secretary of finance? Where is the reason why this controversy has entered the foretold knot? I'd like to start by saying a few words about the strike trial and the story of these cases because I'm very worried that I'm being undermined by the strike rights, which is a security license to pay in a democracies society. This is a fourth time during this terms, only halfway discussed treaties. There's been a review. In one case, there was an overwork ban on the ferry Navy workers. It's a much bigger and more serious matter here. It is not for the first time that law is placed on the following groups. Looking back in 1990 in the national agreements, treaties were passed and resolved. It was very controversial. Both were the laws that were then highly controversial, and the taken treaties were also controversial. I was in the circle of the events that left behind a great wound within a staffed employee because there was conflict and conflict. And while this dispute is not comparable to what happened then, and it might have many words, it is comparable in one respect. It is similar in that it is a tremendous blow to the people who have faced a struggle and strike at a third month without pay and who look up at their workplace in trouble. No one is fighting without a struggle inside him. It's a tremendous strain on people. The cutting off of the strike rights is very severe, making it very serious. I'm going to get to the end of my speech, which is now not in length, I'm going to have more than 11 minutes. But I have to say, I think the basis for solving this argument is to define it correctly. Ministers in the government have said that they hoped that the outcome would come from treaties. I say, there's no hope for that, no if there's not a fundamental change in the policy. And what is it? There are regulations set up in collective labour agreements between the European Union and the National Union of Iceland, a red bar to bind the labour market and the government to another degree. That's the problem. Somehow this knot needs to be cut. First, I say: There is an immoral law in these contracts. It is immoral to bind the public sector and the authority of the State in this way. From a moral point of view, the government is not bound. She can appreciate what this could mean. It's a practicality and practitioner, but morally I don't think it's bound. But what makes it reasonable to believe that the public market will determine the ideals within the public sector? As far as I understand it, three lines of reasoning are presented: First, the public sector is said not to be part of the sort of labour market. I'm not putting these words into the government at all, I'm referring to a general discussion that you often hear, and even that the public sector is involved in another part of your work. So to answer, it's fallacy, it just doesn't make sense. There are shopmakers and store clerks and people who work on tire shops and in various service sectors that we need just as much as those working in hospitals, in schools, we all need one another. We would make one common working market in the community where we need one another, so that argument doesn't work. Then there is another argument. It is this: If we are going to ensure full employment in the country, we must not overdo companies by forcing them to pay more than their actual abilities. Those who sit at the table of professional drivers at the Business Association have their fingers on their pulse and understand these facts best. This is often the case. But then I say, Is it right to let those who are in charge of companies who are primarily driven by economic hope direct their pay points in the country? We have recently heard how fishing companies have been paying their owners much money but have then held a sassy stand against the salary demands of the public. As far as I'm concerned, there should not be self-employers who are then the most presumptuous in the country when it comes to the votes of others, they should not be in their hands to determine their pay points in Iceland's hospitals, so I don't think this argument works. Advertisers in the Work Programme were able to impose agreements with threats of solidarity during strike operations and a very good compromise. It hasn't always worked. There have not always been rigid demands on the pay market, and people in that market have failed to achieve the results they would like to have so that the level of pay that is guaranteed cannot be some guide in the hospital or in the classrooms of the country or in other services. Third, refer to what happens in the North. They say: In the North, people try to design a system that is thus designed to be the first place in the public market and then come the official sector, it follows. But then I say two things: First of all, there is no one about the Norwegian systems, although in many places there are efforts to create such a frame. But second, we do not compare our pay environment with what happens in the North countries in that a consistent taxation is less likely to reflect the reality of society's pay layer than that in the North countries. The pay grade, especially in the public market, is much lower than the reality of the pay layer. Therefore, it is wrong to bind the public market to the agreement on this low pay scale. Then, in this comparison, there is one final point. The type of remuneration we are creating is being dealt with. Are we going to live in a tax system where hospital staff, teachers, nurses, radiologists, and other professions live at a similar rate, or are we going to negotiate for a minimum wage and then have an individual salary above? I ask: Do people of Iceland who are active in the general market want to live as teachers of their children or as nurses at the health center of the country's pay centres, which are based on decision-making? A pay system based on an individual salary guarantees and supports the authority of directors who then make such decisions in their hands. If we do not guarantee that our pay system is in any way compatible with our ideas and those who work in the system of justice, we are in a bad way. Finally, with the strike. It has been said that forced labor is a way of doing things, but the pressure is that people decide to do their jobs, do their jobs without pay. Let's never forget it. I've never claimed that once people sit by a bargain table, with a state, a rural, or a public market, it's normal for them to get on with all the demands immediately. No. They try to find some reasonable solutions, listen to reasons, etc. On the other hand, if people are so offended that they do not want to accept the benefits they have, or they have the possibility of working without pay, not forgetting; without pay. And the length of strike and support for such operations is a measure of this security device, that once people have been in a strike as long as they're testifying now, it's a clear message from the people, and I'm talking about all of us, I'm talking about funding. The people say, " No, we are not ready to work on the basis of the proposed work. ' Then we have to take it seriously. To tell the media from the Council of Control that people are hoping to get together, etc. - Of course, there is no hope for that, except for a fundamental change. I think we need to get out of the straitjacket that was made on the public market and I believe that there's no moral reason to look at her, that men aren't forced in that way. I don't think that's in harmony with national intention either. While some individuals in the leading labor unions and the company of industry have been able to get together on such pre-aggression, it is not in accordance with national willingness in Iceland, it is not, I allow myself to claim it. Therefore, the government is not supposed to be morally bound by the pressures the market is trying to impose on it. I feel that these things need to be realistic because we will never resolve these issues. We will not solve it with violence, for the law is natural monovalent violence of the State. We will not resolve the issue, whoever comes to the solution, unless we understand its nature and why it is running in the bigotry that actually shows, unfortunately. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u131	Mr. President. First-class health systems continue to be compromised, and that is unnecessary. Why do I say stop? If laws are passed according to this government bill on the strike of health care professionals after they have tented everything and strike, they are more likely to leave the country. Why and how? Governments have had to contend with health - care professionals and doctors during the winter, and they know all of these things. They know what's going on with health care professionals. It is known that the specialists are the demoral system of the medical system, but they also know that it is supported, supportive, and neurological by nurses, radiologists, and other health groups as described. These factors are vital if we are to have a first - class health system. They're trying to say here that the bill is needed because otherwise there's a crisis in the country's hospitals. Yes, there is a medical crisis. But there are two ways to resolve this crisis. Another way that is very short, very short, and very short of a solution is to agree with the bill that the government has proposed to impose laws on strikes. There will probably not be many who quit immediately, but there is a danger that many will resign, that is, the danger and the ultimate. A health minister will admit yes, that is the danger. Then we no longer have a first - grade health system, but many of these nurses and other health care professionals who are now going to set laws or take up other jobs in the country. This does not seem to be a real solution. On the other hand, what you can do, the other way that is both short and long - term, is to increase your salary, your priorities for taxes. The government did a fine job by setting the priorities of some 4 billion to the doctors, the experts, in January. True, there were strikes, and court lists may not have been wise, but eventually the government came to their senses. A contract with doctors, cost 4 billion, and the country have said in a very decisive way that they want to set their money aside to the health system, to be decisive, to 90%, whether they are in the forward or independent category, whether they are in the U.S.A. No matter how old, regardless of the economy, regardless of education, agricultural and marine eco-efficiency, or the ideal health minister. It's independent, all the people want first-class health priorities. But if we agree to this bill, we have the highest bill. A health minister agreed that we could endanger our health care system. The other way is that governments, of course, who have the authority to do that, prefer the local tax dollars, and pay nursing staff and other health care professionals who are now working on a higher salary, work better by its demands, comply with the demands that they want to be here on land. This could cost us 4 billion. There were 4 billion doctors, 800 standards, it could cost us a lot more than 4 billion for nurses who are twice as many, though the same amount. There is no doubt in my mind that the people of the country are willing to set their taxes there. And why not? Can't we afford this? Yes, we can afford this. Money is at a low level of 3.4 billion. According to early posts and two days of delinquency, the rate of growth as soon as it's passed through after one year is down by 7 billion. We can afford this. We can afford to prioritize first-class health taxes by doing better with the parties and increasing the pay of health care professionals so that they want to be here. If this is so clear, why do we have this matter at the council today? There's two things I can think of. Actually, it is such a better solution to prioritate tax taxes to the health system, which all the people of the country want and are short-term and long-term, to help patients immediately who receive their medical care, and to address the health risks immediately and solve the long-term problem so that we do not lose our healthcare providers instead of setting these laws that just drive us down to a different health level. That's a real danger. It's not 100% certain, but there's a chance. Why are we here with this bill? Then you ask yourself, " Is this just a neglect or can't people see it? ' Yes, they see this, the health minister nods and says, "There's a risk of this, etc. Is this something? No, I can't see that. Could it be that humans are creating a position? We're just gonna put laws on a strike. Thatcher did so, she took a position, said: it's no way, you don't break me backwards, it's just like this. Maybe. Maybe that's it. But then people are creating that position and paying for it by jeopardizing a major health - care system. Are people conscious of trying to damage the Icelandic health system or to undermine it in order to make personalization easier? It's like Noam Chomsky says it's a persistent theme when they want to privatize some government service, a permanent theme, everywhere in the world, that it's digging in the service sector, in this case of health care, that the justification for the private industry comes. That may be one reason. It's a bit of a dirty game. People are playing with patients, and then people are playing with the staff who have dedicated their lives to caring for others. That would be a very ugly game. This is the kind of thing that'll come to my head and go through the minds of the policy of this government, but let's see what the government groups said before elections. The party said, with President's permission: The main value of health care is that there is an improvement in the quality of the human resources and the quality of the health professions and thus reduces the elimination within the class. I couldn't say it better myself. What's going on? Minister on this? It's just the thing, isn't it? The prerequisite taxes where the people want the way you promised in the first-class health system and its main component is the staff. What did the Independence Party say? We can go through the whole package. A decision made by the FREE Committee for the National Conference states that changes in priorities regarding funding will be emphasized by improving the work environment and the quality of the health professions. This will penetrate the National Policy Declaration. It states: The suicide party is going to ensure the safety and well - being of the people of the country by ensuring tax first on the urgent and urgent tasks. Safe health care is mentioned there first. It's all there. If you just follow your own course, this is a table. Another factor in considering the health - care committee is: ◯ It should be guided by the fact that our health care providers are the real value of the health sector. It is clear that a health - care professional strike is not required. We can afford to go another way, the people of the country want to go another way. The government groups have promised to go another way, before elections. It is clear that this puts a first-class health system at risk, and it is quite clear that the first-class health system is not the priority of this government. The government groups beat their hearts and say that under the laws, they raised the Land Hospital by a billion. This is true, but it was still 3 billion short, according to the officials of all health institutions in the country, in order to render needed service according to their own claims. We know this information, have it reported in the process of changing proposals to the budget. They all answered, that was perfectly clear. The crown does not buy what she did, so even if they speak in a dollar, they don't have more money on a dollar, they just don't buy the same money now, they all know. The crowns aren't the main thing. The key is: Do these crowns buy enough to provide quality health care? It is not the priorities of this government. That's Cypress.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u132	President. I thank the senator for his speech. I wanted to ask him. I think it's a little strange that these laws put bans on two different societies. They know, as if everyone is unlikely, if e.g. Nurses try to run through courts forbid their strike, that the Fég Nurses perform this case. So I would like to ask the senator if he doesn't think it's strange that there are two basics instead of just one thing about setting a ban on a strike because it's a rather different group. BHM is an alliance and, in fact, is an alliance of many different partners. Although the symphony band is very important, it is hardly about national interest to forbid its members to have a strike. I find everything around these laws very strange and really unprecedented. I wanted to ask the senator if he shared my concerns about putting such a large network over different groups of people on this law. I'm going out of time to ask him some other questions next time, but I'd love to hear his attitude toward these friends.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u133	Yeah, that's exactly what this is all about. When a person is justified in taking away his right to strike, especially that his rights are there, but when people are camping and in action, the right to intervene in an excessive state is necessary. The same is true of health professionals and symphony. I mean, it's boarding. Trying to have the only justification for all of this party doesn't work out. This is part of what I mentioned earlier, that this is a bad bill. They are unjustly justified, and this is irresponsible. In terms of their misdeeds, it is just an attempt to bring all of us together. I have also been advised of the possible violation of the constitution in this case. The management style of suggesting that a court order which will be made completely clear might be a violation of the Constitution itself if it is taken too far to tell what arbitrarily arbitrarily arbitrarily arbitrarily arbitrarily obligatory decision can be given to those who are told about the state, so that they must be very careful when making this declaration. Then the procedure is completely framed into the same frame and is currently offered to health care professionals, to share parties. This is my first offer. Then we'll try something to argue about it at the council. Then you just keep going. I can't believe this government will give up anything unless there's enough pressure within the council. I encourage Congress to do everything we can. I'll just keep on doing it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u134	President. It is the very law of making that I feel is almost overcrowded, and it is very difficult to accept the fact that I am going through the council. In fact, it is being ensured by a date, e.g. Like doctors and teachers, nurses will not be able to obtain compensation. This is so shameful that you don't really have any words to describe how surprised you are about what this government thinks it will get away with. I wanted to ask you what. A senator whether he sees or understands how the government intends to create a safer and better health system when many are being taken away, not just by the health system, the interest in education, and the ability to do so by this law. I would like to ask the senator if he had noticed whether any other creative solution has been made to this issue, e.g. whether there are very strong suggestions or proposals to reduce loans from the LIN if pay cannot be increased. Has there been anything like that on the tables? You see, I haven't noticed but what. A senator is very attentive and may have noticed something I have missed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u135	No, I haven't noticed. Another: The management board set out with the workers of the labour market on a trip in the Northlands and wrote a report on the Norwegian framework for the success of collective agreements, called the Norse Way. I've been through this a few times here at the highest. Secretary of finance. I've tried to pull it out of the Minister, but this is still the starting room. I haven't been able to pull out of the minister's identity. It's about to give someone one person a chance now or some advice, advice, or something like that. That's all. That was two years ago. That's for sure. A minister himself has said that our work stabilities are involved. However, it is not priority to create a frame around the successful structure of collective agreements that would have prevented us from doing this position right now. There's one thing. Everywhere you look, it's not your priority to put a first-class health frame around here. That makes me very sad. It's two years to the election. It's a year and a half before you go into a campaign. There's been a lot of off-limits coming up, studies on the waiting list, patients on the waiting list. I don't know if we still have a first-class health system, but we had it when this government started. To keep it, money could be set in first place. We built it when we were a much poorer nation. We can afford it today. There's room. There was room for money last time. This government does not establish such priorities. It's short in elections, and when it comes to election elections, and we don't have a first-class health system anymore in the event of an election -- that's done by the calculus, we've been measuring up all the green standards of international standards that the surgeon told me when I talked to him about Christmas - it's the current government's teaching. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u136	Madam President. The bill presented above is discussed at the council with variations because the government felt unavoidable to respond to the situation that has come up, as a result of long-term strikes in BHM alone, and as a result of the condition that nurses have had during the past few days, although they have not lasted as long in time as we are now at the tenth week's strike of BHM. A discussion with both of these groups has been held, not only since the beginning of the strikes, but a little longer, and sadly, it has not yet been possible to get a conclusion in the discussions both sides can accept. However, it is not true that many of the discussions have been presented today, that it is because the government's commission was nothing, that it was in order to starve our interviewers to the conclusion, or that there was never any agreement on the part of the State. It's all wrong. There is no secret, however, that for the sake of the State, conversations such as those discussed here are considered to be in line with what is practical at one time, and what is generally taking place in human affairs generally is considered secondary, and in other respects, it is considered to be counterargument in the general context of the state's budget. Although this bill is not intended to end the negotiations, I am referring to the fact that it is arranged in the bill that the discussion of the party continues, but, first of all, it is essential to prevent the consequences of the strike, that is the main point of this matter, I intend to defend several words in the position of conversation. I've learned that they've been a major element in many of today's speeches. It may be the first thing to say that this government cannot negotiate agreements. However, it is not past the beginning of this year that this government's labour agreements with the medical government were made, and then you can look to the last year when the government dealt with the same classes as this, i.e. BHM, as well as agreements with other trade unions, was long criticized by both part of the government and part of the labour market officials for the extent of the individual contracts under which the government was under. More often than not, I've had to come up here and defend that conclusion from different angles, but I mention these examples because they're recent and they're evidence that the government has recently led to decision-making with government officials. In these specific matters here, it is particularly difficult to find that the organisations who are expected publicly to ask that there will not only be agreements on dress and grooming that are like what is going on in general at this time at the labour market. It is made clear, last interview today, that there is no way to agree to a dresser therapy similar to what was agreed on in the public market. It's a declared course. [[Up front.]] When it escapes, which says that the requirement is beyond what is being negotiated at present, it is referred to as a long period of failure for individual groups in the community or even for the whole classes to other classes. For example, in the case of nurses, they consider themselves to be 143/4,25% followed by another university graduate in the country's polls. However, it is a relative dose since the last bargain was made to this group. I've had the approach to view the price of both parties as being always responsible for contracts when they're made. This is a reference to failure and evolution, which I have full respect for when members disagree, which has taken place over a very long period of time. In fact, the requirement for this failure is now to be corrected in one contract. That's a huge problem. It's a requirement that's very difficult to grant, no matter who's in the government at any given time. It sees who sees that if, for example, a contract with nurses is to be involved in securing comparable increases to them and the general agreement is being made, whether there is a reference to the general market or to what is going on at BHM, and in the relationship it is talking about raisings in a relatively short period of time that are, I have often said somewhere between 15◯20% without me going to have accurate numbers, we're talking about increases somewhere in the interval, the elevations that are far beyond those of any other neighboring nation who remembered the agreement, the requirement is that when the deal is due to improve the failures that I've been brought up to the point, 14 775%. [[For example, don't cure.]] This is to be fixed in this contract. This is me picking here to show how high the bow is and how unfair it is to promote it in general, whether inside this room or in general discussion about this position, that the state is not willing to resolve matters and the government commission has no authority. It's off and on. I'm not going to go further into trying to describe a lesser view of the demands of these groups. I'm only generally pointing out that it is required of both at the same time; correction of the discrimination that has taken place over a long time; and during that period, a lot of contracts have been made that I feel that men are describing themselves as irresponsible, and at the same time they were asking for raises, which I do not comment on, and it is normal to negotiate, as I think the state has offered such agreements. Even though it is a very challenging task to meet in these extreme situations, I still intend to state that there is a way out, there is an agreement. However, the agreement must be within the framework of which we are generalized by the other agreements that the State can make and can make and negotiate on the public market, and otherwise it could be looked to as to the importance of the government can bring into the issues that are particularly relevant. [[For example, don't cure.]] For example, one of the main complaints in this cycle is how much some institutions have been cut down. It is only a little over two years since nurses broke up with a number of resignations, but as you may remember, nurses are in the value of collective agreements. So it was mass resolutions, but in force with the agreement, it was less than two years old. Why did this situation arise? This situation arose because the nurses, especially at the Land Hospital, had been so close to those institutions that all their environments were really upset despite the fact that they were still paid under a collective contract. The shifts had changed, the shifts had been turned upside down, everything had been transferred to the day - to - day work, and the work environment had been squeezed in other ways. It's not recent. It's a problem that's been building up over a long time. So I hear in the discussion that the government didn't want to show any color and that it didn't do anything about it. Yet, for example, because of the attention of health - care minister, we have set priorities for increased funding to the Land Hospital so that we have never put more money in that hospital than we have now, and with a special addition we have the financial bill for the past two years placed injected billions of dollars to the Land Hospital in accordance with the greater allowance we have had in the federal budget. Now that we have proclaimed an invitation for construction at the Land Hospital, and if you look at the figures and look at them fairly, you can't make any mistake. Large amounts of money to the medical sector have been set aside. But there's still enough left, that's right. This structure is still going to continue. There will be a need to place extra money in health institutions in the country, and it will also need to place extra funds in health care and larger health institutions in the capital area and in the area around it. It is wrong, however, that humans have not wanted to do anything and will not do anything about it. We simply need to unite in the process of taking one step at a time and one after the other in the same direction, i.e. gradually this happens with a constant normal haemoglobin. This cannot be solved in one collective contract in one year to the long future, it won't happen that way. I'm also going to express my opinion that the methodology we've built up over the past few years is completely gone to the skin, that it is every club for itself to go out and the South and the state have all these parties to talk to. It doesn't make sense. Like what? paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson has entered, and I have expressed my willingness to go to that task many times. It may seem that it has not gone fast enough, but the State cannot pressure or force a decision to do so. The labour market must be included. And it's time for real men to take over it. Just a minute on the subject. This issue is primarily about preventing the impact of the strike. There's no law against making a deal. It is decided here that negotiations will continue until the next month's match, and I'm going to allow myself to be optimistic about the decision to be made by the health professionals and anyone under it. Then only about that point. In particular, the report shows that it is because people share these actions as a range of values of the bill as broad as shown in the Law as in explanations, i.e. When you want to negotiate together and perform operations, it is normal for a bill such as this to react in a comparable way. On the matter of the procedure, there are differing views on the matter. I assume that a committee will carefully review this factor. I do not agree, however, with what has been stated here that this has gone very seriously into the Constitution, the right to use the strike weapon or the freedom of the agreement. I don't agree with that. I believe building the Law in this way is well justified. I'm not saying that all other options are hopeless, but I think they're justified, and here we assume that a second arm in the trident will come at the order of the execution and he'll come to the conclusion of both the content and the length of the contracts. Here we simply have a bill that is necessary to contribute to the effect of the strike, as we all know they are devastating in the health system and in so many other parts of the community. [[The president calls.]] It is simply not possible to see that people are not getting the necessary care even though they have missed out on collective agreements. [[The president calls.]] Nor can it be said in the discussion that the solution is simply that the State meets its demands. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u137	A respectable president. V.E.G. One minister said that it was unfair to say that the State did not want to solve the situation and that he did not want to solve it during the strike. I don't quite understand a word. Ministers because he has stood here as well as prime minister and has told us at the Council that they have done nothing because they have been waiting for the general market. Then the public market gives its conclusion at the beginning of the last week or within the last ten days, and that is when people act and legalize. What was offered after the conclusion of the public market in their dispute? What did the State do after that dispute ended and what was being offered in this dispute, i.e. BHM and nurses? You see, it is not unreasonable to say that if you hear only words from the State, it was not unreasonable to say that it was waiting. A minister here who consistently dismissed the case over and over again said that this matter was not in their hands but had to wait for the general market. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u138	Madam President. A long time ago it has been said that there was a prerogative before treaties took place in the public market. There was an offer. Since the negotiation, the state has raised its offer, that is, and in part, changes were made after the general market reached its conclusion. But it is not to offer solely and precisely what is common in the general market. However, in many ways the Kingdom is being met in a completely different and different way. There are a few things to be asked for in these dress interviews that are not relevant to general markets, e.g. Work primarily with only a significant increase in the lowest salary and mild increase in remuneration above. There's just no point in this deal. However, for the overall population it is important that the general market does not lead to any other methodology. I call out that we take a little deeper and more serious discussion about the job market and the fight than the one I've felt about today that just goes on and on that if the state doesn't respond to demands that are not up to it, then they're not doing what's going on. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u139	A respectable president. We've been asking for this discussion for now for two months, and we're in it at any time, deep and intense discussion about the fight and the workforce, but the government has not been ready for it, and it has not been ready for us. Since May 19, my team has been waiting for a verbal report from the Prime Minister for the job market situation. She hasn't made it. When I'm at the highest. The minister gets criticism from the government, and he starts calling for a deep and thorough discussion on the matter. Well, they've been waiting for her here, so I'm waiting for the highest. A minister to show due respect that we are asking him questions even if they are unpleasant. A respectable president. I'd like to say something, and it's the highest. A minister noted that they had made a success of a contract with the doctors and that they had reached a good decision. The doctors received reports of a 20% raise plus some pots, so some got more than that. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Why is it not expected in this bill that the period again for the contract will be taken into consideration by a judicial committee? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u140	Madam President. There is always an assessment of exactly which reference period is to be watched, and I think that there's quite a short argument in this case why this is set up. But here people would like to compare the development of doctors with that of other classes, so they can refer to a period of time and ask: What time period is it reasonable to use as a reference? Should we take a ten - year period and compare the development of breast - feeding doctors with the development of nursing nurses or other employees? So, before we know the conclusions, can we agree that a doctor's breast development is that they have not received anything beyond what nurses have received, it is unfair for nurses to obtain the ideals now so that they overtake doctors? [[Up front.]] Of what should we agree? So should we agree that the election developed in a comparable way over the last ten years, or should we assume that someone else has taken over the others, or must we use some shorter period of time? I say, let's just look at this ten-year period, let's see. I think it's quite surprising what that film looks like in spite of the medical contracts.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u141	Madam President. Sounds like the highest. The secretary of finance to be saying, and it comes to this bill, I think it is very clear in this bill, that any rise in health care professionals and others in strikes now should be accepted for what is happening in general now, not what has happened with the doctors, so that other health professionals who are in a strike should not be able to have the same degree as health workers who were having a strike earlier in the winter and that the government has made a deal with them. Am I right to the highest? A minister does not want health care professionals to put their taxes first in health matters, even if the Independence Party meeting says that tax returns should be placed first on important and urgent health care projects and even to guide health care professionals to the fact that health care professionals are the real value of the health - care system?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u142	Madam President. I believe that in this regard, I have repeatedly demonstrated that we have just set our priorities for the medical system. There is no group of cases that have got beyond that into the established Kingdom system that has flowed to the health system, which runs at billions. One of the budget bill's added 3 billion just to Land Hospital, just in there. If you follow the methodology to raise some groups above others, you end up at such a game as you can go to the Tivolian, Copenhagen, where a worm comes out of a hole, you go on a hammer, you hit it, and it comes out somewhere else, and the game goes on until the time is over, except that in this game we're living here, it just doesn't come out at any time. You'll never see the last worm in the head. This is the methodology in the Icelandic labour market, it's the model. There's an endless race to get more than the next one, and then the game will go on as the next bargain expires. [[The president calls.]] You need to get out of this into the Scandinavian model, where you take a professional discussion about what the scope really is, and I think we are. A senator would agree.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u143	Madam President. Yeah. At the top. Ministers agree exactly on this, but this frame is not available right now. There might have been a higher priority in the government, really, I haven't heard any argument from the Minister that it couldn't have been done. I've been asking for an explanation of what kind of ban has been going on, etc. to achieve what was said at the beginning of the termst season, but I haven't had it yet. I may request a written answer from a minister to get what really has been done, but it has not been done, and the frame is not there. It was made up with doctors, brilliant, premeditated in a first-class health system, in the staff. Why is it the highest? A ministerial servant is not prepared to do so again now with the medical staff in the current strike? If we don't, we're putting the first-class health system at risk and the decisive will of the country is that we shouldn't.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u144	Madam President. Yes, we are prepared to do that, to negotiate with nurses who show that their jobs are highly valued, they are important, and they are respected for their activities in the health sector, such as for other health care services, and we do so both by setting aside reasonable agreements, but there is always some external limit to how far you can go and by other health care practices in the budget. I've traced it here today. Emphasis is to build new hospitals, huge structures there. But also by strengthening other health - care systems, such as by strengthening patients' health care as their first stop, and this list is really inexplicable. Unfortunately, this project will never be completed here at the council, it will never be finished. This is one of the main tasks of all conventions and our neighbors, that is, of continuing to build up in our health system.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u145	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the speech. What I want to ask the highest. Secretary of state, I asked the highest. A health minister before, in terms of the premise that the BHM's claim is about buying and choosing, but it has also been about other factors. It has put first the improvement in health care and the highest. A health minister answered that there was something in preparation for the budget. It has also been about the status of Icelandic students and the system modification of that town, so we're moving more into the North American system in this respect. V.E.G. A financial minister here speaks extensively about the need for us to reexamine the labour market model, that we need to look to the northern countries. All right. So, then, do we not have to do this in the context of other matters, both in the construction of health care and in order to create a change in the loan system? I'd like to ask the highest. " Have governments been prepared to put such things on the table in these negotiations? ' Well, then I'm not asking about a couple of crowns in my salary, I'm asking about playing cards to pay for these contracts.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u146	Madam President. The answer to that question is yes. We have described the willingness to make adjustments in the payment of student loans, and we have repeatedly offered a conversation about it. This has been far less important than other factors. It has been more relevant in BHM case that education is paid for pay and that there are systematic changes to demonstrate this. Perhaps it is the very essence of a large conflict between plans to show it in action but at the same time not so far as a degree of degree as a matter of importance but more skill and ability, and it is a bit complicated. In nurses, however, this point has been less emphasised, i.e. The remuneration rate of student loans, but more emphasis on the failure to pay against another university student whom I left behind. [[The president calls.]] It is, in fact, the basic requirement for getting the same elevations as the others, and then correcting the 143/425%, and it seems to me that I have to do something in this contract.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u147	Madam President. It's been put on the table. I would like to reiterate the question of what has been placed on the table regarding the injection of health care. Is there tangible suggestions and not just a general word that this will be considered in financial terms? Then I'd like to ask the highest. A minister a little further into what was asked earlier regarding the time frame of the procedure. The report on the bill has been presented here as stating a range of conditions for the release of collective agreements, which should therefore be based on May 1. But why not attend the annual conventions and agreements that the government has been making since then? Then, of course, we are referring to the medical contracts that would likely meet the requirement that there be a conflict between different classes as the highest class. Minister has mentioned. Would it not be reasonable to change this date to the council?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u148	Madam President. I have to say, I don't think it's a good idea if some chicken negotiations with individual classes begin to revolve around contributions to institutions in the coming budgets or in the coming years. However, it is probably best to inform us about our plans and priorities in the area under which each area is concerned, but we can't go into two budgets, where we agree on the establishment of a collective agreement to resolve a conflict and then pass through a discussion of the final donations or whether the government should provide financial proposals based on the results of the collective agreements on contributions to individual institutions. Of course, we must agree that it cannot work, but part of the conversation has been answering the question of how to do it because of the tremendous cuts that were here in the years after the collapse to individual institutions. It's no secret. The major cuts in the national system are part of the problem we are dealing with in these discussions. In terms of the procedure, I'm impressed. A senator to cross Article three. There is nothing that prevents us from looking beyond the stage more accurately than from May 1, 2015. [[The president calls.]] I believe the wording is so clear that other agreements can be viewed well.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u149	A respectable president. I will not belittle the serious situation that has come up and the government is facing. V.E.G. A minister speaks of the Scandinavian model, and I think we all agree that there is a way of finding these matters. It does not happen that every generation that grows up at least once in a long primary school teacher's strike and then again in a high school teacher's strike, and in today's health - class situation, it is of course very serious. But then I wondered, " Why hasn't the government been working on these issues for the past two years? ' Would not time and money have been better spent in ensuring some kind of stable agreement at a workforce than in some kind of debt that everyone has forgotten? The money went to it. Would they not have been better spent on other more important tasks, such as maintaining a job market?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u150	Madam President. No, I think action due to the domestic debt problem was one of the most important solutions to this government and it went straight to work. She acted in harmony with what had been foretold, and this has already proved to be a big difference for the household. I'm going to describe a general wonder at the discussion here on how operations to assist the households, whether by measures designed to actually reduce the debt burden and thus to reduce the paying burden of the households or the tax reductions that are nothing more than measures to support people who are struggling to make ends meet, to reduce the burden of people with lower taxes and taxes. What are we discussing here, but how does it feel to bring up life in Iceland? What is it like to survive the human responsibilities? Isn't that what we're talking about here? But every time they discuss taxes and our policy of trying to reduce taxes and taxes, they say, "No, no, this cannot be done at all. " This is the wrong time, stupid emphasis. [[The president calls.]] It's amazing. And I have to say, the same is true of our housing procedures. To help people with their deliveries, that's a big deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u151	A respectable president. I didn't say a word about taxes or taxes. I was talking about the government's penalties. If they were so successful, why haven't they gone to any waves? Why is there war on the job market if it was an operation that everyone was so happy about and that made their homes so much better? That's what I was talking about. It was a bad procedure. I'm asking the highest. Again: Why have men not spent the two years trying to establish some calmness in the labour market and try to build up this Scandinavian model instead of the wormworm model. A minister said so well before?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u152	Madam President. This is primarily because the labour market has not been ready to arrive at that table. That's the main explanation, that's the main answer I can offer. But we've expressed a clear willingness to do so, it was determined to that in the reports published by the labour market partners, I refer to the report In leading contracts. I refer to all the things that have been presented there and then have been confirmed in our consultations on increased prosperity, so people have started speaking on this path, but when it comes to the task of entering it together in commitments, the work market has continued. The attitude may be primarily this: It's a good ideologies for the future, but before we go to this model, we just need to be corrected for ourselves first. All you have to do is set things straight for my class first. Then let's do this. Then the next one comes and says, "Yes, that's exactly what we recognize, and the failure must be corrected for our class too. " It's just these 15% or 20. It has to be fixed first, so let's do this. And then we're stuck in the same ride.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u153	Madam President. It was interesting to listen to a talk at the highest. Secretary of finance, when he pointed to the fact that there was never the right time to pay taxes. But I never seem to be the right time to increase the equation in society. I think it's more about the fact that there never seems to be a time to correct the interests of those who have low standards and classes that provide the basis for a good society, such as those of a caring group. The unions that have been involved in a strike have shown great patience and have played a very important role, nurses, veterinary surgeons, and other members under it. I think the talk is at the highest. The minister of finance is indiscriminate and how he actually speaks to people who have the right to fight for their rights and rights and freedom of society, which goes very well with the Convention of Human Rights. It is a sacred right in my mind that people can stand up for their rights and fight for benefits. I feel so impatient with governments and irritability. They don't have the guts to find any surfaces and make difficult agreements finished. Naturally, agreements between members of different classes vary greatly, each contract partner thinking about himself from his own terms. That's very normal. The general labour market is never compatible with a variety of sectors within the public sector. That's just the way it is. The way this case is set up here, they've got their throats full of shit. I felt that it was at the top of my speech. A health minister who has now made a rather quiet presentation and discussions about these matters. A discussion of a serious position in the dress code at the General Assembly has not been received and any information on the situation has been provided. This has always been referred to as a government negotiation board and should not be involved. This discussion has not been handled in any way. Then there is just a fist and a law against this dispute by putting it in a court reserved to the Supreme Court, but not the way both parties have the potential to come into action with an odd man. This is all for the government's sake, and there seems to be no understanding that the classes involved are not fighting for their terms in a long, hard strike in some void. Of course, this has cost these communities enormous sums of money from strike funds. The great solidarity that exists among people in this difficult task shows that people are serious and that they do not try to meet their demands in one way or another. I thought it was the highest, too. The minister of finance is very freely speaking about it, from the state, that the demands of those around him were so high and in reality unfair that there was no way of meeting them in any way that they would just get their bike off and who would get up and demand the same thing as it would be a vicious ring. Men who speak like that have just given up on the task of negotiating with the public sector. Of course, it is a task that every community must work on. Of course, this is not to be done at a critical moment, but at the end of the moment it must be a agreement between the public sector and the relevant trade unions, from the time the contract is signed until the contract is free. This needs to be a permanent project. I also worry about how much I can do. Secretary of finance and others within the government have spoken of the strike rights, that he has become a child of his time, and that his methodology and methodology need to be revised. When people talk like that in such delicate situations, it's dangerous. It is always possible to discuss negotiations with other circumstances and to review various factors in the light of the changed circumstances and all of that. Of course, both parties need to be fully involved in such discussions and not under pressure to be deeply involved in the strike and the state's efforts and to raise them to threats that the right to strike public workers has to be reviewed. I think it's very strange in the discussion these days that we're better off getting out of the crisis, finally. At Caslight this week, the negotiator spoke to Lee Buchheit promise that we as a nation could look forward to a better time. Of course, it is a joy to have arrived in that place after a very difficult year of collapse. So, then, is that not one of the priorities of how we divide this blessed national cake? I think so. Of course, we need to divide it in a way that allows for some righteousness. That's what people question. People compare themselves with others. It's this one-on-one in Iceland that has to be corrected. I have to say, I have not been impressed with the way the money manager has taken up this discussion. I think it's very unusual when he's threatened with growth growth in the past because of the threat of filing in the wake of collective contracts. I know we have to be careful and be careful that this is not a place for public opinion. When carers, low - paying classes, and various classes, which we know all about are too low on a job salary and education, they always come forward, waving the possibility that there will be a constant rise and that everything will turn upside down. Then there are the self-employed groups in the community that make their own income and pay, the death toll team, and no one else, whether the bank manager or anyone else, will turn them around. If so, it is only possible to make pay - whether in the financial system or in the large companies of the country. It's getting pretty quiet. The bank manager doesn't hear how worried he is. It's done behind the system and it's not going up. That's just the way it is. They view ordinary people who have to fight to make ends meet and justify their skiing over 300 yous. K. in monthly after many years of study, there are now more demands and agreements with similar classes in other countries. It would be easy to compare ourselves with what is going on in other parts of the north with the labour market. Sounds like the executives of the Association of Business. That's what they've been primarily talking about with their people, that we have to look to the Norwegian Labour market model. All right. Let's do it. So let's do it in all things. Let us do the same with regard to the purchases and benefits and how the welfare systems of our future are built up. Let's set our sights high and head that way. We can't go there if we're going on a trip that this right government is going on a full trip to lower taxes. I often feel like they're being talked to people like they're stupid. What does it mean to lower taxes? It means nothing more than that the public will have to pay much more of their own money to the welfare system, education, transportation, and all that is part of society's community business. That's all it means. Of course, there are groups who rejoice in paying taxes. It's the voters of these classes, the forward party and the Independence Party. More than no more material groups are eager to see the health - care system evolve towards greater personalizations, where they get in the system sooner by paying just for it than others who have to rely on public health care provided by the state have to go in a row and may just wait in line for it to happen to them, but those with money have the chance to buy ahead of them in the order. That's the system we've been warning about, as in the United States. Although she tried to swear it off, that government seems to be moving forward in that direction. But actions show the signs. There's no difference that everything is being turned upside down here and running into the right society where there's an inequities. It also means worse social growth, such as why. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, has mentioned and referred to research on the subject that long - term inequities in society are not good for the common economic growth of society in general. Therefore, the ambition of any community should be to try to minimize and build up a society in which people can be confident that there is good access to health and well - being systems in general and educational systems. My time is running out, it's going too fast. I have a complete understanding of the struggle of the people who are involved in a strike and now have to subject themselves to the law that will bind their hands forever. There's nothing in this bill for how long. I myself had a difficult seven - week strike in 1997 as a Western labor worker, and I well know what it is like to live with an unjust government like that at that time and unreasonable professional drivers who did all they could to break up the courage of people who were in a more difficult struggle but still stuck together.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u154	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for her speech. I felt that she was very impressed with the position that exists and is also the policy of government that has been here and is having the consequences of what we see today. It was interesting to me when it happened. A senator discussed what affects the inflation and causes instability in Icelandic and Icelandic economic society. You see, I've been, like, a what? A senator, wondering how it feels to hang around his neck and to be placed on the shoulders of the lowest of those with income, big women's classes, and public employees, to maintain economic stability here. At the same time, however, the government can decide to lift taxes from the highest incomes so that fishing costs can pay off tens of billions of dollars for profit, and it never talks about how it can affect inflation. So I've wondered what. A senator has found the economist book on the theory that these parties and the highest income groups are somehow outside the formula, i.e. They are out of the formula for the points of inflation stimulus. You see, I haven't found it, and I think maybe it's time we called for the government to show it to us because otherwise it's totally unremarkable, and they're just supposed to step forward and admit that this is their policy, i.e. that the loafing theory has a good life here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u155	Madam President. You often feel that they are on the side. A senator mentioned, who is such a self-employer, is never within this variable when it comes to being responsible for stability, and now everyone has to be reasonable and be responsible, otherwise it's all on this side and it's those low-paying groups, middle-temperatures and carers to blame. More often than not, it has also been true of teachers and other classes, who, of course, are extremely important to society. I like that it's becoming even more aware of these classes of people not to be asked to do this anymore. Of course, you don't want to lose anyone out of the country who would've wanted to be here and make an effort to benefit society. But thus it is only that with the indifference of the government to the ideals of these groups, certain groups are giving just such friendships. Then just go. And what are we going to do? So, what position have we become as a community if we are missing a lot of people from society, and what will people do with them? Who, then, should call when the emergency is in the hospital? What are we going to do? If people start to lose people on a large scale, do they have a plan of emergency? I'm not gonna be scaring people with it, but I think it's the reality that we need to think about, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u156	A respectable president. That's where I completely agree. Senator, I feel that there is a great lack of long - term attention to this matter. After the forward call for financial ministers, we've had a talk before. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon's idea of having to think about the patients, you wonder who will think about the patients who will be here next fall, next year, and the immediate future if such disagreements are dealt with, possibly in a way that may result in a decision to search elsewhere. Then we'll watch a very long, difficult situation. I don't think they're in this case looking at the big movie and it's gonna get us in the head, unfortunately. I'm afraid so. What I hate about this case is that men haven't charted this exact position yet, i.e. what can happen here. Nor has there been a plan on how to make up the tail that has already been due to these actions. I think it's the government's and must look at itself because her responsibility is very high why it's gotten so late and has been so drawn up. By saying we're waiting for the general markets, which were often said in this chair, we were saying, "Well, we're not offering anything, we're not doing anything because we're waiting for the public market. So they made this knowingly in a waiting position until the public market was together. So when that happens, I feel like it's been quite a short time before they just gave up and decided to go to law school. I'm sorry that tells me that there were never any serious talks going on.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u157	Madam President. Of course, there is concern that in fact, there have never been any major plans on these issues, such as the four - year national budget for which the council was proposed and discussed. It shows that if there is more money gain in public employees than 2%, it must be cut down. This is the message, and it's been for what the government's will was for the public sector. For patients, of course, we all agree that we want to keep patients in first place, and that is why we want such classes to be paid that reflect the great responsibilities of working in the health institutions of the country. I would like to draw attention to the fact that there should be some list of emergency care, a persistent financial list. It would be interesting to know if that list is active in such a situation or if it is missing. The government has now given up on the loss that the government has brought to a high level of 30 billion. There are now many ways to improve the common people in the country and in the health and other classes of 30 billion. But, of course, this is just a manifestation of this massive right policy, which is, in fact, breaking down the well - being society that we've been trying to build up here through the times, the left, and the socialism and the labor movement in the country, whether in the general or in the public sector and being crushed all down. [[The president calls.]] People must face the fact that the present government is not going to do anything to improve the terms of these people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u158	Madam President. BHM members have been on a strike for ten weeks, and nurses have been on a strike for about two weeks; their strike began on May 27. The events have indeed had a vast impact, the end of these professions very important jobs, and are absolutely clear that the strikes affect the lives of very many in the country and are serious, so it is important that governments work hard to solve them with a more proper solution but do not give up on the matter by bringing against the law as it is currently being done. The education of the professions is a worldwide pursuit. In this way, the Icelandic State as an employer is competing with other countries on the activities of the professions, both in BHM and in the community of nurses. Today I spoke to a nurse who went over with me about the situation in that class. First, she told me that over the next three years 900 nurses can quit because of age, but at the same time, only about 450 graduates. The problem in the class has also been because nurses are getting out of the class, improving their education, and training themselves away from their nurse. The nurse told me that each week she would receive a job offer from Norway. She had gone and had been for over two weeks and had received between 500 and 1,600 you. K. signed. She worked in a hospital where equipment was extremely good, got a free ride out, and stayed overnight, and the shifts were about seven and a half hours, or ten hours, and brought home just less than 600 hours. K. for this period. Here, however, the nurse's initial pay is just over 300 yards. K. and we'll see how this class is competitive. The nurse said to me: Norway alone could hire us all for work and others. She said that the legislation on the strike today is the beginning of some terrible medical system. She was very depressed, and I sensed the seriousness of the situation. In part, she told me that in the department where she worked, the strike would have no effect, there was no change because the school design was so bad for, the department was subversive, and was right for the security boundaries set by the state, security care, minimum care for patients, so the function was in the department for a strike, so that the strike was not affected. The picture the nurse drew is very serious, and it is very important that the government recognizes that there is not only the pay but also that the equipment needed to be in order to allow these sought - out classes all over the world to be in Iceland and to be the people who make good health systems what they are supposed to be at home. I think it's the best. The government can't figure it out. I felt that I had no understanding at all. Foreign Minister here earlier today, but also at the highest level. The financial and economic minister in his speech earlier, and that's certainly a concern. I want to read from an e-mail that the senators received that framed this position. In e-mail it says, by permission of the President: For ten years, representatives of these healthcare professionals' unions have noted that the flight of health care professionals to other countries is a threat to our ability to maintain the performance of our own health care systems. They flee because of the equipment and pay policy of the Icelandic government with health care professionals, and they do not come back. We are becoming a people who are primarily educated by superior health care professionals for other nations, nations who truly recognize and respect the abilities and knowledge of Icelandic health care professionals, and who pay the salary they can survive, ensuring that the equipment they can do it without causing themselves and their families irreversibly harm because of their abnormal stress, lack of equipment, high duty ratio, irregularness of duty, and large absence of home. Congress officials are then encouraged in this computer cable to declare willingness to work on health care structure, show that nurses and other health care professionals have reason to work in Iceland and work on solutions and structure in the system. I think there's a message we should take seriously but not run away from it by putting on law. It is a short-term solution that will have, if dead bodies occur, long-term side effects that are very bad. In a package with the bill we're discussing, there is a review of financial and economic sources, the office of public funds. It says, by permission of a president: As shown in the bill's report, the salary requirements of certain trade unions within the BHM and FIH have been significantly higher than those raised in the majority of the general labour market. In this case, the strike measures performed by these partners have resulted in economic damage and significant deterioration of public service such as the services in hospitals and clinics. The bill is avoiding the conditions that have existed over the last few weeks in the workforce. ◯ I feel that it is speaking in direct words, which have actually been said here on the basis of the fact that the law and bill came into the council, that these classes are not really right to strike. First, they had to wait for the general labour market to negotiate, and then when they arrived, the BHM or FIH must not be negotiated on the same page. Their requirements are irrelevant because the solution must be in line with what happens in the general labour market. Then, with the permission of the President, the review of the official financial office at the Ministry of Economics and Economics continues: It would seem that if you agreed to the pay requirements that have been met, it would have a major impact on the survival of a government fund that would be involved in the management of government funds or tax increases, as well as on which such contracts would likely have a negative effect on the making of collective labour agreements. That's the frame in there. I just think that if these classes get autopsies, these unions that work for the government, they're going to be here for tax increases or recessions in service, and God knows what. At the same time, it's the highest. Secretary of the budget to announce tax losses that will occur after the tax stability rate begins to go in here, from what I understand. Why do those in charge of taxes have any other impact on the economy than on the money paid by government employees? The highest. The president explained to me how it matters to me that the source of the crowns comes from the state box, whether they come through taxes or through the pay of state officials, and that's the difference, then, in how they affect the economy? This is also the highest message. Governments sent government employees or employees in BHM and nurses. At the time of the feast and the realization that she was in a bad place, a plan was set forward on April 1. It states plainly on page 18. 35: If the collective agreements made with government workers provide more than 2% compensation over inflation, the work will be reduced and the welfare system will be cut down. I felt that this was a cold greeting to government officials, who were in open agreements and who had stood with the nation in the great horrors and the great dive we saw here for economic collapse. Despite extensive surgery in the health system, these classes have survived and maintained their service, and now the threat is from the highest level. A government government of the State Department: If you get a bargain, we'll squeeze you even more. These are truly cold greetings, Madam President. That is the policy of this right government, of course but it must be fought against it. I'm told that the government's offer is $1 billion and 800 million. K. but the agreement with doctors, half the number of nurses, has cost 4 billion. When we face that fact, I understand very well the big women's class, nurses, that they cannot accept it. Of course, they compare themselves with agreements made by the State with other classes. Now the bill will go to committees, and the committee will review these numbers and the comparison and will try to determine if these laws are really necessary, because laws can only be taken by law if there is a need and a national economy. Madam President. As I said before, I'm concerned that these laws will solve some problems in a short period of time, but in time, they will be in order to achieve further damage to the health system when we would be more likely to make money in building it up.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u159	V.E.G. President. It is often referred to as a basic community in discussions about politics, and it is often viewed as a phrase. But society's foundation is not political peace, it's the support that sustains society. The most important is the health system. It is in our health system that we receive service when we get sick, where we get cures or bodies, where our children receive care, our parents, and ourselves, and that is the system we trust, and that gives us security. In this country, we're also so lucky that we get a first-class service from a great professional. There, working casts that are very aggressive at a loss, and giving the best service and the best security to patients is a highly religious and professional skill. These laws are now being passed saying that patients are being protected, but that is not the case. We in the United States are totally against this law, and why? Because we know that the health system will not be functioning until it is resolved, accepting the benefits inside the door, and how we bring our general affairs into it, and what resources we place in that system. It has been pointed out by a number of our conversations and e - mails since then that these two Icelandic health institutions will have a very difficult time dealing with these legislation. That is where summer vacations have begun, and that is often a time of overtime. It will be very difficult to get people to work overtime when their rights are broken. There's a shortage of people in these classes, such as cogs. paritaprevir For example, a daughter of Oddný Harðardóttir was well - versed in his talk, and there is a shortage of money to fill in the extra staff that needs to be filled with on account of the position. We'd like to argue that there is an even greater threat of the system attacking it by this legislation. This is also the self - righteous government of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunougson. One of the roots is beginning 2014 at the highest level. Kristján Þór Júlíusson's health minister made a deal with an independent expert specialist. There was a 30% increase to the group that is not working for the government but who are independent, and the contracts are insured, so twice a year they automatically rise. It's a bargain that most people would like to live with, I think. As a result, of course, the government's desperate struggle for the doctors, which we remember during a unprecedented strike in the late autumn, ended with a bargain at the beginning of 2015. They were signed when major contracts were about to begin in the labour market. There was a problem with the government. It is difficult to control the economy and to control political affairs through such times. But what was the government's choice at that critical time? Not to talk to debaters, to show indifference and lack of understanding, and to the government included a statement of mistrust from the labor movement as well as the organizations of the economy. The conclusion is that negotiations were achieved in the public markets and government, Iceland's government, gave up a dress policy for their employees. The government has given up a dress policy for its employees and is just going to put the basics out of the collective agreements in the public market. The point of the bill that states that the criteria should be signed after May 1 is preprogrammable and must not be agreed. This threshold must be submitted to the year-to-year range so that the treaties are also below. Otherwise, the peace that has to be created is not created. And what did it say on the evening news? It described the highest. The prime minister, for in the medical dispute, did not create an emergency. But now that the big women's classes, nurses, midwives, radiologists, and biologists are in a strike, there has been an emergency that makes them feel that it is important to set laws. I say back, it's time to go to the top. The prime minister realizes that he must appreciate these classes and let their election be reflected in their importance. I'd like to say this here that we on welfare committee have at the beginning of the strike that has died, as well as the reported nurses during the last term, which were then retracted, since the governor of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir went into a special effort, has called our governor, Land Hospital and Hospital in Akureyri, and in some case, health care in the capital area because of these strikes. We haven't gotten involved in the fight, but we've been asking about the safety of patients and the long-term health issue. So it is essential that when this issue is discussed in the General and Education Committee, they be referred to a review to the welfare committee so that we can call this same party and review this. If a greater part of the Generals feels that it is not important to receive the review of the health - care committee, then it is time to put that committee down. V.E.G. A health minister does not have the humanity of carrying this bill himself, but everyone knows that the health - class shark is involved. If the welfare committee is not to be discussed, this is a complete lack of respect for the health system and the important work being done there, so I assume that it will be my request as the head of a health committee. V.E.G. President. Now, this controversy cannot be solved without additional funding. We don't have a conversation at the Council, and I'm fully aware that in a fight and negotiations, people will have to meet in some way. But everyone who knows something about the health system in Iceland knows that there has to be an increase in funding for the system, otherwise we don't solve this problem. Hv. paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir did well with the design problem in the system. It'll only get worse if this course is not turned away. For increased contributions to the health system, this is the case at the highest level. Secretary of health as well as any other Ministers, the Supreme Minister. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. Secretary of education and culture in the absence of the secretary of finance signed a statement following the agreements with medical personnel. It says that the health system should live in the same framework for financial resources and the number of employees and other northern countries. Right away. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson asked the highest question. The secretary of health to see if he was not going to fulfill that statement, then the minister responded harshly, saying that we were just going to live on the same terms, here is the system with similar funds. That's all wrong. This report in Science shows that it takes about 33 billion in the business to catch an average in other parts of the North countries. It's just here, here on this magazine, and we're not talking about getting to the same place as Norway, which has a lot more money than we do, and where our health workers are flying in big streams. We're just talking about the average thing, and then, of course, we'll take into account the population compositions and the like. But at the height. A health minister denys the fact that we are in a miserable position. There is no understanding of this serious problem at the highest level. Governments, but the whole nation agrees that there should be a budget for health care. This is what is close to a heart in women and men, in rural areas, in rural areas, in people regardless of age or income. Our health in Iceland is what unites us as a nation, and we must place more money on it. In addition, memos are quoted from Iceland's surgeon, Iceland's surgeon, who is loyal to his role in speaking for the safety of patients. He has expressed serious anxiety, and he says that although a strike should be ended, it did not solve the problem of the system for an extended period of time. There must be a clear statement that negotiations will be continued in order to create an ongoing level of activity within the medical system. There is no such statement in this bill. It's just the same disregard and disrespect for the women of the health system. And then we're gonna come here for a week to celebrate the 100th term of women. It's going to be quite a festival. There we may be able to beat down the classes of the medical system, the women of the health system, that will be a wonderful gathering, and will increase our respect for them. I'm going to say the last thing: law ain't no solution. It must be made at peace, and it must be recognized that much money is missing from the seminary. We need to do this to keep nurses, midwives, biologists, and radiologists now operating in the public system, and we need to do this to get more and more people to get into the system to maintain first-class health care for the future because the pressures of the system will only increase with the relative increase in the elderly. The union stands in opposition to this legislation and considers it to be a threat to the future of health care services in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u160	Madam President. Today, it is not a joy to stand here discussing this law, and it is a disaster when you hear in the people who work in those classes. As I said earlier today, although the reasons for supporting this matter are primarily related to health care professionals, there are more trade unions below. I have found it important that people who work in the health sector now have strong judgment in the community for walking on third party, many of them, many of whom are on hand. As noted above, strikes would have been in vain if they had no consequences. Yet, there is no one who wants to be in such a situation. This is something that is being done in absolute distress because nothing else has gone on, nothing else has gone on, and that is why people use this right. In all the talk of the patient's equipment and circumstances, I have felt that the pressures that health - care professionals have had to endure have been forgotten for many years. Healthcare professionals suffer from all kinds of illness, musculoskeletal disorders, and other factors because of the pressures they face. We know that it is usually too small, but there are also extremely hardworking people who run a lot of steps, even though the number of wards in the hospitals has declined, not just at the Land Hospital. This, of course, would mean that people burn up much earlier than normal because they are underage. Of course, no one wants sick people to wait for services or cures, but I feel that neither the human rights of those who do the work are allowed. I think it's important. What grieves a person in this relationship now, when law is being passed, is that the problem still remains unsolved. Based on the e - mails we've received, we're losing even more people abroad than we've ever been because they're the most sought - out workers. You could say, as it has been said, that people are being educated to serve abroad where they get better pay and that the equipment is far better than here. What was the highest. A health minister to say that he said today that he could not see anything that could lay the groundwork for an agreement? What will he accomplish before July 1? Will he satisfy the people for obedience? What is he saying if there's no interest in negotiating, if he doesn't see anything? Then the idea of delaying a strike is evidently taking an untimely strike. There's no set of sunset rules in this bill. The will seems to be out of hand, too. I'm wondering what the highest part is. The health minister of Kristján Þór Júlíusson will offer in addition to what SA presented as the basis for the agreements offered. If he doesn't see anything out of this, what's he gonna offer? What does he think can lead to treaties? At any rate, this has not been made clear if he sees anything that can be done to achieve an agreement. I feel that the government has done a terrible thing about its time too. There is a huge cost in the medical system that has already taken place because humans have been inflexible in contracts. Instead of agreeing on the requirement for education to be evaluated for pay and other information, it is decided to leave the agency in the hands of a business organization. The Kingdom is fulfilling a certain responsibility. It's completely unpleasant. Like others, I felt that the tax returns to the highest level. As soon as the bill of delinquency was announced, a minister of finance may not be just what needs to be done in this discussion. Even though he felt that there would be good results for all the employees, we know and have research that is not the best thing to do if we try to achieve an even more favorable outcome. This included the study of Cambridge University, which has recently been published because it is entirely out of the table. I also said today that one of the things that strengthened my faith that it was not a great willingness to meet the demands of health professionals and other public employees within the BHM and Icelandic nurses is that in a national financial program 2% above a pay raise meant either cutbacks or tax returns. We know that the current government is small for taking in income with taxes. They'd have to find out where to cut down if she's going to offer a better offer, which, as I said before, has not been shown. Lára V. Júlíusdóttir, the Supreme Court attorney and specialist in the Labour Court, this morning's hearing that the Convention of the People was not only protected by the Constitution but would be protected by international contracts, the International Jobs Agency, social contracts, and various other agreements that would be passed by the legislashed and laws would not be passed on unless other attempts had been made. I think that if people show up to a bargaining table for weeks they always make the same offer in their hands, they haven't tried everything they can. Then they have refused to listen to a certain position. A statement here laid down is also one of the things that we have criticized. I hope, because I'm on a full-scale and educational committee that gets this case covered, that it will be looked at to change his installation as compared to what the bill says. Of course, in view of what happened this morning in Lára's case, it would be interesting to consider what is called a forced statement, that under certain circumstances such a course would be accomplished, and the International Work Office would be less aware of such a procedure, and it would increase the likelihood that people would be less put on the wall. I thought it was an interesting point, and we might discuss it on the committee. There are a few things in this case that I find to be very dangerous, to receive all kinds of e - mails that make you very concerned, not just to us here, but to our future people, our children and grandchildren, if we face the fact that our medical institutions cannot be shared. Where, then, are we? I fear that much, considering what happened on the East Field today, because I went out a little, that there's something we came up to face in all too many areas, that it really will be the result. People aren't saying their jobs are funny, and they weren't threatening them in the e - mails we received that they'd resign if they had a law. People are atrocious. Hence, the main causes of apathy and conduct toward the health groups of the country are apathy and abuse. I think it's something that we'll be working out and biting out of the needle by not taking the initiative before. Despite the fact that many women are doctors, who are absolutely correct, I know a few of these, this does not change the fact that the health system does not function without nurses. There are not too many men there, although there are certainly some. The fact that you can negotiate with doctors and sign agreements to build hospitals, so that you can find no financial plan for the next four years so that you can't, like some jobs are considered more important than others, even though doctors would not work here in our hospitals unless the other health care providers were available. It is very important to keep that in mind. I also worry that by having such a sentence or whatever it is that will not make the government's responsibility to negotiate, men will have turned the responsibility away and put it on others. That makes me feel very sad, and it doesn't make sense. I would have felt that the government, as I said before, should have taken this case and finished it. It is strange to intend to set laws to encourage yourself to negotiate, for that is what is being done. The government is a diplomat and it is a law to encourage itself to negotiate. It's very special. It is, of course, the respect and trust that are being tried to create in such negotiations, as we have also discussed, to change this arrangement and to practice negotiations at all times. Of course, this is a situation that no one wants to face, but the government cannot abide by its own covenant to promote peace and harmony between employment markets and government. The health professionals that are under the government and the rest of the staff are part of the workforce. So I repeat it again, there are many others, although the evidence is primarily to health care professionals and the distress there. To be a little legal in the rest, it's also interesting to see how the report is passed on to the government. It is very important to realize that the government does not establish laws, that is, the Council. It says here, by permission of the President: Neither will it be overlooked that by the actions of BHM and FIH, the funds have used their right to strike. The freedom of the agreement and the right to strike have, in the opinion of the government, achieved its purpose to the extent of protection of 74. The constitution and Article 11. MSE. As noted earlier, however, the time has come for the actions to put the public interest and rights of others at risk and to be put out of control by the government alone. The government doesn't, however, decides to submit this bill. I remind you that members of Congress have to accept it, not just ministers. So here at the end, with President's permission: ▪ In the opinion of the government, - once again - ◯ It is predictable that the government's solutions are not sufficient to solve a party's quarreling issues. This, in fact, is remarkable, and shows what it often does to itself in many of its high ways. I think it's important and particularly important for the outside people to realize that it's the government that's making this move, but it's going to be the prospective members of the greater part, the forward squad and the Independence Party, who come to accept these laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u161	V.E.G. President. We here discuss laws against BHM and the Social Nurses, a dark day in real life, especially health issues in the country, but also because of the way this is going to happen. It has been shown fine in the discussion earlier today that efforts have been made repeatedly to discuss the collective case, to discuss the medical situation, to discuss the actions of the government, what they have done to achieve contracts to avoid such a serious impact on the dispute. It is always better to see that this incident appears to have been practiced by men, especially by BHM, who started the long first and actually began on April 7, the past, that there was no intention of making a deal. It has also been shown in interviews. V.E.G. A financial minister has said that when contracts are made in general public markets, it is not possible to negotiate with public employees, but when you consider it in the context of the fact that when contracts have been reached in the general market, the table is really nothing but contracts. It is also being put into practice that this agreement should be made on the market if the public sector and contracts of BHM and nurses make more money. In other words, it has been linked, so the contract rights there were more and less taken from both BHM and the Society of Nurses. Of course, this is a very serious matter, and it is impossible to accept the fact that certain classes have to suffer because they cannot negotiate their terms. It's been very good, including. in the last speaker, that it is sad to follow up on the discussion, e.g. in the case of the advisor, the highest. Minister Sigurður Jóhannsson, when he says, in part, by permission of president: The government has not wanted to interfere with the dispute. He speaks in the third person, that they are not in the dispute. It is also very serious to say that all institutions on the board are put off the government and the agency that the Commission has shut off the government. Then people talk about it as if they had nothing to do with it, and it comes over and over in the discussion, it's like they didn't interfere. And maybe you're right, i.e. They made a very strict plea, forbade any agreement, and then did nothing to that otherwise and have little or nothing to try to avoid a strike, let alone try to stop it by making a bargain. I say it was really bad to get into all the medical discussions because it can be said that before a crash, for example. The land hospital was almost bankrupt. He had 3 billion angles in good health. Then, after the 2007/2008 season, there will be a new government in which the community is being restored after a collapse, and it can be said frankly that it was under a great deal of pressure on the health system. As a result, I did not revise the person mentioned here in 2012, saying: "We have already gone too far, and we cannot go any further. We began to donate back into the medical system, which was very important, putting money in it in an effort to reverse matters. At that time, there had been some disclosures. Nurses, made it possible to get out of this by having an agreement and sharing with doctors in 2011 and more. Then, a new government will take over with a great promise, but its first step is to raise a budget of 1 billion in cutoffs. That'll blow your face again. That's how it's been. It's a wonderful promise, but then there's always an endless punch, and one of the punches being hit in the face by the health professionals who are coming today with this bill to the law that the government is offering to the negotiationrs. Now, it was our decision in the government position, i.e. Most of them, and the United States decided that since the case came from the government like this, it was appropriate not to delay it for five days until it was accepted into the council but to take it before and try to discuss it in detail, trying to get careful coverage and adjustments in the discussion. The General and Education Committee, I understand, is being given the bill for discussion. Of course, it is of great importance to call in the party of the dispute and try to find out what differences have been in the table, what action has been taken, what the State's authority has offered, or put forth to resolve the issue. It is also very important to know what to do after hearing a talk. The minister of finance, where he says he is hoping that in the next 14 days, before a judicial hearing, a contract could be reached. Then the question must be raised, and there will be one of the questions that must be raised. The General and Education Committee that needs to ask the highest minister: What is he going to put on the table to prevent the execution of a procedure? Of course, everyone wants to be written, and there is a set time window. It is obvious that negotiations can be reached, but this requires funding, additional financial resources in this sector. Of course, this applies to more staff, and while I'm speaking specifically about health care professionals, I'm aware that more people are having a strike, and we can include veterinarians, Icelandic rock doctors' Fong, Iceland's Film Game Association, physical therapists, Iceland's Psychologists, library and information experts, Iceland's United States Training Association and the Banky Association. As we look at the underlying issue and what is being considered, it is clear that a deal has been made by the government that started things. First, of course, and that's fine on the bill, signed contracts in December 2013. It is the general market and the labour market parties who make a short term contract to try to contain the inflation and to stabilise, to make peace in December, and the government is in charge of it, and to bring some action into that agreement. It was hardly possible, but it did not start until June the following year, and they were extremely weak and very weak. It was mainly a reduction in alcohol, tobacco, and gasoline costs, and we've been overextended here by about 20 bucks. on the red wine bottle and 1 jar. on the flier that has probably never paid off because there was so much exercise at the gas prices back then. This was a donation to the government. At the same time, the rural communities contributed handsomely by stopping their remuneration increases at the time. Thereafter, the next health - class contracts are treaties with specialist physicians who had been uncontracted for a certain period of time. There was evidence to suggest that negotiations had to be made, but it makes them so generous that they accept the rise of experts almost all the things they had decided to raise their income and income. Besides that, they'll be sure of the deal. Third, there are triples in this contract of expansion. There are between 300 and 350 doctors who work at the private sector, in private companies, or in their own rooms, and many of them also work in the hospitals. Then there's a deal with the doctors and say, "We're going to offer you 3.5%." Of course, nothing worked out and ended up making treaties that were much more destructive. At the same time, other health - care groups want similar elevations. Significantly, this bill assumes that the criteria for raising are from May 1, i.e. After the contracts were made by the government at a high school teacher in the state and with the doctors. Of course, this is not going to work. This criterion must be removed and returned to the years so that it will be all below when the scale determines the level of increase. There were some things that broke. At the same time, promises are made in connection with the medical contract with a thorough agreement that restores optimism. Our goal is to build new hospitals, improve instruments, achieve the goal of competing with the northern countries in terms of financial contributions, equipment, and all of that. And then this comes, right in the face of it. We're talking about if you're going to sign this deal, you're going to need 10, 20, 30 billion into your health right now just to withstand the comparison between the North countries. What we're talking about now, we're going to get these numbers more explained by the Committee, there are 3, 4, 5 billion totals needed to achieve contracts in this fight. Thus, the whole problem is the worst, and it shows little respect, especially if you consider it in the context of the problem. The chairman of the budget is here repeatedly speaking down public employees, their rights, they're too much, they're supposed to be able to fire people, etc. V.E.G. A financial minister comes and says that the equation in this country has become too high, and then all the ideas go out that we are trying to get the right share of the so - called women class or classes where women are in much more part, they are always left behind. Even when we did an attempt to achieve an equal pay campaign with a 5% average increase that was higher in some people than after stock contracts, people have quickly gone for it. We must also live with a view to receiving much more than others. Thus, we can take those who come out of school as engineers, engineers, or technicians, or they are in the articles that if you look back into traditional male articles and compare them with psychologists or nurses, then perhaps 100 are you. K. Difference in monthly rates at baseline in equally old individuals with equally long-term education. What does this justify? I'm talking about government staff. I'm not talking about people who work in the private sector and who can get additional pay from contracts there with professional drivers. It is important that, now that the case arises, the law is being reviewed. Still, I can't see that the Conspiracy or the person standing here will, under any circumstances, accept these bills. We are totally against this method and believe that the government and the state have in no way fully tried to reach any agreements, have hidden behind contracts on the public market, and thought they could do nothing and clearly find where they should stop. I think it would be enough to start growing up, it'd be a run-of-the-air pressure, and then we're gonna stop nurses and we're gonna stop BHM. It's the people they're going to take responsibility for the stability. But we need to discuss how the judicial decision is made. The Supreme Court is to appoint him as they say in the bill? I have myself believe that the court will bring a case to the party, and then I'll ship a pointer so that those at the table will be members who have been quarreling and then will be appointed by the Supreme Court. I have earlier mentioned this time limit for the May 1 sentence. It is absolutely necessary to bring it back to January 1, 2015, so that it covers the medical contracts and high school teachers' contracts. From this bill it can be read that the criteria for a crime are essentially written so that the verdict of arbitration will be merely a deal offer of the state. It can't be much of a crime taken in such a frame. At the latest, it is very unusual that a sentence can determine the length of a work stop, the strike court is removed for the time it is decided. And we can see that if men decide to make a contract for three or four years, all these companions will have been taken to three or four years of age. It does not work out, and it is unacceptable completely to include so much intervention in the Constitutional contract. It's a very big case and a great prince's business, sad that it should be this way, sad that you haven't done better in reaching contracts, sad that it's another blow to the health system. It will be our task to make it the best thing to do at the council. I would like to agree with what was said by the first speaker that it is, of course, the vote of every senator who decides whether the bill will be legally or not. [[The president calls.]] I proclaim my mold, and I hope that some council members will also vote against us so that this will not go through easily and easily.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u162	Mr. President. Now BHM strikes have lasted about 11 weeks, and nurses have been on strike for less than three weeks. We're standing here today, and tonight, and we'll discuss whether or not to set laws on these strikes. At the beginning of my speech, I want to say that I'm totally opposed to it. One of the most disturbing things in this matter is that this is a pitade where BHM and nurses are in a dispute with the state, and now this same kingdom is going to come and set laws on the strike. This just feels like a really awkward situation to be in that there are not some outsiders to share in which the State is going to intervene, but it's just the state that sits at the bargaining table. V.E.G. In fact, a seafaring and agricultural minister, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, said in his transfer address -- and it's a total figure of what he wants if you want to do the highest. It's being moved by a marine dignitary and agri-gri-gritor, but not by either the highest. Secretary of finance, or actually Supreme Minister. Prime Minister, but fine. It was the highest. Marine and agricultural minister, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson. In his public address, he said that he was not going to go through the standards set out. I wondered, why not, and I wonder if it could not have just caused more light to shed on the matter, though it was the highest. The minister of finance, Bjarni son of Benediktsson, came into it only in his speech. But I thought it greatly improved that we, who are supposed to be discussing this matter and taking the final decision on whether a law will be laid or not, would be an improvement if we were to be better informed in the first issue. as to what the debate is about, but hopefully it's something that will at least appear in the Committee's activities, and we may have more reasons when we discuss the second matter. V.E.G. In his talk, a minister also said something about postponing a strike and giving others a chance to talk. But what has happened in the last 11 weeks? Is it not the same person here to suggest a law that has been discussing with these people? There is an opportunity for the lack of conversation. I can't see that making laws doesn't change anything about the basis for conversation. I think it must rather let evil blood into the people on which the law is given, that they are treated this way after no negotiations have taken place. It's strange that at the same time the senators were studying the bill this morning, reports of the Supreme Court. Secretary of the budget would be at 2 p.m. 12 Communicating With Your Companies Into what kind of environment or community is the highest. Ministers to talk about tax losses if the problem is that the government cannot afford to pay those who work in the state who are competitive with what is happening in other parts of the North? Is it, then, the right time to start paying taxes? I don't think so. I think there's more of a sign that we need tax money to run around here with strong infrastructure. After a collapse, the insides are extremely weak, and we especially need to think that they will become weaker. That is exactly what we need to strengthen them, and part of building up our infrastructure is to strengthen our health. Not long ago, when doctors went on a strike, there was much emphasis on negotiating, and, fortunately, treaties were accepted. Then a statement was published that was signed by governments as well as Iceland's Medical Association and Iceland's Surgeons Association, which emphasized the importance of the health system and the willingness to strengthen and improve it. What really happened to that emphasis? Is it steamed up now? A few days ago, we were discussing a proposal for a resolution on a budget plan for four years. It did not ensure that there was a special desire to strengthen and add the wood; rather, it was found to reduce, not to reduce by 1% to 2019 what goes on with it. I wouldn't think it was strengthening the infrastructure. Another factor that has greatly disturbed me in my discussion of this strike is that these strike operations can affect the health of patients. Of course, it's true that hospital strikes are affecting the health of patients, but getting laid right now, I think it's a pretty short line. I suspect that more than the members of Congress have received quite a few e - mails today, which says exactly that nurses, and only perhaps nurses, have begun to resign or are considering it. There is no doubt that we need nurses into the future, and therefore I think that by putting laws on the strike now, something may be saved for a very short time, but in the long run, this will have a very negative impact on our welfare system. Also, I feel uncomfortable with the importance of the situation today, that life, health, and security of people are being put at risk, so it is said that there are very rich public interests in order to get back to normal health care. The clinics are always referred to first, but there are other professions. But I feel as if this is playing on the feelings and consciences of a strike man, and that is primarily playing on the feelings and consciences of a large part of women's classes, carers who are even classes that have, in fact, had to live in the light of the fact that their work effort is not worth the same amount of money as other classes. That's why I feel really disturbed by the emphasis here on the security factor, i.e. one-sided. It's not just the crew coming to the bargain table. Of course, it's also the government. It is also the Kingdom that is responsible for the conditions that have come. The follow-up data with the bill is covered in three lines with the effects of the bill, and it says, with the permission of the president: It is obvious that public interest will be in place for halting strike operations in order to ensure the interests of the stakes and if the bill accepts this, this will lead to the restoration of health and other institutions to normalisation. As I entered here earlier in my case, the long-term effects are not being considered. This is not an attempt to determine whether this bill and this strike are likely to lead to data, even if it is entirely intended for nurses, especially but also radiologists and other classes, to be broadcasts. How will this affect the health system? That's why I'm really worried. Finally, I'd like to include only the discussion of the procedure in Article 3. The bill, which says, with permission of the highest power. President: The Court shall decide on the pay of the members of the Member State. 1st par. and their other responsibilities reflect on the benefits of those who may be considered comparable in education, jobs, hours of work and responsibilities and, depending on events, collective contracts signed from May 2015 and general development of dress products in this country. - In other words, they're not supposed to look to the collective agreements that were made with doctors earlier this year. We're also going to take care of economic stability. This is where I feel it's the law what the law should have to do with a set of standards. In fact, it is said that if this bill is approved, the state will make a judgment, and we have already said, which conclusion it is to reach. But I think it is perfectly clear that the health system is not able to endure in the long run. What the health system cannot tolerate is that the workers working there feel this way and that their work is not appreciated when it comes to remuneration and working conditions. That's not what we're going to do by putting these laws on. That's why I'm going to vote against them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u163	Mr. President. I'd like to ask the senator what she thinks the government is going to do because it's clear what was promised for elections - okay, men betray election promises, etc. But it is also clear, and it was shown when I gave this speech because they nodded the health - care minister, who realizes that putting tasks on health care professionals may mean that they are going. They were very aware of this when they worked with doctors earlier this year. V.E.G. A health minister is also aware that this puts a first - class health system at risk. There is room, both on budgets that were 3.4 billion in the past and with prime projections for the release of the past, with the pay of the state to the Secret Bank, more than 7◯7.5 billion, if I remember correctly, will be saved in the annual interest payments. There's room for state funds. Of course, governments can set priorities for health care. It took about 4 billion to negotiate with doctors, something like that, and this may be similar to twice as many employees. That's a similar amount. There is a range of vectors. It's not necessary to make laws. I don't fully understand what the government is doing with this, but I wanted to ask the senator what it does to her.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u164	Mr. President. I think it's pretty clear that governments are not doing it to strengthen the health system we have today, which is sorely needed for building and strengthening, whether we look for ways to improve the quality of our staff or its working position, e.g. by building a new hospital. Although money has been placed on it, it is not nearly enough. The health system was starving before collapse. The setting was set so that the welfare issues of the years after collapse were cut smaller, but just now that we're trying to straighten out the cow, and the people see that there is room. There's gonna be some money in this community that we're here to make decisions about setting priorities but not taking place on this bill that there should be priorities for the health system. At any rate, it does not seem to be willing to meet the requirements of dress reform by employees. Of course, at the same time, we are reading about what is being done in the media about building a personal core of health care. That's where it's at the highest. A government will guide us and our health system? When it comes to giving such a bill as soon as it gets to the highest level. Health Minister tells you that taxes are reduced. What, then, can you do to believe that this is not a place to transport the health system to your private resources? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u165	Mr. President. I'm very much in favor of the private initiative. However, when it comes to a service where you don't want to increase the numbers of customers, you really want to reduce them, you create situations where the customers are reduced - like prisons, we don't want to increase the number of customers, and when it comes to patients, you want to reduce the number of those who are sick - it's dangerous to have a very broad and strong interest stake in the community that has the advantage of growing them. The main objective of an enterprise, defined by the father of modern management, Peter Drucker, is to create and keep customers in such a way that I pay attention to this. Noam Chomsky points out that whenever it is due to go into private armor, it is almost inevitable, and we see it everywhere in the world starting with the expansion of the Kingdom - preaching work. Maybe this is the way, I don't know. That is why I ask the senator to see if she can give us a better insight into it. It is clear that there is room for financial affairs ahead of us and though that would be $3.4 billion. No amount of money was sent, however, and for all health institutions, 3 billion were not sent there. How does it sound to the top? Secretary of finance? On the day of labor, he said that it was a priority to lift taxes on a big industry, a fortune that has her debts to a daughter or her mother's abroad so set out that she has to pay a lot less taxes in Iceland, something that other countries have taken for granted. That's priority. What is a priority now when it comes to the cost of emissions when money flows into the Secret Bank? What is a priority there? [[The president calls.]] To lower taxes. The priorities of this government are not a prime health system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u166	Mr. President. You were absolutely right. A senator said; of course, we want to reduce the number of those who are ill. At any rate, we can take steps to make sure that as many as possible have good health. This can be done by equalizing our options. We can do this by creating a situation in which, for example, everyone can afford to eat good and healthy food. One way to reduce the number of people who suffer from various health problems is simply to promote a healthy, successful life - style. However, the number of those who have access to the health system should not be reduced. That's what I'm afraid will be the result if this is the case for further private business with increased payment. This makes it possible that only those who have more money can afford health care. V.E.G. The medical minister of Kristján Þór Júlíusson here said in his discussion that it was a treasure to reduce taxes on individuals. What is the clout, and for what individuals if the co-administration decreases and inequities increase? What, then, is the better for those who cannot afford access to the system? These are questions that we need to consider and answer in connection with this discussion because when and if it is a step to set laws on this strike, we are weakening our welfare system.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u167	Mr. President. I'd like to get my hands on the bill right away, Section 3. The bill shows what kind of play this is from the government. If there's reconciliation and reconciliation with men, then what they put forth as their first offer is not just: Do as I say, or I'll take away your strike rights for two weeks, and then I'll force you to do what I say. It's not the first message: exactly as I'm forcing you to do, you're in exactly the same position you were in. This is not the first invitation of those who really want to make peace. But that's what this bill says. The situation is the way it has been. I've heard from the N nurse's partner that the scope of government contracts is just what's put into the bill. The back of the bill says it's 3. par.: ▪ 1st mg. will consider the criteria for making the decision and the work that should be considered. In this regard, he will look to those who are the most comparable to education, employment, work hours, and responsibility. Then it should take into account the labour contracts signed on May 1, 2015.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 10 people tell me in the gym. [[For example, consider the following: Pages. 10.]] This right here, i.e. This procedure, which is not made by the parties on both sides of the table, no, only by the state and the Supreme Court. If he orders and sets things up so that there will be a real treasure - a priority for health professionals such as the people of the country wish - if he puts things in such a way, the Supreme Court may have become responsible for walking outside his realm. This is totally set up so that it is so well framed before the state and those members of the Supreme Court will represent the State. What frame will they then work on? Yes, they should take into account collective agreements signed since May 1 this year, not since January 1, when doctors experienced significant increases, the necessary increases to keep the experts in Iceland. When we are going to try to hold on to our nurses, we should not think about it. No, it's not supposed to. That's the way it is now, so it's gonna be cut into the bill. It comes with the general development of the sounds here on the country. What's the general development of the hatchlings in this country? If we use nurses, we need to start talking about this general trend. The general trend is back in 2006, that is, the reference year, and what is the general development since then? If we look at the year 2006, nurses, like all other women's classes, had a much lower salary than those of men. So we start with a place where this class is much lower than it should be. This is the second reference to the frame. Added to this are the following: ◯Italics ours. that the decision to make may reflect on the duration of the labour contracts that have been signed.• What is it? These contracts are being established for three years. That is the standard that has recently been established. If someone in the audience disagrees with me, he can come up with me and correct me. I see that the senator is smiling, but he is not ready to respond later. That's what I'm talking about. Don't you think a senator would be prepared to correct me, come and answer me? He doesn't seem to want it. No, he doesn't. The reason that May 1 is given as a reference is that the main collective agreements, older collective agreements, were terminated. In this case, it is possible to include the medical profession and the healthcare profession, nurses and others in the medical profession now and the medical professions. There is no problem making an exception in this regard. It also says: "The Court's right to keep economic stability stable. [[The president calls.]] Yes, a court order is appointed by the Supreme Court and should be maintained in the economy as a standard. The priorities are perfectly clear. [[The president calls.]] It's a baseless budget, an economic stability, a drop in taxes, but it's all right. [[The president calls.]] Then you just say, "It's a priority, priorities, not a quality health system. "
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u168	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the talk and the making this so - called statement a subject. Without me being a genius in how a sentence should be made, at least it makes you feel a little strange and energy repetitious that there is a state to command all parties, the three parties in it, and no charge that any of the stakeholders in this country have to sit down, no more than the state wants, except that the law is written in itself at what time it may be assigned to vote agreements and that this must also be a stable in the economy. Counts 'em out. A senator who has often discussed the subject at a church council of people's trust in the State and is in the very category that now has the highest confidence in voters, that with such legal management, the public's trust in the state as an institution is being increased?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u169	Mr. President. As I've said about this institution, General, it's true that people don't trust her if she's not worthy of trust. I think that's what we're seeing in the community. The people don't trust this institution, and that's right. The people of the land do not trust this government well and rightly do. I think this corruption that is unnecessary and irresponsible will further reduce confidence in the government and rightly so. You see, this is not an essential process. There's another way to go. There's a deal. And if humans really feel at peace with each other and have agreements in mind, then the natural thing to do is immediately solved with the contract as a solution to the future so that health care professionals will not go away. They don't play out songs like that. Then they give the smaller part, stakeholders, debaters, i.e. to those who are to put a law on if it is felt that there is a need for a strike law, a time to look at it. In that case, it is not a matter of haste. Rather, it is an opportunity to look into the matter and perhaps find solutions here. Therefore, it is not available to distribute. They're down to the council. They're arguing about who's supposed to do it. The whole process is very unstable. They're pulling the case into the council, pressing it on to the program, and likely just want to finish it as soon as any other law that this government puts on.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u170	Mr. President. It was a little interesting as hell. A senator made it clear that no one had wanted to do the case or who wanted to make the case known. And it's a little interesting that here's the Minister's class empty. There certainly is one, topv. Secretary of state sitting in a side room, yes, and cool, there's another, the highest. Marine and agricultural ministers are in the other side of the room, but that doesn't make any difference, since the minister class is empty.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u171	That's not fair.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u172	[[To the point: No more than one from the left green.]] At any rate, we can agree that there is not a large crowd here in the hall right now to discuss this matter. What I want to ask you is why. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson is about the long-term effects of bathing now and putting these laws on the health system. Takes it. A senator who agrees with me or does he disagree with me on the fact that this can be quite important to us and it's very bad, just dangerous to us as a community? If I'm going to be very dramatic, I'd just like to say that this is where we're driving nails in the coffin of our medical system.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u173	Mr. President. Some members of the administrative body were becoming increasingly aware of the location of the council leaders and the presidents of the minority. I can tell them. They're in a meeting now with the agents of the strike on which the law is to be passed. I can tell them the same way too. Councilmen where the diplomats are. They're at the national game instead of sitting here at the Assembly Hall and discussing this matter. First-class health system is no priority to this government. In the event of the crisis, of course, there is a potential crisis. The minister of health was standing here in this hall, and I admitted it when I mentioned it in a speech today. Of course, everyone knows. They're putting a first-class health system at risk, everybody knows that. It is not in the priority of this government to maintain a prime health system here. I just don't know how to make this clear. It's incredibly sad, incredibly sad. There's money for this. It's just missing the will. It's known to all members of Congress who sit in this room and look at themselves. They don't like it, I know it. [[Up front.]] One senator says: I'm writing. But I can still see that you feel bad about this. Of course, risking a first - grade health system is not well felt, and a health minister acknowledges that this puts a first - grade health system at risk. We can afford to stop it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u174	Mr. President. There have been many good talks here, and I think this case is all very clear before and that is quite right. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson told us earlier that this case is extremely wrong on the part of the government. I can barely remember a Senate case that has to do with a job dispute as full of holes, which is as slim as where anyone skates rather than for what is right and true. And even though I didn't have much to blame for. Agricultural minister in this case, perhaps now of many stewards who are the most innocent in spite of this case, is still responsible for this bill. There are some things I need to ask him about what they are like, such as in the highest order. A minister allows himself to quote the geologist's memo, since it seems to me that the most important tip of the surgeons is not published with the bill, which is certainly relevant to every man mentioned here. However, I had no intention of coming here to give a talk earlier, but today I had a brief answer. Secretary of health. His divorce with me when I no longer had the opportunity to correct his misinformation, in that way I am moved to come here to have a place to speak at the highest level. Minister. I am convinced that he is here somewhere in the nearby room and will definitely come running at the end of my talk to answer, so I won't make any particular disagreement about it at the highest. However, prime minister. I don't see a health minister here completely in front of me right now. Before I come to the points that I've slightly killed here, I have to say, of course, it's strange what this case has been done. It may in itself be praised at the highest. A seafaring and agricultural minister who takes in the king iron and abjecture and carries this issue, although it is not partly related to the case. Some of the unions this legalization is supposed to involve certainly are connected with his Ministry, but when you read the name of these 17 unions, most of them are at the top of the project. Secretary of health. Everything normal would have either the highest. The prime minister transferred this bill to the highest degree. Secretary of health. I have said what I believe in how good government should, of course, should be reached by the law to the employees of the state who hear under four ministers, would have been most reasonable. The minister would have presented the case. V.E.G. The prime minister did not seem to have the right to do so. And the highest. Similarly, the prime minister does not seem to have the colours to come here and give a talk. Then I'd like to recall, Mr. President, that in spite of everything, even though they have found it to the highest degree. Ministers have not been here for the entire discussion, however, so to speak. Agricultural minister here gave excellent testimony to another bad language and was, in many respects, honest enough to speak in a way that exposed the failings of the matter. V.E.G. Similarly, the minister of health has held a speech and had a word with certain members of the council today, and it must be said of the highest degree. For credit, the minister of finance came here and defended the policy displayed in this bill. I'm going to ask the highest. President: Is it really meant to end this discussion without the highest authority? Will the prime minister come here and express his opinion on this matter? I find it quite remarkable, if it happens, to think that it would be very helpful to smell this case if you could reach a place of words at the highest level. Prime Minister. Those who take the lead and who are chosen must also lead. In this matter, I think it's the best. The prime minister did not lead. Mr. President. I had a place here today where I spoke at the highest. A health minister, and I reviewed this to the fifth of January of the past. Department of Health under declaration plus the highest possible condition. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. Financial and economic ministers. True, it was the Illugi Gunnarsson, the highest. The Minister of Education and Culture, who signed it instead of the highest. Financial and economic ministers, but it clearly states that part of completing the medical strike issues was a promise by the government to place more money on the health system. This is made clear in Article 2 of this declaration, dated January 5, which simply says, by permission of the Supreme Court. President: ▪ The health system resides in a comparable framework for financial resources and the number of employees and other North countries taking into account Iceland's population specification and locality. If people and places should have something that would bring any consequences to that effect, I would say that they would probably need more money on an individual than in any other country in the North. But the highest. At that time, when I was not able to come and correct him, a health minister boldly asked me what authority I had in the world that there was something missing in the fact that there were contributions to the health of my health, so they reached an average in the North countries. I think it's the next time you say "sorry." A health minister to speak in this way. This clearly indicates that it takes 33 billion to achieve the average. I know why. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson has studied well because he has done the sewing work on this, but I read this here in a science report and the source referred to there is no more or less than the data in the publication of the European Economic and Development Agency, by permission of the President Health at a Gloance: Europe 2014. In Europe, contributions to health are attributed and compared. If you look at the figures there, you will find that you need huge amounts of money to make donations to health care in Iceland as much as in other parts of the North countries. In view of the supremeness of my life, I feel that it is very important to be present. At that time, a health minister had the gallop to speak in a way that allowed me to go here with unfounded letters. Well, then it can be the highest. Minister of health, if he would like to follow these discussions, try to reinculcate what the European Economic and Development Agency has shown. Now, I'm not going to argue that there was a single leap that could have been achieved, but in view of the fact that this was part of a reconciliation in the wake of a very difficult dispute in the medical system that would put more money in the health system. I'll ask them, Mr President, where is this money? How is it that when such a declaration is made, let us still face a difficult issue with other classes that build up our good health? They are not worth most of it. Governments to get close to getting something similar to that of others, such as doctors. That's why I said it here earlier today that if this argument is in a hurry, it's primarily because of this government, it's going to have it all together with tomatoes and mustard. It was the first job of the highest. A health minister who came into the Ministry to negotiate with specialist physicians at a 23% rise. V.E.G. A health minister told me today that it was wrong, and I agreed, this wasn't all worth right because I forgot to take in the cost, so the elevations I received were probably more than 23%. What, though, were the consequences of their composing in this way? Of course, doctors were inevitable. That is how the first task could be said to be the highest. A health minister has been making a decision that, in effect, directed doctors to follow the same requirement, of course. V.E.G. The Minister of Education and Culture helped to do that. He made a deal with a high school teacher, whom I claimed today that there had been an increase between 25 and 30%, but I would be happy to admit that you have never seen these increases, neither from the local unions from the highest level. Education and cultural minister what the outcome was. In view of this, however, it is not surprising that other health - care groups also begin the same procedure, of course they do. While it may be possible to make a huge agreement in the opinion of many with doctors, how should this not be done in a similar way with others who are as important as health - care providers? Everyone sees that it's very difficult to perform in this way. In that light, I have to say, there was quite an act of humanity at the highest. A health minister today when he struck the ring of his hand here in the puzzle and said that he insisted that the debaters use the time until July 1 to finish this. Well, where was the highest bone? A health minister? He's the Minister, isn't he? Is it not he who is responsible for my life and other subjects if we need them in the hospital? Of course. He is man with power and power. Where have we seen the highest. Ministers stand in putt and talk of the Supreme Court. By putting more into the medical system, as he promised? And where has he seen his cake hit to the top? Secretary of finance? We haven't seen it yet. Or it can. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson, who has been here for the entire discussion and has shown great interest and attention to the health - care system, tells me if it was at the top of the question. By means of what force do we know who are familiar with his activities here at the order of the General Assembly that it can be a great deal? Mr. President. I believe in this case that it is wrong. I am clearly aware that the issue is in a state of confusion, and somehow it needs to be solved. I believe that the government could have moved more and faster, but it didn't seem to be willing. But to solve it in this way will not solve anything, and most of all, permanently. When I say that this case is due to an incorrect issue, I refer to it, as mentioned here in this discussion, that if not within a relatively short time, a judgment is to be passed on. It's the only crime I remember in a business dispute, so the three people sitting in the field are all coming from the other party, the state appoints all three. There is no one who works within the system, the one on the other side of this dispute. Worse yet, it is said that the Court should take into account specific sizes, such as economic stability, which is correct, but similar agreements made after May 1, 2015. Wait, what justice is it, Mr. President, to direct a sentence to make peace in the dispute, to avoid taking into account other treaties, such as the deal with high school teachers, such as the agreements with doctors? That's what I mean when I talk about here being wrong. And I'm also going to allow myself to say it only on the basis of what is being said here in this report, and I may be able to review my second speech, that there are questionable legislation to cover so wide, so many communities, that the European Convention of Human Rights. I said to the highest. Mr President, I was going to ask the highest. Marine and agricultural ministers into what way they use a memo from a land surgeon's office. It is published here on page 8. 6, that at the end of a surgeon's memo, the following is the case, and then he brings it, but he does not say the following by permission of the president. If that were to happen, the government will need to make a clear declaration that negotiations will continue to be made in the future. - i.e. by a procedure - ◯ in order to create a continuous level of work within the medical system. In other words, surgeon general is saying that if this is the way the case is solved, there's a conflict in the system. And he's especially pointing it to us, but the highest. A marine dignitary and agricultural minister who's reporting the case didn't tell us. [[The president calls.]] May I ask, Why not?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u175	Mr. President. There's two points right there. A senator showed me something I didn't know. One of them is the comparison of the amount of money used in the OECD health system. No, I hadn't found that point yet. It is important because governments around here constantly cry out that they put so much in the medical system, that they set their priorities in the medical system. There's never been more in the medical system, we put a billion extra in the health system. This is what you keep saying. Even though there was no more money in medical bills, anyone who lives in Iceland does not buy much, she does not buy much today. There was a collapse, so if we take the health benefits that have been placed in the medical system, I would be surprised if there was never more in the medical system than before. Before the crash, there was a lot more to pay for the crown. In addition, because of the failures, the consequences of this system were long lasting, and there is a large collection of costs that need to be met. Furthermore, it is clear and clear to the presidents of all health institutions of the country prior to Christmas that the price is 3 billion so that they can provide what they say is necessary for health care. However, budgets had a lack of $3.4 billion, so these funds were available. So it is quite clear that governments are not setting priorities in the medical system. Regarding a question to the senator, I would like to ask him if he could add more factors about this, if he has any, in which the government is simply not trustworthy. [[The president calls.]] They make promises over and over again about the health that will not be successful.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u176	Mr. President. The information I used earlier may well have. A senator read in the report I made in my speech published by the OECD, the Organization for Economics and Development. Her name is Health at a Gloance and came out last year. However, he may receive less baptism from this report by reading a report published in Science five days after the highest point. The health minister made his declaration and wrote his name to confirm it, and the story bears the title:'33 billion to the average. According to this report, the overall budget for health care needs to increase by 10 billion to be in harmony with contributions from abroad. The report explains, among other things, how much donations are made for each individual in euros. It is natural to realize that one thing that triggers the average population in the North countries is that the Norwegians we all compare to are very much protected until then. This is important. I'm not saying that there is a single leap to equal this space, but what I'm doing is using it to emphasize that it was almost presumptuous and that it bit the best. The minister of the head of his shame by claiming that today he would challenge me with unfounded letters. He asked: "Where are my sources? It's like the highest. A health minister may not know his ten fingers what is published in a public health report published by OECD, a key organisation to which we are involved. Hv. A senator asked me why. A government might not have fulfilled its promises. [[The president calls.]] There are now some of them, but I don't have time to cross it, so I know why. A senator knows this far better than I do, the expert he has become in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u177	Mr. President. I can go over a few things here. It states in the political resolution of the Independence Party at an election meeting, No. 41, that the Independence Party intends to ensure the safety and well - being of the people of the land by first adding taxes to the urgent and urgent tasks. Period. Then there's a list of some, and the first thing is, safe health care. In conclusion to the Independence Committee for the National Conference, which was submitted to the meeting, it is stated that there will be a high priority priority for financing, and it says a little lower: Is the project urgent and urgent to prioritize taxes so that we do not lose the health care professionals in our country, as can happen if we have legalized health care professionals today, and the highest level. A health minister, an independent individual, agrees that there is a health problem? Is it an urgent and urgent task, then, to prioritate tax money there, as required in the National Conference of Independence Party? I would say yes, of course it is. Can we do this, we have money to do it? Yeah, we got them, that's for sure. We know that this may cost about 3◯4 billion, we can afford it. We are creating room for the emissions of the seagulls by reducing the financial burden of the state funds to over 7 billion, as stated in the early projections, we can afford this. We can afford this. What we may not be able to afford is taking the risk with a major health system. This has been done over and over in this ideal period, despite all the promises, despite all the conclusions of the national meetings, the promises for elections, and the like. A senator pointed out regarding a health minister's declaration following the medical debate on the increase in money in the health system. This is the situation. First - grade health systems are not being put in first place. On the other hand, what does the senator think is the priority of these governments?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u178	Hv. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson has become a health expert. I notice that he has become an expert in the resolutions of the Independence Party. I don't know how good reading is for a young senator to be too busy with such cops. I choose to live my life by other means than there, but I agree with this. We're here to set priorities for the health system. Nothing has shown as much harmony with the national soul as a metropolitan survey. A senator last year, where 91.4% of the people seemed to agree. What matters, I think, in this is, how will men separate themselves from this matter? Let's just say that this bill will be approved and the law won't be met before July 1. Then there's a procedure. and he follows this formula, which is terrible. I predict that this will lead to a search for a subject by health professionals who are specialized. Just as doctors did, they will let the world-wagers. And this leads to immediate progress, just as a surgeon warns in his memo that there will be people in these articles, and we are creating problems permanently. And how's the top? Ministers of health, prime ministers, and what are their names, how will they respond? In other words, I'm not saying that it's like pissing in your shoe, but it's a short-looking condom. Even if the dispute is solved by force, it will create so much dissatisfaction and grief, a sadness in those in the other end that it will lead to the best people of the best age just to look away.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u179	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson for his speech and particularly for the way he reviewed various figures that are relevant in this context, e.g. The proportion of state affairs required for health care so that we could compare ourselves with the other northern nations and have a comparable welfare or health system in some way, as well as the rise in the other populations that have been established in the past year. When addressed to doctors, much emphasis was placed on the importance of the medical system and the willingness to strengthen and improve it. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he has any explanation for what happened to his will. Why can't he be seen in a chicken interview right now? This desire was at the discretion of the doctors, but it does not seem that there is already an agreement with other classes that also operate in the health system and, of course, other classes. It's mostly comparison between the health groups I'm predicting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u180	Mr. President. I was shocked when the declaration was made on January 5th. Under it, five men signed. It was between the government and the governor of the National Hospital and the National Medical Association of Iceland. This document, which has eight teams, walks the good class of doctors like a red thread. I am grateful to God for any man who wants to give himself to medicine because it is an indispensable class, but there are some other classes that in modern high - tech health society are just as vital. For example, doctors do not operate unless nurses are available, and neither of them operates on certain non - radiologists. None of these classes work without biologists. Thus, the wheel of the tooth spins, working in the complex health - care community of our day, starting with one tooth wheel to interlock. Together, it's all made up. Today, this has created one of the best health systems in the country. But if one of the teeth is not anointed, then all the others will walk stiffly, too. That's what matters. I felt that this statement, as I wrote on my website in my time, was in the most intense joy. A health minister, like a wet barrel in the face of other classes that work in the hospital. I have no explanation for this other than the one who's been in the country and we've always fought, at least The two of us, that it is as though the women's classes were much less esteemed. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I can't read from this but a systematic prejudice in which, unfortunately, my kind of attitude is expressed, but not all of us are as happy in these matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u181	Mr. President. I'm afraid I will. A senator is right in this case, that it is simply that women's jobs are less assessed in terms of pay. I have found that it is possible to read from the discussion that is being appealed to women's human kindness and conscience when it comes to ensuring the health and safety of the people of the land, but their efforts to work are not valued in terms of men's wages. Because of it. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson is a man of great experience, I'd like to ask him here in answer to a statement under Article 3. This bill. To me, it looks as if it has already been written into the law that the conclusions made or, at least, within the narrow framework of a sentence can be determined. Although it may be considered to take into account the qualifications of those who may be considered to be comparable in education or employment or employment hours, agreements that have been signed for the last one and a half months can be considered only. I'm asking, is this the custom? Is it customary for a strike law to be passed and judgment is discussed with them as a formula to determine what conclusions they may reach in their jobs? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u182	Mr. President. If you breathe the contents of Section 3. it says, in effect: The result of the procedure should be as close to the results of a contract of a general labour market during the day as possible. I never remember that sort of thing. I remember and have even participated in it under special circumstances, at least Once, putting laws after a two - year noncontraction between sailors, but I never remember it being in such a way that it was directly given a formula for which agreements should be considered primarily as examples. But I won't cross over it because it happened, I don't remember it. Usually this is so that the most tenacious of women or men in a court of law come to a conclusion based on justice and fairness of heart. That's the way it's supposed to be. It's totally set up what's going on here. Of course, this is tragic. Another factor is that economic stability is to be maintained. All of us agree, but sir faithful, here we are writing this into law three days after the Supreme Court. A financial minister promoted a new hope filler in the Icelandic nation by praising it in the past on tax declines. He chose to do the very day that the bank manager almost promised or threatened after an event of a raise raise to prevent the effects of the induction. We can see this happening. This is incredible. I'm surprised at these paradoxs in the government's lawsuit. For a long time, I thought that the Independence Party was trustworthy in not making such a talk, perhaps because I'm so young, but the independence party is failing all my hopes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u183	A respectable president. Earlier today, the administrative body was very aggressive in asking for an evening meeting here. Then they voted on it, and the government voted against it, but it was pushed through in the force of more part of our meeting tonight. In other words, the government decides to present today with the legalization of strikes, the legalization of certain groups in the community, and the exercise of evening meetings. What happens then is that here's a national game, which is great, and I wish I were at that national game, but I just can't because I'm at work, and then the media shows up pictures of the world's highest level. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. The minister of finance is showing great disrespect to the council and to us who are working here, as well as to the groups whom they are going to take the right to strike because they are there, but we are here. [[The president calls.]] We don't even get a lunch break. We've had to go ahead and get something to eat. This is not acceptable, and these men are showing disrespect to the council and to us over and over again, and I believe that there is a need to deal with that conversation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u184	President. In my simple mind, I thought that the government's point of view, the highest. Secretary of the budget and the highest. Prime Minister, would be preparing less contracts for the end of the council. But no, they put in a bill that's arbitrary, lay laws on strikes in the morning, upset the council and the people on the middle of the day, and then go to a soccer game at night while we're discussing a very serious case, as the more you look at it, the more fearful you will be because this law is more dangerous. It's clear that we have to do everything we can, the whole House, including the major members of Congress, to correct the faults of the law bill and I hope that the very few members of the body who have been here listened to our appeals, which are finding new and new nuances of it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u185	A respectable president. Now's the time. paritaprevir Bogi of Hafliðason, starting to count back to the conference hall. We sat at a meeting earlier, which was very pleasant, not pleasant, but illuminating. [[Upwards: good.]] [[The point is: He would have had to be on him too.]] Yes, I suppose it would have been good for a member of the council to have been and to be the highest. Minister here on the side waiting for the case to end, i.e. 1st. Of course, such behavior is unacceptable. This makes you feel when you started to barbecue at night here after it ended. [[Exactly.]] It's such a feeling they're offering people. I am not entirely convinced that nurses or other health - care professionals could afford to go to the national game, but it would not surprise me if the rest of the people mentioned here received an invitation. But that's different. I don't think it's appropriate for you to ask for an evening meeting. This is a serious matter. They're taking over the strike rights and a lot more than that, and it's going to show up tomorrow at a meeting of the General and Education Committee how serious this is. I'm not sure that all members of Congress are aware of the kind of rights they are taking from people as they appear in the written text.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u186	It's directed to the president. Councilmen mention other causes. Senators, full name.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u187	That's what I said, Hafliðason.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u188	A respectable president. How tragic it is when we see that those who are most concerned with getting this through at night meetings don't even let so little of it be here and discuss the matter! Nor have men come here and argue the matter sufficiently correct. We have called upon the Ministers to show us what kind of plans they have for the development of the health system, to look for a longer time. No, they prefer to be in the short term. These laws indicate that humans look only to a shorter time. The risk is that in the long run, this will lead to a lack of enough people around here to live under our good health. We have health care professionals on a worldwide scale that can work anywhere in the world. We must therefore be careful that their equipment and wages are competitive in what happens elsewhere. It's not like today, it's just not like that. Then these people are being treated disrespectfully, but first these groups, prior to this legislation, were put on strike for up to ten weeks. They were hardly talked to because the agreement had been handed over to the work community. They always said, "Hey, we're waiting for the general labour market. Those were the answers. A respectable president. This legal bill also shows that the conversation was formal. They did not intend to reach any conclusion with them. In one way or another, they were going to leave what was agreed on in general markets to government employees. I must say exactly as it is, most respectable president, that, of course, this is not going to work. This bill confirms that government workers were never supposed to be negotiated. Nothing was meant to be done. What we also see in this bill is the reference date, i.e. Based on this, it is stated that the procedure should take into account what has happened in the labour market after May 1 of the past. It also says that government workers were never to be negotiated. The same should apply to them. They plan to try to shove it down their throats in any way, in any way, and now by law, to get what was approved in a general labour market. It would have been just as possible, as someone put it, to write the collective agreement agreed on the market in the bill instead of having some showyness and write it the date of these contracts. It is most reasonable to aim at this session of negotiations and return the date to January 1. It's a lot more natural to aim at that time because it would just as well have been possible to write a bargain and set laws there because there's no room. What bothers me also in this matter, as others have done, is the combination of a procedure. It is important that the issue be changed so that the party can appoint its representatives. Besides, I have to mention what I'm sorry about all of this too. It is as if the decision has already been made to apply for government employees as well as for the general labour market when it comes to the rise itself. Is it not normal, then, that we have been asked, too, that we look at the amount and try to equal the pay of those who are in the general labour market and public servants when it comes to experts? There is something that you need to look at, and you also need to look at the quarters of that subject. Finally, I'm going to say this, a respectable president: The low-respect that is being shown to those groups who have been on strike for ten weeks is complete on the part of this government. No one deceives people into thinking that there was some silent conversation and that they were trying to meet these groups all the time. At the same time, men cannot dismiss responsibility and say: We are going to take into account what happens in the general market, wait for what happens there, and then arrive 15 minutes after they have a law on the conflict and write almost to the collective agreements adopted in the general labour market. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I don't want anyone to tell me that the state meant something with these talks.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u189	President. I have to admit, I'm shocked. I am struck by the trend in my country, and I am sorry to read this bill to read the rules of social society in a particular union of colleges and Icelandic nurses. What may hit me most is that it is said to be some sort of recession of a strike, but here it is laying laws on a strike and forbiding certain groups of public employees to have this right. The design and decision of a crime is one of the most arbitrary things I have ever seen at the General Assembly. I wondered who could have thought of writing like this. I expect it wasn't the Minister who's representing this case at the council. Agricultural minister, for it is evident that there has been a long period of time. We kept asking about it at meetings with the officials of the administrations about how this appointed minister would handle the matter, for of course it is rather under prime minister, where these classes of public employees are heard under many different departments. Normal management would have been at the top. The prime minister would have recommended the bill, but I suppose he was too busy to play soccer tonight to do what is, of course, even more surprising, considering the seriousness of the situation. What's truly reprehensible is how you try to get out of the calculus of professional agreements made with doctors. In the 3rd. it shows that the decision of a formality should be based on agreements signed from May 1 this year. The agreements that have not yet been signed and do not involve public employees and doctors or high school teachers, which would have been more reasonable when creating a model for the ideal classes to be discussed. I think it's very ugly to do this, especially in view of the fact that the BHM strike has lasted more than ten weeks and if bodies act -- you'll have to excuse me for having a bit of a confusing conversation with me, I'm so tired because we're always working at a very irregular time at this workplace. Us senators have experience trying to negotiate with exactly the same parties as the members of the BHM and members of the FIH have been trying to negotiate, and it's done extremely little, because it's just that those people who should have talked to BHM are expected to be the best. Secretary of the budget and the highest. Prime Minister, for example, who have done little to reach contracts for the end of the council. On the other hand, they always come in here with very high hopes that everyone will do what they want, but in reality, they do little to meet the demands of the entire minority of the council. There were 22 meetings that did not exactly work because it was found that government negotiators had no authority. In this way, we have also experienced it here, members of the Board of Directors of the Government, which means members of the Parliament, have had enormous authority to negotiate with the other members of the council, i.e. Class presidents of my section. As I look at these laws, I look at the overall picture, and I look at the sad picture of our health system. Our health system is a mess. We warned of the massive surgery that occurred in the health system during the last term. I remember meetings I sat on as I sat on a budget seat. I remember those who had to be glued to the health system, such as those from our big hospital, who were so distressed when they met the committee that they almost had tears in their eyes about how they were going to meet the demands of surgery then. The cutting has not been corrected, and at the same time, there has been a massive collapse in the power of commercial power because the nation's loans have changed in a very short time following the collapse. Similarly, the buyfulness of the salary has not remained in the hands of what might be considered normal in some professions. As you look at these systems, many of which are very large and complex, you see that a medical emergency, such as those with health care professionals, has caused us to have a button that we do not seem to be able to unsaid. More doctors are missing in many places, which means that there will be a substantial cost in the system because the first stop is usually at health care professionals before expensive treatments are used. And now we've got a gimmick. By setting laws, and specifically - I'm sorry, and I'm asking other BHM members who have been working hard to excuse the fact that I'm just talking about the health system, but I'm afutira's on it here. There is a tremendous emergency. I realize, for example, that the other BHM partners are in pain, and the difficult loans of study have been a heavy yoke on the unions who have been involved in a strike. The gimmick we see is becoming some kind of black hole. It's based on the reality that we have no incentive for people to learn and work in the health sector here, we have no motivation for people to work in Iceland. You see a steady contrast between the status of the health - care providers of Iceland who have moved, for example, Norway and the rest of Iceland. Usually, people have families in Iceland, and it's hard to leave because of their extended family. But then there are many I've heard over the years, through the years I've been to the council, who have been thinking about going but are now determined to leave. What, then, are we going to do? What will we do if we do not have anyone to look after our sick people or those who suffer accidents? What, then, are we going to do? So, are we going to send all the patients in private, or are we going to fly straight to Norway? Is it reasonable to build on wood? Is it stable? What are we going to do when our people leave? We are now seeing the other escape wave from Iceland after the collapse. There's a clear new wave, a lot of people leaving, especially Norway. How will we encourage people to remain in Iceland, people who have been educated, who have worked hard to work in caring for and nursing, in order to work as nuclearists or doctors? We've been able to hold on to the doctors for now. They were greatly improved in their terms. Doctors were on a strike for quite a long time, but nurses have been very brief in a strike, and this has already given rise to legalization of their strike. It tells you how important nurses are to our health care system, and it's clearly the staff that the government values little, obviously. I don't think it's possible to accept these laws as they do with the date of May 1, 2015. I challenge the agreed General Committee to change the date of January 1, 2015, then these totalitarian laws would immediately be better. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that this will not solve long - term problems when it comes to escape from certain national professions. I challenge the General Assembly all, all of us, to first lay the foundation for a new health system, a foundation based on the public demand that the budget be established as a health priority. It's the kind of budget that the public prefers us to take first place, and it's our responsibility to do so. We're having a share in drinking in Iceland and paying taxes to have free health systems here, not a private health system that I know is the wet dream of many right men, but not all I hope. Let's face the fact that the procedure is already privateization of the health system. It seems that it is sincere resolve to hollow the system so that it cannot survive, so that it can be cut down and put here on a much greater privatization. That's why I'm so worried. [["Private friendship."]] Privacy, exactly. Senator. I'm so worried. I'm worried about the example this government gives here. As mentioned in the case of the highest. The minister of finance feels that it is time for him to stop with strikes, to be out of fashion, or not to fit in with the spirit of the age. There are a lot of right men against strikes, I've heard them talking to. Then I want to ask, and I think it's important that we ask ourselves, " What shall we do instead? ' How can we provide both government employees and employees in the private sector with the right to gain a decent salary for our work?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u190	There was one question in my mind. I have listened to most of the talks here today, and in a single word, people talk about excellent health systems but to collapse, and we want a new one. This does not mix, and it does apply in itself to the whole discussion and to the general health system. But I'd like to ask - Yes, I heard her, why. þm. Össur's ass, and he listened with interest. [[So you haven't listened to my speech.]] [[Top of the hall, first-class.]] But I'd like to ask what. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir's daughter, for I know that Porta's democracy is very great, and I began to consider the order of arbitration. There are three strategists, who say the court - we expect to consider the court's authority as a neutral party in all cases. Suppose we set a sentence with one party from each side of the issue, the state, and BHM or Nurses, and then one neutral party, such as the standard order of action. Then I'll start thinking about the authority we're putting in the hands of this one person and the democracy behind it. But because the senator was talking about the general health system, it certainly is not without blemish because she quoted the problem of ordering medical physicians. Eight years had been advertised by a medical doctor at Thors Harbor, he's not here yet, so it's in itself true, there's a number of things to consider. For example, consider mental - health services in Northern countries. If you are 17 years old and need help with psychiatric problems, it's just really hard to find out, but as soon as you're 18, you're in a mental ward. I had this one question regarding the order of a procedure. And then, naturally, the solution to a better system. Of course, it's how we get the people to continue living in Iceland, it must be by choosing Pirata.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u191	President. Yeah, welcome to Pirata. I thank the senator for this campaign speech for Pirata, it's a pleasure. But I'd like to say about the crime, it's very important that the court has set down a specific basis and it's found in the bill. [[The Senator leaves the platform.]] It doesn't matter who's in the project. It's the decision of a court, and I encourage the senator to listen carefully: The Court shall decide on the pay of the members of the Member State. 1st par. and their other responsibilities reflect on the benefits of those which can be considered comparable to education, jobs, hours of work and responsibilities and, depending on events, collective contracts signed from May 2015 and general development of the labour sector. At the same time, the decision to make decisions should be made to ensure that economic stability is maintained. - Which I don't quite understand. Hence, it does not matter who is involved in arbitration because a court order has been told what to do. I'm not saying that I don't trust anyone who's going to sit in a court of law, but what it says on a legal bill. That's my core criticism of this procedure in this council case. This is shown in Leviticus. The bill. (b) What questions will be considered in the next article? ▪ When the workers gather for some aspect of the dispute, without wanting to make a decision, the court will consider the decision, but it will still have its own free hands on the matter. It has been shown that the procedure is, in fact, enforcing the will of the State on this matter but is not a neutral reconciliation committee, so I think it's a bit important to keep it in mind, and it really has nothing to do with Pirata's policy of doing about transparency.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u192	The president would like to state that they are not expected to do so. In the middle of a talk, members of the council abandoned the platform. The president would also like to state that the matter is Icelandic.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u193	Madam President. Yes, I asked the senator because that's the will of the senator, I think if I understand correctly, trying to order as objective a sentence as possible. No, okay, then maybe it's not like that. Then I'll let that answer do it, but - [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u194	The president was about to point out that the matter of Congress was Icelandic.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u195	Well, then let's stick with it. I will, however, end the talk so that I am moved to come to this talk chair to announce that I was not enrolling in Pirata, just to be thought of.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u196	President. I'm sorry I broke the council's rules here by running out of the chair to get the bill. I don't know what to answer the senator's answer because I don't sense a question, but I'd like to encourage again and again members of the council to be open to fixing this bill because there's a problem and even a possibility that it involves some experiment that those who are involved in this enterprise can't resign if there are many in one profession who intend to do so. I sincerely wish that you would listen well - You guys talk so loud, my God. Why doesn't the President ever make a comment about all this harm inside the councilroom? [[The president calls.]] What? You can't be expected. Yes, therefore, I would like to encourage the General Board to listen very carefully to the members of this particular law. I have heard of their comments, and I think it is also very important that we, as a council, respond to the emergency conditions these laws will bring, especially in the health profession. It is already urgent that we also offer suggestions on how we are going to blow off the great problem that has been building up here for a year.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u197	The president would also like to state why. Senators are indiscriminate to be called in or speaking in a chamber, and I would like to beg everyone. Councilmen to keep that in mind in the Senate Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u198	A respectable president. Somehow I didn't know how to say hello to a team for the President's conference board, but I have to say that I'm a little curious, and I'd like to ask if it's the highest level. The president can explain when I have finished my talk whether the foreign language here should have been spoken or, as it were, whether a president's criticism was due to the word Šóke. I'm just wondering because I didn't hear exactly what it was that wasn't Icelandic, but I think it was a word. I'd love to get it straight when it's at the top. The president may be after this speech. We'll discuss this strike order, which is the fourth in two years. First of all, when it comes to strike, it conflicts with the basic public interest or, rather, because, first of all, we are required to establish a partnership with the freedom of the Constitution and with the right that men have to negotiate for the price and price. It is the right not to walk on unless it is for the sake of the greater good. And then, of course, the burden of evidence is always with authorities who want to ban the strike action, that's always the way it is. In the three strikes that have been banned earlier in this season, there has been much disagreement on their legal rights because it has not been established whether there has been enough serious public interest in banning action. I'm not going to trace it to any particular extent anymore, but it's about in this relationship that if anyone says that in this case the most important public interest is involved, I'd like to first say that according to the Social Nurses Association, it's not, because there's arrangements, it's given in distress to keep it out of need so that it's not a medical emergency. So it is expected, and there are always some nurses working in times of emergency, and this is done in particular to meet the fact that it cannot cost a person's life. Everyone must agree on that. What we should also consider when this is the case is not only the legal requirement of banning this particular strike, for even if we are able to settle a question with the conclusion that it was morally legitimate or that there was a law against a constitution, then there is another question that we also need to ask ourselves and answer: Is that reasonable? Will this lead to the end of the crisis? You see, I don't think so. I think that if we forbid this strike, however legitimate as we can convince ourselves that it is, it will simply lead to vital staff resigning and either working on something else or simply moving abroad. There was here a protester today, a respectable president, who I noticed was wearing the sign of the Kingdom Hall of God Norge. Hi, Norway, if I get it. And that, of course, means that the situation in this community has become a reality, so he doesn't like to be in the country because he knows or thinks he will never get enough benefit to survive in our good country. Please note that this is a rational question, this is not a legal question, that is a rhythmic question, a question of what is wise to do in order to achieve goals. I assume, most respected president, that the intended goal is to maintain a high - quality health system. This is clearly the way the people view things and they have a very clear view, and they should not surprise anyone, show it, and describe what the health system really is like, and begin with the State's greatest justice in Iceland. In a larger context and a longer story, the defenses of the land are a state of justification. But in view of the concerns people in general need to have in everyday life, it is clearly the most important health system, which, according to the opinion of an overwhelming majority of the population. It's very clear, it's totally obvious. In view of the fact that there is left over in the state's funds and the fact that they are going to make taxes, and considering that recently the so - called corrections, I don't feel that it is convincing that people don't want to raise this money for fear of how it affects the economy. If they were afraid of it, they should probably not be in taxes and debts at the same time. As far as I can see, it has the same economic impact. The only difference is the size scale. I don't talk about any kind of person who doesn't want the system to be overheated but also at the same time that they need to give them some injection, I think that all of this is very confusing, considering how the priorities are supposed to be here. It should be in the interests of the health care system. I don't see any disagreement on that. Because of these reasons, I don't approve of making these laws. This is both because I don't think it's still necessary for the most important public interest. It can be disputed, certainly, but the burden of evidence is with the authorities themselves. It may be that later on in this matter, I might be convinced of it, but then it is after I don't think it's a reasonable solution, it's not a solution. This deepens the problem, making the problem harder and harder to deal with. I think it's definitely inevitable when it comes to this. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the damage is, in part, done by giving this bill. Just because we're at this place has caused quite a bit of damage. Nurses are resigning, and they are expected to resign to a greater extent in the very near future, probably immediately on Monday. There is a serious situation, and it is the result of this bill, a direct consequence of this bill. So from a rhythmful point of view, I don't approve of this, even if it was just that, I just don't think that this is gonna solve the problem. In my opinion, and I realize that the senators do not negotiate with these parties, they must increase the pay of these people. If it takes a small inflation, it just has to be. Of course not if she's completely wild and crazy, it has to be evaluated somehow, but at least I don't see that the approval of this bill will solve the problem, nor does it seem to me that the negotiations that have already been done a lot of good, so it's a scary situation. Of course, it would have been good if we had talked about this earlier, as they were asking for a very, very long time, and then they complained that we were asking for it. We members of the smaller section stood here in the public speaker's office, demanding to discuss the quarreling at the time. I think there would have been some improvement in the ability to discuss how we're going to have these issues for the future, except, of course, that we're all better off in the way these negotiations have been arranged so far. Sadly, though, it was decided by the highest power. To discuss a frame plan in return, as we have so often complained. I'm not going to count it here much more. However, if this bill is to be fixed, no matter what it is that it may be, I would like to suggest that it takes a few adjustments. They've been ripped here before, I don't have a complete list of the ones that need to be laid in, but what matters in my opinion is the most important thing, and that's the date, the date, the reference date on which dress contracts should be targeted. The bill says it's May 1. Of course, that was after a contract with doctors earlier in the year. In my opinion, it has to be brought to all the way to January 1 so that there may be some possibility of making a verdict other than what the State has proposed in the dress code itself. Otherwise, i.e. If the bill goes through the way it is now, it's simply a legislation on the offer the state has offered. It's like you're making a deal with someone, okay, you want something, you don't offer him something, you don't do it, but it's a law: now just eat what you're invited, whatever's out, whatever's on the table. And that's not gonna work, Mr. Honorable President. I think it's a terrible place to put people in, I must say. In the 3rd. The bill is, in effect, specified that the members of the group here should be making a deal with each other simply eating up what the State wants. It's not a negotiation. In fact, I don't like the personal, respectable president, the overuse of the word "violence," I think it's too much used in both this pontta and more in the community, but it certainly reminds you of violence. It is certainly possible to consider that this will put the other person in the negotiations into the position that he can't do anything, he has no choice. Of course, there's a lot of violence when people don't get caught up, they'll just take it, and that's it, and there's nothing more. So these dates are important. Depending on what to do, this is important. Most of all, I'd like to rip off a suspect I have, which I've tore up here before it comes to health care. He is that there is no special desire to have the public health system so much that there is no room for personal enjoyment. I am deeply concerned that although it may not be conscious among those who oppose or feel that the combination is too high, they simply do not care much more about publicizing the health system than if the private health care system was not working well. Even if it isn't, I hope, of course, that I'm wrong with him, let's just assume that it does not look the way it is. When it comes to the health system, which I once again repeat, is first of all the things that the Icelandic nation demands in our priorities, it is our duty to persuade this nation by making it necessary for us to keep the health system in order. We know it's not okay, we know it's a crisis, we're not supposed to accept it, and if it costs money, we're supposed to pay them money. We have room for that, in my opinion, we have no choice. I reiterate that I realize that this is not the General decision, but what Generalis's decision is how it is. That's why we were supposed to discuss it here earlier and longer as it was actually suggested at the time; I'm not going back to the point again. But no matter what personalisation, against the consumption, against the Constitution or the general public interest, I would like to reiterate that no matter what justification is involved, this is not a solution, a respectable president, this is not a solution. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u199	V.E.G. President. A number of interesting points were presented in the Sermon on the Mount. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson's son. First of all, he does not consider himself a public interest in this matter. I'd like to ask the senator, because there are findings and assessments of surgeons and others that there are life and parts at risk, as well as that permanent damage to the health system for a very long time could be the result of this, and I'm amazed if they believe that under these circumstances there are no public interest at stake: when can they be on the side of public interest? Hv. paritaprevir The Hrafn Gunnarsson's shrine also stated that although people considered that there were public interests at stake, he did not consider this to be a reasonable solution, adding: If it takes inflation to increase the pay of these people in BHM, it must only be kept. [[Up front.]] How do people approach the public interest? The fact that inflation is minimal is important to the entire nation. And everybody knows that, right? paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, that inflation will not improve the benefit of those who are paralyticd by the health system in order to get better health. I can't help being able to get close to this kind of thing. I can totally understand that they believe that these people should be paid more than others, and they'll do less for the others. [[The president calls.]] All right. But the public interest is light.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u200	A respectable president. I said, "If it's gonna cost a little inflation, it's just gonna have to be. " I'll keep it. Of course, inflation is not fixed size, there is a difference between 1% of inflation and 10% inflation and 100% inflation, just as with taxes. I might as well have said, if it takes some taxes, it's just gonna have to be. And what? A senator could have taken the exact same speech here, saying: Yes, but more taxes, everyone suffers. Yes, but a slight tax increase is not the same as an excessive tax increase, inflation is not the same as high inflation. I know exactly what inflation does to society, but it's after Iceland's population is set up in all groups of both sexes, all sexes rather, and at all ages, they want to put the health system first. We're not doing that. I consider it a bit of a fact, a respectable president, and if it costs us a little taxes, then it must have it. If it's gonna cost us a little inflation, then it's just gonna have to, yeah. Speaking of which, inflation. I'd have had more time to get into the inflation factor in this too. Now it seems that this government has totally rejected the European Union and will not consider any other currency of the Icelandic crown. I've mentioned in the past that if what comes with the idea of holding in the Icelandic crown, trying to keep in this currency policy is to make sure that certain groups of the community never get enough raise, then there's no money policy. Unfortunately, I don't have time to discuss it here seriously, perhaps in another discussion. But this happens every time we talk about raises in Iceland. The pay must not be increased because inflation takes place. It's because of the crown that I think it is, and I think it is. A senator, too, will correct me if I am wrong. But we cannot always use it as an excuse not to raise our salary. We cannot do so because, in the same way, we say that we are not going to raise the lowest amount of money.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u201	V.E.G. President. I'm not going to talk to you about it. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson on currency or inflation or anything like that. I'm mostly wondering, " We're in a position. ' We have a strike, here are life and members in danger, which we value more than anything in this country, don't we? If not now, when is the prerequisite for this? The other possibility, of course, is: We just apply perfectly to the demands of those who have a strike. Hv. A senator is likely to say that we are simply to meet that requirement fully. [[Up front.]] Everyone's been talking to. No, this isn't an acceptable language, my knowledge of it. Then you should just say, " Whatever the cost, no matter what the cost of inflation, small or large, no matter how this affects the whole community. ' Everyone knows, of course, that's not going to work. So let's just take this case out of the public interest, they're obvious. Then we can see what can be done in general for the people in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u202	A respectable president. I simply did not say that it does not matter how much inflation would result from such agreements. I told you if it took a small price, it's just gonna have to have it. You can't always use inflation as an excuse not to raise your salary, that's what I'm trying to say. Also, a review by Icelandic nurses suggests that it is an exception, that there is an exception in need. There is a whole process around us to make sure that life and members are not at stake. [[Up front.]] I also said in a talk that I am prepared to change my mind, that I can change my mind after this discussion. It's a 1st. Of the three, committee work takes place after this meeting, and I'm on that committee, okay? A top-of-the-art Board of Education, so there's no way out of this. But there is always the burden of evidence on the shoulders of someone who wants to violate rights, such as social freedom, and that knows why. A senator would be able to give a long, good, beautiful talk about all of this, that the burden of evidence must be at the official level in this case. As I said in my speech, I fully understand the argument that this is an urgent need and I respect that point of view, it may be the right thing to do, a respectable president. [[Up front.]] This will only be seen as the discussion unfolds. But even if we assume that this is essential, that this is justified, and that is what I was most trying to do in my speech, a respectable president, it is not a reasonable solution. That's what I'm saying. This will not undo any damage already done or will be done to me. This is unwise even if it is legal, which I just say is not settled yet. We're on 1st. and I am entitled to change my mind or mind rather than to allow the authorities to shoulder the burden of evidence that all of us must insist upon being fulfilled on any kind of freedom or rights or freedoms of the people of the land.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u203	Madam President. It's already late at night, and it's both the highest. A minister and former president of the National Law Association of Iceland may be able to get to the bottom of the matter. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I think it's a very powerful word for luck. paritaprevir The armoury of the son of Níelsson, when he was pampering to the good pira, ere. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, and holding him some lecture on inflation. Yes, sir, true, it is not. A senator just returned from a meeting at Valhalla with his chairman, who was directly held in order to encourage the expectation that the citizens of this country could expect the tax healers? If not for such creation, what is likely to contribute to inflation and inflation? Hv. A senator who is responsible and well cared for more than mere philosophy must agree with me. He nods it for approval. There are a few questions I have to ask the highest degree. Minister. There aren't many of them, but I'd like to get it straight why the highest. The minister of agricultural and marine eco-efficiency presents this matter. When you read 1st paragraph. are listed as 17 unions, and two are partly related to it, Iceland's Animal Medical Association and the University of Colleges in food and nutrition. I'm asking the highest. Ministers just outside: Is it true what has been reported in the media that there was a conflict between Ministers because they refused to make the case? I repeat my compliments to the highest. Minister for the Viking revulsion he displayed. I think that's why. paritaprevir Doves of Níelsson's son, who has completely legitimate opinions about the strikes I am against, should simply say what is in his heart. His case cannot be read otherwise, so he is opposed to unions'having the right to carry on their business issues by taking advantage of the right to strike. That's exactly the point. My brother in Sweden, Persson Göran, took a reputation for such a law when he was a minister of finance. I don't think it's a success. I believe that all laws aimed at bringing an end to tragedy must be very careful. I don't think this bill will pass any test. I can totally agree with the argument that under certain circumstances laws are inevitable when life and members and possibly a very high economic interests exist. Hv. paritaprevir The Brynjar of Níelsson's son referred to the fine surgeon's memo, but what does he finally say? It's not published in the report. He fears that even if it smells like the law, it will not be the end of the system, it will need to continue talking to prevent the system from continuing to collapse. The Constitution offers freedom of agreement and, therefore, considerable protection from strike rights. There have been judgments both at home and abroad that say that this protection is just as rich today as 2 mg. 1 1. The European Convention on Human Rights and It presents specific conditions. I wondered if the opposite of these laws, which are all kinds of societies where there truly are neither life, limb, nor economic interests, can arise. I'm afraid, Madam President, if any part of the law doesn't fit, they're all dead. I'm afraid that if this is to be done, it could lead to disaster. For example, some chaos is being prevented, or public interest is being given by placing laws on an actor's trade union, on the Symphony's employees, in the library experts, and possibly on social advisers in some circumstances. I could list a few societies and I could conclude that in court this will not stand. On the basis of a judicial hearing, an interpretation of international commitments, and so on at home, I'm just referring to the 2002 decision, the ASI case and the state, and I'm not sure that all of this works out, even if it works. þm. Hermaphs, Brynjar's son, were right about the medical professions. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u204	A respectable president. I was going to take this opportunity to answer it. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson, in which he directed one or two questions to me, to answer them, and also to use the opportunity to thank for this discussion today. I remind you, nobody's taking the strike rights off. It's always a tough decision. We're turning this into a stream where people can negotiate in the next two weeks and even if people come together, they have six weeks inside the Law to find solutions to offer what seems good. I certainly hope that the deadline will be used by these people, the negotiation committees, and all the agents involved in this case, to work out a mutual solution because it is the preferred way. I wanted to ask you why. A senator may have felt that an emergency had to be settled because he here referred to the surgeon's statement that governments have now become obliged to act in one way or another. Does he not consider an emergency in the health system and elsewhere, such as food production, animal choice, legal field, etc.? But because of him. A senator turned that inquiry to me why I was making this case here in my introduction that at least four of the department's services were involved. It's a common bill of government. Also, it was the government's common decision to assign me to have history. I think that explains everything. This is a serious matter that the government will take together. I want to ask you why. A senator will agree that there is a serious situation in the community, and we will no longer be able to see it without taking any action. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u205	Madam President. I believe that the government would not be judged for a violation of the Constitution or a violation of the European Convention, although at some point it considered it to be the driving force for legal action to bring an end to medical professions. On the other hand, I believe that it is a serious matter in what way things are happening today. I'm not questioning that there's a serious situation in the health sector. Let us see how that situation came about. What was it like when the BHM strike started? I didn't show them the highest. The government was completely clear that it had no intention of negotiating. What was the situation then? V.E.G. The minister of finance was in Florida. The chairman of the Convention Committee was in Myanmar. Many days passed before a meeting could be arranged. A royal heir then at the end of his career publicly declared it, and he had never done it before that it would be futile to assemble meetings because the State had shown nothing. In substance, that was what he said. I believe that the government has not intended to negotiate, and knowing intelligence has put the matter in this dilemma and has intended to complete it with some sort of legalization, in which the union union unions that are underneath would basically be expedient to take more and less bloodely the results of collective labour agreements. That's what I think, and that's what I've said before. Besides, thank you very much. Minister for honesty, to make it absolutely clear, to bear iron to the king, and to pray for others of the highest degree. Ministers close to them did not put into it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u206	A respectable president. I reiterate that this was a joint decision of the government, since the common bill of all Ministers and of various aspects of our community. Simply put, humans have talked a lot about the methodology of collective agreements. I think most people would agree that the methodology we've recently seen is not something that we want to see develop even further in that direction. People have talked quite much about looking at the Norwegian model, tried it last year. Some weeks ago, Spegil's excellent reports spoke with both Danish and Norwegian colleagues, which described the way this is done. It can first determine what competitiveness the country can earn, whether it will rise, or whether it needs to be reduced. Danes found out that the key is to protect jobs. From what is since the public market and then a year later comes the public market and receives 80% of what has been produced in the public market. They don't turn down as much as the others do. Danin said the public market, the competitive market, has to lay the line. It must never be that the public market will be the person who makes the country's pay changes. I guess most people agree on this methodology, but it's a long way from our arrival. The need to put laws on a strike is far too heavy. Of course, you hope that the parties will use the time that is now created to solve the problem. Ten weeks has been negotiated. It didn't work out. The government suggested a covenant committee. The members rejected it. We then live, we cannot watch the health system in the position the surgeon has described it and other aspects of society. Hence, this temporary emergency is addressed in the hope that, of course, the problem will be resolved within the time they have. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u207	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son may present a logic test for members of the council he is speaking to from the Generals' symposium. I'm pretty afraid on a test of the dog. paritaprevir Brubbur the Brynjar of Níelsson was the best. Ministers have fallen like flying birds who have been hit by a bullet. I agreed with that as the highest. A minister said when describing the best way to see the contract process. I'm a North American soci order that it now releases a nerve at the highest level. Minister, too. We agree on this. When I'm at the highest. A minister says that it is undesirable for the official sector to rip the results of contracts on a public market, my lord the Animal. What was it like here? So it began with the government literally starting in its first six weeks to negotiate a 25% rise - to who? Specialists. Then came other doctors, who pointed out the experts and received 30%. [[Up front.]] High school teachers came in there somewhere in the meantime. A member of the hall can tell us how much they were given. Madam President. So these are experts, public employees, doctors, public employees, and high school teachers, as well as public employees. What was the basis for high pay requirements in the last month's public contracts? The deal with these three classes. V.E.G. A minister would have done better than cross the Norwegian model a little earlier in his career. None of the above. Secretary says that if the government is in part, this government has followed. That's why we're in this position. It was the highest. A government that spread those expectations.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u208	V.E.G. President. Because of what? paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aphrodin son, who likes to stir me up in the speaker's place, asked me their questions if I considered these classes to have a right to the head to strike, I'd like to say that I value this right, but I also insist that it be handled properly. I'm having a very hard time understanding that, huh? paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson, that groups that made up last time and who have gained more money from those contracts, are expected to use the strike weapon at the end of the contract. So I want to ask you why. A senator: Does he feel that this is the proper use of the strike rights? Does he not agree with me that this is some kind of emergency, or does he think it is just a universal right that humans can use when they want to? The discussion has always been so that the strike court is used only in need. Is it an emergency when men insist on a one - way raise and use the strike weapon? I can't believe it. A senator agrees with the natural application of the strike weapon and the strike rights. If I feel that this is the case, I'm reimbursed whether the classes here and considered the basics of society have the right to use it in this way, as we have so far.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u209	Madam President. In itself, this is not even a question of what I think or what I have. paritaprevir Brunes the Brynjar of Níelsson. I'll take it out because of what. One senator says that I am always exasperating him to public speaking, that it's just because I like to sit at the master's show and study. He always sheds light on the complex logic of the legal system when he is at his word with us members of the Senate. But it's not a question of what I think, it's not a question of what. There's a senator. This question is, What right is the constitution? It gives a considerable amount of rights to the contract, the strike rights as well, but it does. I agree with him about that. Under certain circumstances, when life and limb are stopped and there are great economic conditions, it is clear by judicial action, and it may also be in accordance with the general perception that some of us have in this hall, that it is appropriate to complete it in some way. But then you have to look at what's happening in this place, and I don't like it very much. But then I'd like to ask. A senator: Who is he saving? What life, for example, is he saving by enforcing laws on the work of the Symphony's employees, the caste society, the Industrial Training Association, the Psychologist's Association, the library scholars? Counts 'em out. A senator that would be judged? Does he not then believe that it would have been legal and better if this had been tight and restricted only to those classes as well as to bear weight? A senator believes that it is so important that the situation is at risk, as it has developed? I think if this is to be examined in some kind of court in foreign lands, if the case goes that far, the Icelandic government will be in trouble.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u210	V.E.G. President. You're right about what you're doing. A senator, of course, that this is not about my opinion or his opinion. But I have no doubt that part of the groups here are truly public interests at stake. I can totally agree with that. There may be no public interest in the Symphony Orian Orchestra. Some might say that the nation's cultural and spiritual health would have stopped if we were not allowed to enjoy the symphony - for ten weeks, yes. [[Ten weeks?]] Where is the limit? Well, with all joking aside there might be some of these things that can't stand, if I'm supposed to put myself in legal gear, I can quite agree with that. But here we are, in principle, talking about the classes that constitute the foundation of society, people we can't really be without, employees or basics that we can't do without unless we're upset here, both life and limb, and take great economic risks. That's why I think it's perfectly clear that for most of these groups there are truly public interests at stake, but I'm not going to argue with it. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson, I'm not sure public interest is in the process of solving a strike with the symphony or games.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-12-128.u211	Madam President. Neither of us. A senator is downplaying these groups, but I took it as an example of the urgent needs that lead to legal action. I said, "Is it enough of a knot designed to defend the United States if a case, for example, will the European Court of Human Rights? ' Hv. A senator has made a statement here in these sales that he is a sort of legal Supreme Court here, and I believe that no one is ever more able to stand up for him in these materials. He saved the council better from his disgrace in the first four weeks here when the government, famous as it was, came up with a case to change the budget. She did so in such a way that it had come through 2nd. When it's low. A senator noticed that if we had agreed to do so, he would not be able to call together a council for the next thousand years, so he is now not worth very little. Senator, and maybe that's why we're here tonight. But, hey. A senator has simply said that what I was saying is true. He's not sure that it's all going to work out. Then I'd like to ask. A senator. For example, the report on this bill justifys ending operations at the county's bodies because it may affect other people's rights and may have a negative impact on the provision of products of production. A cartel? [[Up front.]] Yes, it is, but it is not that life and members are at risk. Then I'm going to point it out. A senator who knows all this better than I do is that a court of rights was raised because oil workers on drills in Norway suffered a strike. The conclusion was that even though there was a very high economic pressure that would harm Norway, and even the funding of the health system, it was stated in the court that it did not say that it was justified in breaking a strike by law, much less by the state of the county.
