ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-08-1.u1	A letter has been received by the General from the 10th. Smoke. S., Jón Þór Ólafsson, of late September 8, 2015. Now I read a letter from what happened. A senator dated in Reykjavík on September 4 of that year.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: ◯Forseti Allegis, Mr. Einar Kristinn son of Guðfinnsson. In this letter, I evangelize at the end of Council 144 on Tuesday, September 8. I thank all members of the Generals, members of Parliaments, stewards, Piranians, and the people of the country for the success and learning cooperation in the last two years. The fall is to take up the lesson and make it available to the people on the Internet. By faith in the increased protection of civil rights and the advancement of democracy in the country. You'll find me at the grass root. Sincerely Jón Þór Ólafsson, Senator 10 of the city of Reykjavík, south of the South, Virgil At the council office of Jón Þór Ólafsson, Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir takes his seat at the General Assembly and becomes the 10th. Smoke. The path to the program "umount" For this reason, I would like to thank Jón Þór Ólafsson for his work at the General Assembly. He has been in charge of Congress among other things as an officer of the presiding committee and as a member of the council member of the Parliament and thus a member of the council. I wish him success in whatever work he does. Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir has taken up residence at the General Assembly before, and I welcome her to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-08-1.u2	Borist has received a letter from the United States Parliamentary chairman of Helgi Hjörvar of the 5th. Witchest. "The Guðbjartur son of Hannesson, can't stand to be a senator in the near future. So today, a replacement of the United States Air Force list in the district of Yoninin Þorvarðardóttir Þordandótttir. Ólína the past, Olint of the Kjerúlf of Þorvarðardóttir was invited to serve again at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-08-1.u3	Borist has received the following announcement of a change in the management of the Agency's forward party: Ásmundur Einar Daðason is chairman, Egilsdóttir Eglólsdóttir is vice president, and Willum Þór Thor Þórsson is a secretary. Borist has announced a change in the rule of Congress The Future: Brynhildur Pétursdóttir is president, Páll Valur Björnsson is vice president, and Björt Ólafsdóttir is secretary. Borist has announced the following change in the head of Congress of Porta: Birgitta Jónsdóttir is president. The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson is vice president, and Áa Guðrún Helgadóttir is secretary. Borist has announced a change in the management of the Group of Nations that Valgerður Bjarnadóttir is the vice president of the Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-08-1.u4	The President has received the following announcement from a panel of independent groups of members of the Parliament, such as Article 16. Parliamentary convention: Andersen takes the seat of the Elín Hirst, a senior professional executive, the Unnur Konráðsdóttir Ríkharðsdóttir, who takes the place of the son of Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson, a vice officer of the professional road committee, Árnason Arjölllon, takes the seat Ragnheiður Ragnheððdótir as his assistant on a professional board. Brassar Níelsson takes the place of Unnur Bárdár Konráðsdóttir as the head of the Economic and Business Committee, Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, Guðlaugur Níelsson's Þór, Ásmundur FriðrikssonÞórðarson takes the seat of Unnur Andersen's Á. as his guardian of a trust, Hanna Kristjánsdóttir Kristjándótir, the Vilhjálmur of Ármannsson the Árnason, as his deputy of the budget, the Birggisman of the Yearhood, takes over Sigmardímur. Anderssen as the chief of the Board of the Board and Control. On the Board of Control. On the Heir, Elín Hirst Hínar Hís takes the chief of the Committee and chief of the Board of the Board of the Board of the Board of the Council. Hanna Kristjánsdóttir Kristjánddóttir, Birgir, Þór of Hirst, is taken as the chief member of the State Department of State, Elín Billysdótsdótir, Bruntir Haraldur, Brumur's Ragnheiður, Benediktsson Ríkharðsdóttir, takes the seat Ragnheiður Guðlaugur, the Á. of Andersen, a vice of the Council of NATon, Ásmundur, and Árnason of Þórðarson, a deputy member of the Council of the Council of the United States, a member of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the United States. These changes will be considered approved without a vote if they do not object. The President has received the following announcement from the United States of Human Change Committee, such as Article 16. Parliamentary convention: The choicer Bjarnaddóttir takes the seat of Paul the Year of the Year as the head of the Economic and Business Committee, the Abilities Páll Árnason takes the seat of the Helgi Hjörvar as an assistant to a financial and business committee, the annual Páll Árnason takes the seat of Valgerður Bjarnadóttir-up Bjarnader as the chief member of the Management Board and Control Board, and Valgerður Bjarnadóttir takes the seat of the Árni Árnason the Árnason as a vice of the Board and Control Committee. These changes will be considered approved without a vote if they do not object. The President has also received the following announcement from the United States Parliament: ▪ In view of the fact that the Þorvarðardóttir Þórðarfóður KörfðarðurHannesson, who, along with other confidentialities, represents the United States of the Council of Iceland, it is the wish of a council of the Union that, under these unusual circumstances, and due to a announcement to the Council of the North, the deputy council of the United States Hannesson the confidential work elected by Guðbjartur in charge of His government, during the past death. In part, this includes the Ólína of the line while the Northern Council of the Union is the chief. I request that the president announce this request when it is announced to the Committees for a hearing of change in committees. Helgi Hjörvar, Chairman of the United Nations Parliament. The President has received the following announcement from the left movement ◯ Greener offering for change on the committees of the Council, such as Article 16. Parliamentary convention: Katrín Jakobsdóttir's Árnadóttir takes the seat Svandís Steingrímur J. Sigfússon as the head of the Economic and Business Committee, the Stetrin Sigfússon Sigfússon takes the seat of the Sisís Savísdótir of the Economic and Business Committee, the Steinunnóttir Steinunn Jacobsdótir, the Lilja of Jakobsdóttir Jacobs, who takes the Magnúsdóttir of Þóra-Rafney-year's Árnadóttir as his assistant as a vice-authorist on the welfare committee. These changes will be considered approved without a vote if they do not object. The President has received the following announcement from the Council of Hearts of the Future on the committees of the Council, such as Article 16. Parliamentary convention: Guðmundur Steingrímsson takes the seat of Páll Valur Björnsson as the head of the General and Education Committee, Róbert Marshall takes the seat of Guðmundur Steingrímsson as his assistant to the Foreign Affairs Committee, and Páll Valur Björnsson takes Björt Ólafsdóttir as the chief member of the welfare committee. These changes will be considered approved without a vote if they do not object. The President has received the following announcement from Pirata's council of change in the committees of the council, such as the 16th. Parliamentary convention: Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir takes up residence as the head of the Environment and Transport Committee, and Birgitta Jónsdóttir takes his place as vice in the General Information and Education Committee, and Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir takes his place as vice of the Board of Control and Control. These changes will be considered approved without a vote if they do not object.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-08-1.u5	Prominent prime minister on behalf of the government, as stated in Article 62. Conferences, will be held tonight, and the discussion will begin at the end of the week. 19,40. A meeting is arranged for three, 12 minutes, six minutes, and five minutes, while prime minister has 20 minutes to go.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-08-1.u6	Relations have to be searched from the council, i.e. final paragraph 3. Parliamentary affairs, how things should be handled by members of the Parliament. A meeting is arranged between the presidents and the chairmans of a assembly to suggest that they be taken from their seats next to the officers'entry into the hall, that they be drawn to one another for this place. According to this, Ríkharðsdóttir Pétursdóttir's seat 8, Birgitta Jónsdóttir, 23 Brynhildur, 22nd Helgi Hjörvar, 44, Ragnheiður,dótttir 45, and Svandís Svavarsdóttir 7. Furthermore, there has been an agreement on how parts should be handled by members of the council. The members of Steinunn Árnadóttir, Ánarnusdótir, and Björt Ólafsdóttir, can have a seat that is especially convenient for them here in the hall. This is seat 14 for a what? paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir and number 32 for what? paritaprevir That's Ólafsdóttir. Let these variants be considered approved if they do not speak out.
