ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-60.u1	In accordance with Article 1, the election is adopted for the 3rd session. track No. 85 1997, with subsequent changes to four years from January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2018, U.S.A. The vote applies to 7 mg. 82. g. Parliaments that say that when choosing one person, they are alone and alone, not contradicting it. Moreover, the election is based on regulations in Article 1. the Act on the U.S. Marshals, which states that the Council's Committee for Presidency is to appoint a man at the vote. This has been done by the prime committee and by the appointing of the current agent, Tryggvi Gunnarsson. Other nominees have not been received, so Tryggvi Gunnarsson is an individual. The President has decided that the vote will be made by the vote system, such as by Congress. It can be tied to a secret written vote. The vote system will now be set so that the tablets on the walls will only show who paid votes, not how they voted. The same applies to the computer storage memory. Those who choose the Tryggvi son of Gunnarsson press the yes button, but those who want to return the blank push on the button marked: does not vote. No button has been disabled. A yellow light on the middle button of the council when a vote has been paid, no matter which button you have pressed. Similarly, only yellow lights are on the wall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-60.u2	The vote is over. Syllables fell so that Tryggvi Gunnarsson's son received 43 votes, 9 do not vote. So I now pronounce Tryggvi Gunnarsson as U.S. Marshal from January 1, 2016 to the next four years and wish him a success in his work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-60.u3	A respectable president. I come here to explain our adjustment to the 3rd. of 373 C.E. If this adjustment is approved, a payoff of the government's products will be given and government health agencies will fail if the requirements of the proposal are met. That lasts three years. Honorable senators. I'd like to introduce the proposal, but it's a campaign that the government, the health authorities, and the pharmaceutical company Gilead are on to wipe out hepatitis C in Iceland. Gilead proposes the medicine Harvoni without charge, but with the campaign, the company has a unique opportunity to investigate the benefits of such nationalism. The medicine Harvoni has been used, among other things, in the north and in the United Kingdom. It is highly efficient but very expensive. According to information made by a senator, the cure takes about 11 million per patient. In this country, we have an estimated 1st of you. if you are infected with hepatitis C. I'd like to thank the medical team of the Land Hospital for the lead and initiative in getting this assignment to the country, and I'd like to congratulate all of us on the greatly improved public health that will result. The proposal is part of the process of paying for the progress of this important project. I hope the senators will vote for her.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-60.u4	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a greater body of committees to change the law on older people's affairs, social security laws and health insurance laws. This bill includes enforcing health insurance to negotiate the means of living and living space as well as of day, which means that projects that used to be on social security are moving to health insurance. The Committee has discussed the matter and has arranged for its meeting with members of the Ministry of Health, the National Society's Union of Health Services, Medical Insurance and Insurance Services. I note that the greater part agrees that the time to win the bill was short, yet the greater part agrees to suggest that the bill will indicate a change in the law on the elderly, No. 125/1199, Social Security Act, No. 100/2007, and health insurance law, No. 112/2008, who aims to improve the access of the health insurance agency to negotiate space services for the elderly and to simplify their dealings with institutions for the elderly. C Company 7. it is that if there is underdeveloped or overdeveloped, it should apply to the general tax system, but the majority of the object cannot accept it and therefore suggests that the bill will be approved by the change in c-involved 7. ... goout. Ólína Kjerúlf Þorvarðardóttir and Steigrimur J. Sigfússon were absent at the hearing. Unnur Konráðsdóttir, who was absent from the case, signed this opinion according to Article 4. 18th par. Orders of staff members of the Generals. Under the heading, another is the one listed here, the Ragnheiður, daughter of Ríkharðsdóttir, Arnardóttir Larra Arnardótttir, Sigríður Á. Andersen and Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-60.u5	V.E.G. President. I'm here taking a sound because of this bill, which is a proposal for a change in the law on the elderly, the social security law and the health insurance law. It's just two things that I would like to highlight during this discussion, actually points that are well and thoroughly traced to my committee opinion. The welfare committee. On the one hand, criticism of the work is being done on this subject, but the bill was very late. Its payment is related to the payment of budgets, and the occasion should have been clear since summer, but it was not distributed until December 2, and it was recommended on December 17, and on the night of the year. The welfare committee only had one hour to investigate. That means it wasn't sent out for review. Then we come to the second item of what I want to do here as a subject. In view of this issue, it is more than just connected to some date rules, it also has to do with certain system changes. This is about to the extent that, to a large extent, business is being transferred into the welfare services of a service that even public or semiofficial people are already doing. So it's a matter taken care of by the state. This is also linked to rural affairs where this is linked to business in nursing and living homes based on day-to-day expenses. It's been very heavy business over the past few years, including for rural society. Therefore, it is critical that rural society has not been able to give any comment on this subject. The same can be said of the provisional organisations in welfare services that have suggested that by means of the proposed arrangements they are made to care for and care for the collections of funds from members of the household and that this arrangement may be difficult, since it is a close personal relationship between managers and members of the household and that there has been no time to examine these comments. What I wanted to draw attention to this discussion is, on the other hand, a very short period of time on this matter and on the other hand, that it is also a fundamental approach to welfare matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-60.u6	V.E.G. President. I don't know this case at all. There has been a small talk in the conference class of the left movement the green offer, and now there has been a lack of a problem. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir successfully outlined the matter. As I hear more of it, I find it a little bit harder to drive it through right now. It's late, and it's a change we don't know about, as I say, but it's still basic. It is absurd in view of what is happening within the medical system in general, where there is a trend, and government experiments, to get more and more projects from health care, health care, and aging services into a contract with a health insurance agency, to transfer legal agreements from a government agency to a health insurance agency. I understand that it's being transferred into this channel. As I'm saying, this case is beyond discussion. It has just arrived at the council, has not yet been given a natural notice and has failed to expect the U.S. law to be accepted in the last few minutes of the council without our discussion. Is that really to be done? This case has not been thoroughly explained to us, it has not been in a natural narrative. We don't know what we're voting about, I insist most people in this room have an idea what to vote for. Thank you. paritaprevir A Þóra named Árnadóttir Arnad, for expounding the case here, raises questions to us. These questions have led me to at least my vote against this matter, not because I would do such a thing after a closer examination, I don't give myself in that subject, but I protest these devices, the highest. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-60.u7	V.E.G. President. I'd like to recommend a committee party. The Economic and Business Committee on bill to legalize various budgets for 2016. They're on the air. 678. The case was called before the 3rd. In a board of committees why. In addition to the changes proposed by the Committee at the 3rd district, the committee is presented as an article for discussion and the conclusions of the cases. First, I agree on financing the community service with disabled people. The committee called in to discuss the matter of the following party: Ingibjörg of Helga Helgadóttir, Benedikt S. Benediktsson, Katrín Anna the daughter of Jónasdóttir, Elín the Guðjónsdóttir of Gjorn and Þór Jónsson of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Guðni Geir Einarsson of Internal Affairs. December 11th. A landmark agreement was made between state and rural society, which includes the final conclusions of funding the community service to disabled people under the legal law on the litigation party. On the basis of this final agreement between state and rural society on the financial borders of rural society with those who are disabled, it is expected that contributions will be made to subsidies from the tax collections of government funds to ensure financial recovery of rural society through the services of disabled persons and to meet the local community's wishes on the broad range of municipal income companies. The meeting procedure is designed to ensure improved survival of rural society on the basis of the current level of legal service of rural society under law on the affairs of disabled persons. According to the agreement, an additional legal income-based corporation is a contribution of 0.235% of the total taxpayers. It also increases the share of rural SEC from 0.95% of the rural population to 0.9%, respectively. On the basis of the agreement between state and rural society from November 13, 2013, the contribution of rural funds to blackout due to the language of disabled persons was transiently increased by 0.04% in 2014, with an increase in length prior to 2015. This rate is suggested to be permanently legalized as part of a maximum of the rural output of 14.48% to 14.52%. In accordance with the agreement, rural communities are confined to 0.25 percentage points of the increase in response guaranteed by translocation of disabled persons to the services of disabled persons within the corresponding service area. The ratios of the cohesive contributions to the European Union and to the part of the rural community are reduced to remain unchanged, although the 2.12% increase is observed. This also applies to the specific donations for rent money and the equations of loss of income due to property taxes. The committee proposes a modification proposal for the above, and it can be found on a deck. 680. I'm going to make it known, more specific, more dignified President, that this is being assumed in financial terms as we went to our previous meetings. [[Up front.]] It's time to celebrate the agreement that has been reached. So I'm looking at a tax warrant in income tax. The 2nd. A greater proportion of the committee called for changes to the corresponding taxation and access to transport income between tax steps to the 3rd. to examine the effect of intended changes based on the sexual view of economic control. To investigate the matter, a greater proportion of the committee feel right to fall from their previous changes in terms of the year-to-year factor, but to continue to allow income to be allowed to move half of the tax steps, as in current law, in spite of the decline of the midpoint at the beginning of 2017, as expected in the bill. However, the committee feels that it is necessary for a minister to take the initiative to examine from available sources for harmonization and, in view of any gender and tax equality, what may be the effect of increasing that authority. The Commission assesses it from available data to proclaim changes in the maintenance of unchanged status in terms of gender economy. The Commission then stresses that the analysis results in a future assessment of the impact of tax changes on the main objectives of this study, i.e. About how to feel the fiscal structure. As to the adjustment made by this material, I refer to threshing. 680. In view of what I've been going over, a respectable president, it's a good idea. The Economic and Business Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes I refer to for the spell. 680. Under these publications. Posthumous members: Frosti Sigurjónsson, chairman of the Committee, Willum Þór Thor Thor Þórsson, Líneik Sævarsdóttir Sigríður Á. Andersen the son of Níelsson, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, Árni Páll Árnason, who in advance does so, the Steingrímsson of Pixon, who also does so in advance, and the daughter of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, by warning.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-60.u8	Mr. President. I sign this opinion because I believe that the changes that state and rural society have now made to solve the situation of disabled persons are now being made. As noted, countries and rural communities have been seated at the contract table for the past few months in an effort to reach an agreement that can be continued following the move to the local community a few years ago. Today, a review of how it has worked out and what the cost has been. I will, of course, support this landing. Then I just want to talk about it for a second. The same principle was applied by Williamum Willum Þór Þórsson. I'm glad that the majority of the committee decided to withdraw the proposal of 2nd. and decided to take a closer look. There are indications that the questions about gender's intervening effects did not really appear until the 2nd of us. The point. I just want to say that in the majority of the committee's committees, it is very difficult for me to listen to the views presented to the committee that indicated that this adjustment would have a very different effect on sex, in view of 75% of relationships being men with a higher salary than women. As a result, such a law can have a very different effect on the sexes. It does not alter personal experience, what they do with their marriages, the main thing is that members of the committee look primarily at available data. I also welcome the encouragement shown here that a minister will try to look at available sources of taxation suggested by the committee. This was not the case in the prime minister, but the committee suggests that this warrant will remain, but time will be used until the steps are reduced to examine the different ways of the sex but also from the general tax equality. So I trust that after the fine discussion that took place on the committee, we will be pressured to examine it. Of course, if we are serious about being here with a sensory budget and a sense of espionage, we need to look at, not just the government fees, they need to be examined, but also how the tax system works differently for the sex. My lead model is that I feel very important that this review is carried out, but also that at the end of the poll, the committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with these changes. I agree with the changes, but not with the whole bill. Of course, I made a thorough explanation of this in my two - year - old talks. Because I disagree basically with the tax policy established by the government. Of course, it's the tax policy I've discussed in detail that I don't give back the balance effect that I want our tax system to be new to, including specifically what is being proclaimed in this bill, except for any previous change in not extending money taxes, not extending energy taxes, increasing the value of food taxes, and then going on the road that is set up and taking two years, reducing the step-by-step tax system. I disagree completely, so I say, even though I support these changes, I will not support the whole bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-60.u9	A respectable president. To a large extent, I can refer. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, has been traced. It is very important to be behind the change in the financing of rural society with disabled people. As I explained earlier in a vote on the payment of budgets, it is commendable that the government has agreed to negotiate with the rural communities there. It is important to remind that in 2010, the transfer was carefully implemented to finance the workers, but it was always known that it would have to be completed following the experience to improve the quality of the revenues. It's been done with this agreement. I believe it was successful, that it was a good decision to transfer the causes of disabled people to rural society. This was a challenge to the funding of that assignment, and with that decision at the time, the press was also spared a cut - down operation that would otherwise have been taken by the State. With the cat thing, I can agree with that. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, says. In itself, I find it difficult to take a positive view of the same principle as that, but I found that it was a better solution than the one on the board at least half of the previous version. So I made allowances for the case in this way, but I have reason to believe that the next year will be used for the analysis that needs to be performed to assess the impact of such cataplexy on the gender economy. In handling this case yesterday's committee, I thought it was true that for the first time a man saw a serious mountain project on a tax issue on the grounds of a sex-created economy. I'd like to commend this government for having held to a people the policies that arose in the past government on a sensory economy and that there is a unity in the Ministry of finance that really handles the material discussion of the issues, would come and not reason with members of the council on this basis. What a cause for joy that is! I then suggest that time be more time - consuming to get the job done.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-60.u10	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to legalize your citizen's rights as per the traditional method of December. A general and educational committee suggests 49 people will be granted citizenship. We received 64 applications, and the results of the Committee are offering this bill. I make it clear that the General decision to provide citizens' rights is not an example.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-60.u11	V.E.G. President. The terms paid against this bill are largely a vote against the government's practices on this matter. That's where I'm going to point out, and we're going to get back to argument. paritaprevir Steinunn Árnadóttir's granddaughter and her own words here a few minutes ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-60.u12	V.E.G. President. We in the United States will sit with this vote, which will come about because it was measured on the case just before midnight on December 17, and the next day it was discussed on a welfare committee. The bill is 15 articles, and the visitors involved had barely studied the bill. This was expected in the budget bill by changing budgets, but the health minister drew it to December 2, and it could not be recommended until December 17. We feel that in no way could have formed a thought - provoking view to support the situation, so we decided to sit next to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-60.u13	A respectable president. I can agree that the case appears on December 2, it is recommended on December 17, and this is a legal case. To me, this isn't a major operation and I don't think it's a policy-changing operation. However, I agree with those who have spoken here, that kind of work is not a good thing for us, so we need to change. Nevertheless, I suggest that he approves of this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-60.u14	A respectable president. Tolls are a lesion. Tolls are a very unfortunate way of earning money for the state. Tolar has the effect of reducing the market supply, increasing prices, reducing market development, and, of course, its nature, in preventing market availability. Thus, Toluls have negative consequences for those in that country. Tolls, however, do more; they weigh on and off free business, especially with poor people in developing countries who are trying to ensure their livelihood by free trade. So I am happy to see some solidarity here with this adjustment proposal to lay down tolls on certain products, but I am also happy to see that it is not a complete harmony because it would give me first piss for the heart, as it is sometimes said.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-60.u15	V.E.G. President. Here we are discussing a set of changes that are involved in canceling tolls from a snack that has a toll number in 2005. 2003. There are certainly more toll numbers in this product type than customs in general foreign trade management, and here we are following the maximum policy. A government, and we'll find a place in the bill of this matter. It is being dropped tolls of clothing and shoes, and a year ago we canceled general goods, so here we are in perfect harmony with the direction towards the increase in resources and prices in the country. This case is part of it, I support it, and I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-60.u16	A respectable president. We in the United States are facing this transition. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigríður Á. Andersen persevered in keeping this matter alive. There is special reason to stress that this is where we may not be the most widely used consumer products in the household. On this basis, we need to encourage the government, this government, and these retreating classes that are now under control to continue to clear up food, since one of the most important changes in home life on the next loss is that we use supertoll on food. Milk is a very good sign. We happily vote with this change and encourage the government classes to further our admiration.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-19-60.u17	Mr. President. I don't think it's the most important interest in the public in the country to reduce prices on potato chips that can be regarded as a late birth of loyalty, but I'm still seeing some of the highest value. Ministers are not prepared to support the case. This is not surprising to me, considering that this government has established a public health agenda. I can't see how this demolition of potato chips serves directly the declared public health goals of the government, so I'm surprised to see how many people are having it. The members of the board offer this vote. I say no to the motion.
