ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u1	Borist has received a letter from the vice president of the United States Assembly on the left of the movement to an offer of 8th. We're out of here. "Ögmundur Jónasson, can't attend a conference next time. Today, therefore, at the General Assembly as his assistant, Mt. 1 of the left movement's list of green bids in the district, Resa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjordsdóttir. Vosa Brynjólfsdóttir Brylfóttir has taken her place before at the General Assembly, and she is welcome back to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u2	Mr. President. I wanted to use this opportunity to remind a president, as I did last week when the president was not in a public chair, a sitting president, that we were discussing the World Assembly Museum, discussing the council and the Board of Congress. It's been a while since we've been meeting at a Senate Committee that was talking about some time in February. The president was impressed then, and within a week and a half, he announced that we would meet rapidly and extensively. It hasn't worked out. In view of the conference administration, in view of the trouble that always exists at the council on planning and so on, I ask if the Speaker can't attend a conference as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u3	The President will consider it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u4	To answer, Economic and Economic Ministers, Health Ministers, Education and Culture Ministers, Social and Housing Ministers, Fisheries and Agriculture Ministers, Environmental and Resource Ministers, Foreign Ministers and Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u5	A respectable president. It's not long since there's been a riot over the alleged purchase of the D.A.M. and a state police officer owns some 250 MP5 incursion guns. The discussion following a press conference will not be tore up here at all. Yet, I would like to express my joy with two consequences of that discussion, one at the top. However, a minister has decided to publish the authority of the police, which I believe is a large leap forward in the rights of police and public protection. General and Education Committee to regularly meet with a state police officer on the need for weapons and the police weapons. What still seems to be missing is a sort of democratic approach to the decision process itself. We're the ones sitting in bed. The General and Education Committee will likely be more informed about police plans, however we will have no part in the decision-making process itself. But what may be more serious is that we cannot, in fact, express ourselves publicly as to what they are or how we feel about them without risking to violate the terms of Congress. In fact, our hands are as bound as they once were, though we are more aware of the course of events. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of the state of state, how he sees the decision on the arms trade of police to the future, especially in view of the democratic authority that we must demand that organizations be subject to lethal power.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u6	V.E.G. President. I'll think about it. A senator is aware that just a few days ago, a police report on the expected need to renew the police arms market was coming, something we've been waiting for. That report has just arrived at the Ministry, and until now I have been very briefly able to understand it. However, I intend to publish the report on the Home Office so that its contents can be studied and the evidence there is evidence to support the need to review the arms property of the police and to ensure that its safety is the means by which it needs to be safe. My opinion is that it is very important when we consider the tools and tools the police must have in mind that they themselves explain how much weapons need to be and what kind of weapons they are. Of course, the basic issue of this subject is that the Icelandic police are not in general armed, and the Department's current report is that fundamental action is very clear; it is not that the Icelandic police are armed, and there is no plan for any change in the general order. However, it is time to review the police arms property and whatever it is that they need. Once you have taken a decision on what needs to be obtained, you need to consult your authority on this subject. But my point is that me and the Icelanders will pay for the weapons that the police need.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u7	A respectable president. Once again, I must celebrate the highest response. Ministers when it comes to inquiries about information flow and celebrates very much that this report will be published, I look forward to reading it. I expect that during the discussion that will likely follow in view of the viewpoints presented there, for we must not forget that the discussion that took place last year caused some surprise to the people of the country. I think it's very important that we keep in mind what a major factor it is and why it's a major factor that the police do not carry a weapon every day. It is not a simple question of what the police need to do, it is also a question of what the common people agree with and how the public wants to conduct law enforcement in principle. I take it that the whole discussion is much more open than it was before but that it requires democratic authority and it is important that part of the decision process itself, not just the information, but the decisions itself, rest with authority which is next to the nation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u8	V.E.G. President. As I told you earlier, when there is an increased budget for specific projects, it is, of course, at the scene of the General Assembly that such decisions are made. On the other hand, I have the obligation to keep police safe so that at the same time as we want it to be in general, we must be prepared that, under certain circumstances, the police need to have certain weapons to maintain law and order in the country and to protect the security of the citizens. That's what I've always talked about in this matter, that we're on the other side of being careful about the public rights of people to walk the country free, and that we have authorities that can protect us when necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u9	A respectable president. In the workplace, there is a serious business dispute. We here, as well as society, are deeply concerned when public employees, including health - care groups, have had a strike in the third week. There is no word from the government on that matter except that it has not been announced to a meeting in this business dispute since Thursday. They allow themselves to face such a serious issue in which there are strikes at such important classes, not even proclaiming a meeting for more days, and taking long weekends. A respectable president. How could it be that in such a serious situation people do not meet for days? What Is the Kingdom Waiting for? In the third week, there are health - class unions, and all they hear from the government is that Prime Ministers say they have to get together before the State gets involved. What is being said, the state itself is a proprietor in this dispute? Human responsibilities are being dismissed. This position is avoided. Why must I ask here why this apathy? What is the government waiting for? A clear answer must be sent on how to resolve the serious issues raised. It is none other than the state responsible for this position, not only as an accessory, but it has also been by its actions and inactions on recent losses, this government, poured oil on the fire, the struggle that is now in the labour market, by changing the tax system, reduced fishing costs, which have been financed by increased financial gains of important public services.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u10	Mr. President. I'll share my concerns with him. A senator because of this situation, but I think that the matter may not be quite as simple as it is on the rise. First, it is with health - care professionals, those within the BHM circle, that the issue is established and that it is being controlled by a contract cycle, and that it is up to his guardianship to make a meeting as the circumstances call. What all of us should think about in this situation is especially two things. First, the change in land strike rights has led to the fact that relatively small groups can now, and I especially refer to a recent social outcome, starting a strike that is most experienced. It has become this way, according to these latest findings, that humans can even strike on individual institutions. In recent months, it is a lot to reflect on how we have been exposed to the basics of our health - care system in order to obtain the demands of dress and grooming. In so doing, the traditional strike weapon has been used in a new way, in that it is going to strike, that decision, does not match both parties as it has been so far. This is the second thing. The second is this: What really is debated in Iceland in today's dress interview? When the core of the issue is that the lack of to do better with the lowest paid, or is evidence of some other viewpoint when large societies like BHM want to mean that education is not measured for pay and that it is nearly too long to say that it has increased, so much so that it no longer pays off, it doesn't pay off, to get good education, e.g. - With a college education? [[The president calls.]] This brings us to another major point that we would like to include in our discussion as we discuss the job position.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u11	A respectable president. There's a strike at the BHM General. It has been over by the third week, and it added to the group today. And the highest. There is a financial minister who negotiates the case here and has a number of questions about himself and others at a job market. A respectable president. The government needs to know where it's going. She needs to know what course to take in these discussions. Nothing's coming. The government will make it perfectly clear. It's confirmed here in the highest possible answers. Secretary of finance. He just puts the matter away and rolls things around like this in general like sitting at the kitchen table at his house. Don't they know they're running this country? They lead the government and the government and the government in this case. A respectable president. The longer the strike, the harder it is to unwind it. Therefore, this lack of respect for the government is very serious to me. [[The president calls.]] I'm very worried, and we in the United States, about what's going to happen, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u12	Mr. President. I must now say, the person who is returning wealth here is the one who spoke last. What was included in this discussion? That they should agree with requirements as they show up at negotiations and otherwise they're not part of the agreement? We're working on the ideologies that it's worth something to maintain the stability that has been achieved, that keeping the home and the job life in this country are important to us to keep low inflation, it's just really important. And we need to keep the cards in such a way that people don't do something in one area that causes a disorder in another, to think of the trouble ahead of them. It is a responsibility to negotiate purchases and terms when it leads to predictable instability. That's not what this government is going to do. The proposals made on the part of the State focus on our ability to increase the level of money, which has actually never been higher than it was last year, and on maintaining stability. But, hey. A senator seems to care about the latter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u13	Mr. President. I'd also like to have a place to talk about. Although he now seems to be taking some form of misapprehension against him, the minister of finance for the dress code. V.E.G. During the past few days, the prime minister has said that it is not possible that the government will blend in or play its part until the parties see land or have come to some foundation, as he has said. In other words, the prime minister's words can be summed up that the Kingdom is to be observed and settled. But in this case, the state itself is in the lead of the controversies that deal with employees. The university is on strike and hundreds are added tonight, so hospital activities are not only more and less paralyzed, and the situation is even worse than in the medical strike, but they are now additions to veterinary surgeons and other groups that paralyze food production and even export. And the P.S. workers are in a strike. The Ministry of Economics must note that the P.I.'s employees are in a strike. There must be something about the Ministry of finance. It's the highest. Financial and economic ministers agree with Prime Minister dissociative policy or not? How is a country to be seen in a sports dispute of public employees without the State doing so? How can the government sit and wait for a foundation to be established because it is different from what it does? In fact, for many more reasons, the government cannot take responsibility. She gave a specific tone of agreement with doctors and teachers, regardless of what anyone said about it. The government is responsible for one-sided measures, e.g. the budget of the last year, which was warned not to be oiled on the fire, but to do so. These include the one - sided decrease in unemployment rates, the decline in the rate of biofuels, etc. The Kingdom must do its part if it is to recreate trust that is lost in these areas. Finally, the government is once a government, or what? It is responsible for the general situation, though sometimes you may feel that it is more involved in government opposition to a government that gave way two years ago than it was in power. [[The president calls.]] How's the top? Minister of this position?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u14	Mr. President. Of course, we are paying close attention to the way the talk cycle goes forth, realizing that what the State has to offer can matter, not just in dealing with individual societies, but in large contexts. Yet, there are regular statements that do not require any demands on the State. That has been said many times. They're not waiting for anything from the state. The only thing we are doing is talking about, most at the scene of reconciliation, the requirements that humans want to meet. What are they? How do they appear in different ways from individual companions? I can tell people, however, that if the demands go by, in some cases, pay will rise by 50%, and if there's anything we should consider, immediately announce a meeting to try to keep matters up on that basis. In other cases, pay would increase by 100% - one hundred percent. Does this seem to be a reasonable requirement, a basis for taking steps in the matter and trying to bring up some solution? For my part, I say, there's no basis for the next meeting. I'm afraid that's not the case. Even if this is the case with the people who feel the most about it, we have so much in common, and we need to grow in understanding that we will prosper in maintaining our inflation. This will be the most important thing in terms of our having the opportunity to solve various anxieties in the labour market, the focus of our individual partners, but to maintain balance at the same time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u15	Mr. President. That's what I'm talking about. A minister repeatedly says that such strikes are carried out so that smaller groups may improve, if highest,. A minister would like to take a look at that, if you're ten. The staff of the Union agree to a strike tonight. You see, the Kingdom hasn't just stood on the sideline. This, by one - side actions, has clearly made things more difficult. The government can't buy an alibi from the fact that what was tried to do with moderate contracts last year, as a permanent agreement with a longer contract, has completely submerged. What did the government contribute from January/page last year to this time, in an effort to establish the basis for this? Nothing. Of course, the government might try to disseminate the situation by offering something, e.g. arrangements in the transfer systems or in the tax system that would especially improve the underpayers. Someone has to take the initiative when the situation is frozen as it is and there's nothing to do with a government that sits on his hands in such a situation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u16	Mr. President. Since 2014, the agreements lost no more than they did, and during the past year, financial resources were the greatest. The biggest thing in history. What is it eventually all about? Is it not helpful to improve the benefits and increase the financial resources, that the crowns coming up from the pay layer at the end of a month will do more than they did last year? Exactly what happened last year. Exactly that. What has the government done? This year, we are returning 5 billion to our homes by releasing the fees. We set every centenarian rate at zero when this year's prices are dwindled to maintain stability. We have put forth effort so that the government's budget does not contribute to inflation. That's one thing we've done. And then we've reached contracts that increase the economy in the public system, including... with the teachers' contracts referred to. Of course, all of this is possible. A senator mentioned, considering how we can achieve these goals in common, e.g. by transfer in the systems. [[The president calls.]] But we can't do that at the same time that we have higher than 50%, now that they're about 100%, don't talk about it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u17	A respectable president. Of course, I just want to talk about human rights that homosexuals and bisexual men can get blood transfusions. I know the Ministry is looking into this. Last week, I began doing research on the matter. With the help of a government secretary, we've sent a request to the Ministry, but since the Minister is here today and I have access to him, I just want to ask him right into this case. This varies from country to country. We're going far in Iceland, but in many countries it's now being revised, and it's actually starting to stop making rules like this because there's no scientific evidence anymore. These rules were set up in 1980 when the AIDS epidemic was at its height. I would like to know the position of the minister in this matter. It's about the Ministry and Minister, not the Blood Bank, as may have been the case. What is the situation, and what is the position of the minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u18	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. The best thing to do is to say that I'm very much in favor of being done and authorized. However, this is so growing that it is an acting advisory committee of blood banking services that has been asked by the Ministry for changes in the rules being followed. Although a minister's office may be in favor of this, it is normal and reasonable and in all rules to seek professional viewpoints and advice on changes to the arrangement under those conditions. Then I'll wait.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u19	A respectable president. When I was reading some of the news that was quite recent last year, it was said that there was some news at the beginning of the next year, which said this year, so that I encourage the minister to press after. I don't quite see why we should have a completely different set of rules than anyone else, although, of course, I do understand that there's something special going on there. I'd also like to take advantage of the opportunity to ask questions. V.E.G. The prime minister has set up ideas about a new location at a land hospital, which should be in the Top Search. In fact, his meditation has been criticized, stating that it is not good to call that decision. As far as I can see, it's expected in the state finance policy that a hospital hotel should be completed and a treatment core designed for 2019 C.E. Well, I guess that's because it's at the location where the Landspians are now. I'd like to ask you what the chief question is. A minister of the medical profession finds out about these questions, whether it is important for the government to speak one voice and whether a minister should be thinking much aloud.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u20	A respectable president. Thank you for the urgency of the blood transfusions. I really hope that soon we will be able to make the changes that are called and have been made for some time, as it were. A senator mentions. I want to know, though, that we do not have all the other rules on these matters. They're very similar. What's the matter with you? Because ministers think out loud, I don't feel the same way. I think it's only good and healthy for everyone to think out loud, whatever office they're in. That's what I'm talking about. A member of the council specifically asks for it simply in the budget and the approved Senate resolution from last spring, depending on the line we're driving. There are differences in viewpoints and have always been about the location of construction plans on the Ring Road, but the line in that subject is clear and targeted and set into budgets. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u21	V.E.G. President. Repeat action within the medical system is a warning signal. Healing classes do not often end up fighting against their moral standards, and it is only in the longest of the laws that these classes use the strike weapon. This morning we were meeting with the surgeon general, the Land Hospital, and the Hospital in Akureyri. A surgeon expressed considerable concern about this strike, pointing out that it was even more serious than a medical strike in view of the fact that there are more castes in a strike that complicates the situation, making it more difficult for the hospital to deal with and establish priorities. At the same time, although the Akureyri hospital is certainly not part of the hospital and is concerned about the possible strike action performed by another partner, the strike is getting much worse. The health system did not enjoy the quality of the study, but it did not escape the cut-off period. The healthcare system could not reduce the size of the problem according to the cut-off on the selected staff, and now it is up to the limit of tolerability. I'm gonna ask the Minister for his assessment of the situation. How far does he think the health system can withstand? Does a minister agree that there is a need for more money to the health system and if so, how much money is missing into the suit?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u22	A respectable president. A number of major, meaningful questions were presented here. First of all, about the strike we've seen, I agree. A senator who declares that there is in many ways a strike is much more complex and in many ways more difficult to operate in the Land Hospital than the last winter's medical strike. Naturally, we're not necessarily concerned about the situation today, but I'm more concerned about the impact of this situation, both in the winter of the medical strike, as well as in the long term when we start to measure the health of a nation. This activity is inevitable. The effects will be seen and this will happen over a longer period of time. When asked about the funding of the health - care system, I have described it as an easy way to take care of all the money available to the health - care providers, and I gladly accept increased financial support there. However, I point out that we have greatly added to the funding of the system, both in 2014 budgets and in the current 2015 budgets, even if more so. There are many things to take into account, but at the end of my reply, I am impressed by the fact that there are two cases in which I feel that there are going to be a need, a health care unit, and a particularly strengthening part of the nursing services provided, both during home nursing but even as I look forward to setting up extra funds for the building of new nursing plants.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u23	Mr. President. I miss the fact that a minister is not more determined about money, e.g. to the hospital, because it shows in BHM information that BHM staff in the Land Hospital are generally less paid than any other member of BHM. This is because the funds are not enough and the salary of employees is affected. I would have wanted more clear answers to the fact that he is willing to promote himself in the government that money will be generally promoted into the health system and, in particular, into the hospital. There's 100% use of land hospital, and that's a concern. In view of other countries, it should be 805-85%. This is indicated primarily by the lack of nurses in the capital area, and we ministers agree that there will be large financial contributions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u24	A respectable president. Admittedly, there is plenty of money available for the Land Hospital. I'd like to mention, though, during this discussion that there is a health - care organization that is also around a country other than the Land Hospital, which often carries so much on this big, important institution throughout the medical discussion. For example, I insist that I can find medical situations in which health care is very permanent, and the emphasis on this feature often has to do with my lack of medical discussions. So I declare my full willingness to work to strengthen the funding of the health - care system. As I mentioned earlier, my emphasis on the coming budget will focus on the health and aging factors before entering the hospital service. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u25	A respectable president. I intend to make a comment to the President's conference board. Here we go. The head of the welfare committee and the surgeon at a meeting of the welfare committee this morning. It is clear in the Senate that unless allowed by the committee, it is forbidden to refer to the committee's words or to the visitors who fail to attend a closed meeting. Hv. paritaprevir Ingibjörg Ingadóttir did not first mention a meeting or in the beginning of her speech that she had received permission from a surgeon. This is a clear violation of Congress laws, a respectable president, and it is a reason for the president to comment on such matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u26	Mr. President. I think this is a totally unusual comment, and what I quote here is now just what's in English in ◯common sense. Clearly, it is describing conditions that all of us can tell us about. It is not surprising, however, if a person or a person in that position viewed a matter of confidentiality as being described in general. I refuse that I in any way have dealt treacherously here with the fine man the surgeon is.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u27	A respectable president. I must now say that this is a fairly special statement by the chairman of the House of Independence. It is, of course, and has been for years and decades, so what is stated in the committees of the Generalist Committee, it would be better for them now, to have something to be done that you can then continue in an official discussion. It is so true that it is a law not to witness directly within the references to the meeting, to be discussed with certain men. But here, the nature of the matter is perfectly obvious, and members of the Parliament themselves are directed to testify to what a surgeon has to say about a strike in the Icelandic medical system. It would be better now, a respectable president, if that were a secret. I understand, however, that the proconsul of the Independence Party is sensitive to the public talk of that situation, for there is the complete shame of inactivity on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u28	Mr. President. Right. That's what the lyrics say. That's why I checked at the time, what could be really said, etc. I spoke to the Generalis Office, who has a review of what this has been like. I received the information that the general tradition was that it was all right, and lots of examples were listed as having been done by all members of the council. It is therefore a tradition to testify to words - not to those who come from the council, that is still in parentheses, but generally to those who come to the Council as guests. In general, it is a tradition that those words can be quoted. If so, it has been a matter of special consideration. But here we come again, like we come back and back to this same problem, that it's all kind of vague. If there's anything else in the lyrics, etc. It's got to be explained. There is a process at a Senate Committee that I call back after doing my job, where it is spoken of as making all of this much clearer so that we can get more and more information to the public without being complaining about who's breaking our faith. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u29	President. First, there are committees, so there are two different levels. One is when a meeting is requested in particular, or it must be considered that when people in public employment, such as surgeons, express themselves on such matters as the above, it is completely unnatural if their words are not quoted. It is totally unnatural not to quote the surgeon's comments about the serious situation here. I just have to say that I support that project. paritaprevir The Sigríður of Ingadóttir's life completely. Then I'd like a meeting to be opened, to send directly from these meetings. It's totally unnatural that at the National Parliament, committees are closed and that this is going to take place and that no one should know what's going on in those meetings. It's ridiculous, it's just ancient work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u30	V.E.G. President. I think it is very important that we invite guests to our committee meeting and perform our surveillance role as senators to inform that the subject is on the agenda, and it has been repeated. Some members of the council have requested meetings, have even sent information to the press themselves, made known that the matter is not to be discussed, and have been easily interviewed. I'll agree with that with what's happened. paritaprevir Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir not to quote directly into personal quotations from individual senators who present their ideas at committee meetings. However, in this case it was a general comment from the surgeon general and, in fact, a comment that has long appeared in the media, both from the surgeon and from the hospital. So I think it's a storm in a glass of water in this case. Of course, we need to clarify these rules, and I agree with the people who have spoken here, and keep them straight, because we want to know that we are in a certain environment. But how important it is that we get information out into the community about what we're doing in caring for our role! [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u31	A respectable president. I want to agree with what. The members of the council have discussed how we deal with them at committee meetings. It's quite finished, as mentioned at the outset of this discussion about the President's conference board, that it is not permitted to quote the words of the people directly at meetings unless they are granted special permission. I've done so here in a public hearing, and I've been under no charge, when I have testified to what has been said by a public official at committee meetings, just because the person had made an official statement about the matter before. I think it's important in the way that this is done. This is information, as in this case, which affects all of us, the whole community, and when people aren't right to say anything but to quote what was said, I feel that it is quite different than if I had left another senator or other guests exactly what had been said. That's a big difference, a phase difference, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u32	A respectable president. This matter cannot be discussed without realizing what it is important for information from our committees to be made available somewhere. Committee jobs are one of the most important things we work here at the High Council, and, in my opinion, there is contact between the council and the outside parties, i.e. Visitees at committee meetings, one of the most important places to develop a complete view of the current issues. It is for the reasons that the person and others have stressed that this committee should be opened so that we do not always have to argue about things afterwards, but rather that they are clear ahead of time, before meetings begin, what is in public and what is not. Of course, it is only natural to have some exceptions when legitimate reasons exist, but I would suggest that the meetings of the World Council Committee usually be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u33	The president wants to know before this discussion concludes that, as presented here, it is clear that the regulations in Article 19. Congress is quite direct. It says: It is illegal to refer to members of the committee or visitors who fall to a closed committee meeting, except on the person's permission. However, we do know from experience that at least the individual visitors'opinions are often cited, not necessarily. This has not only been mentioned in talks but also in committee opinions. So it's a bit of a problem. However, under the opposite pretext, earlier in the winter, when criticism was criticized, the president suggests that such discussions had taken place. A senator would have referred to words that fell to committee meetings. In our mind, we may not be quite well aware of the interpretations of those terms. We may try to cover it up and explain it, since, of course, all of us want to honor the Senate.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u34	A respectable president. I come here to make myself available for such a case as this. paritaprevir Man, this Helgi, Hjörvar Hearts, it's coming right at me. I have served as a member of the Parliament, and I have found it hard to discuss matters that are difficult for me and for others. I regret that this comment of mine has come here because I fear the subject of the work done by public employees. It's so ridiculous, a respectable president, it's not appropriate. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar speaking up.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u35	A respectable president. I now think it's a little strange that I'm going to take this case up in a way that's done here for the rest of my life. paritaprevir Ingibjörg, live Ingadóttir. She did nothing but make a general comment about something that appeared at the meeting of the committee during the morning, which was advertised on the program, guests being announced, etc. This government has a number of legalized labor conflicts. Under these circumstances, we have referred to what has been presented in discussions with members of the committee. So, of course, what the guests bring to us on the advertised program will be carried out to advertise guests, etc. However, as we have seen, it is very unusual if we are standing here and testify directly to the words of one person or the words of one of the guests, and especially if we are asked for the faith that was certainly not in this case. [[The president calls.]] There was nothing that I don't think happened before in one way or another or would not have happened after this meeting. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u36	A respectable president. I think it's quite finished now. Of course, we here refer to the discussions at the General Assembly for what is presented at committee meetings, have been doing for decades, even in writing on our committees or in magazines, on the general information presented there, and are obtained to shed light on national matters. The head of the Independence Party must live only on the fact that comments about other forms of secretism are protested, because if something is, we need to open up more, open up our Senate work more, not increase our secrecy. Of course, it is only information that is relevant for the rich public interest and for the official discussion that the surgeon will administer at a meeting of the Committee on the Health Organization. We have repeatedly referred to this, probably all of these in this hall that has been presented in committee meetings, but of course we do not refer to the words of people who may be bad, or why they do not want to be quoted. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That must be the opinion of a senator at any time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u37	The president tried to recall when similar discussions took place and remembered that it was not very long ago. A similar discussion occurred immediately. The chairman of the VG class found fault. The director of the professional road committee would have quoted the comments of a certain visitor who sat at the meeting of the committee. Clearly, then, members of Congress are concerned with this law, so perhaps there is reason for us to reexamine it. The president cannot see that behind this criticism is some political line. Simply put, members of Congress want to determine the content of this 19. The Congress code is...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u38	President. I wanted to reiterate a question that I had in special discussions about the status of information policies and information documents. In 2012, new information laws went into effect. The law is to contribute to the strengthening of important health foundations in today's community and to achieve high targets in the spirit of the learning that many firmly wanted to draw back from the collapse, but the law is to ensure translocation in administrations in order to strengthen the right to communicate and to improve the public's ability to participate in a democratic community to make informed decisions. The law is to ensure control of the media and the public over governments. They are also responsible for providing the media opportunities to provide information on public issues and to increase the public confidence in the administration. Despite some improvements for the better in the new information legislation, they are also failings. 13th. They say that governments should regularly provide the public with information on their activities, such as the electronic publication of the reports and the review of important tasks. The government should then work hard to make data, data files, and compromises available to the public electronically. Sadly, the wording is adhered to and weakened in these laws, but it should be noted that when a bill for new information was first given to the Council during the last term, it was worse than the existing law. The members of the United States were able to adapt to some extent, but not sufficiently. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. The prime minister on this subject thinks: What kind of information does this create? Why are governments not obliged to open their records and those of a painter? Does the prime minister feel justified in having such an exception in the case of government government? I'd like to draw the highest attention at the same time. Prime Minister, that it states that the requested minister should regularly report to the General on the implementation of these laws, including what has been achieved regarding the increased public access to information. According to the Constitution for the 144th Council, there was to the highest level. During the spring Summit, the prime minister brought a report to the General. However, the revised Constitution states that this will not be the case at the council. In my opinion, that's not good enough unless there's an explanation. So I want to ask the highest. Prime Minister why he has not given the General Report on the implementation of information legislation in accordance with Article 3. 13th par. The law and the other, whether or not he intends to report it. According to the above 13. Ministers shall also have the prenup for the five-year information policies to be agreed with the public, the Icelandic press club, the university community, and others. These policies include meeting the needs of democratic society for careful and reliable information. In view of this law, I'd like to ask the highest possible question. Prime Minister, if the information policy has been established.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u39	A respectable president. I'd go for it. A senator thanks for following this case after and repeating questions. A senator will answer them one by one. First of all, why has the Minister not yet issued a report on the implementation of information legislation in accordance with Article 3. 13th par. The law? When is the Minister planning to report a report? In itself, there is no other time limit for such reporting legally than that a minister should regularly, as it is said, report this to the General. The Ministry of Presidency is now working on the report, and it is expected to be submitted either to the General for a summer break or at the beginning of autumn. Another question: Has there been a five - year information conference, as a minister is obliged to have a premeditation. 3 mg 13th par. Enlightenment? The aim is to start work on developed policies when the above report is established. The report will provide insight into how the new information layer has been conducted since 2012 and what is a potential need for reform. The members mentioned in Article 13. the information proposals, including Iceland's press club, the Union of Icelandic rural society, and the documentaries of the public archives, will, of course, be in charge of those policies. The third question is, How does a minister assess the results of his new information code and feel that something might be better handled or done by the law? Basically, I think the project went well. The decision - making committee on information has had enough to turn, but its decisions show that the management board is still developing progressively toward increased transparency. One of the biggest changes in 2012 was that those asking for data no longer need to limit themselves to specific issues but to ask for information on the subject. Certain data, e.g. to the books of the public institutions, and not to be associated with a single matter. Formal mechanisms for bioavailability have therefore decreased data. One of the things to consider, because it's specifically asked about, is a set of values by the law. The new law extended the force of force so that it reached public enterprises, i.e. More than 50% owned by a state or a community. In fact, a lot of such companies have been given the exception of the reviews of the Contestance Commission. It has been supported by the views of non-contracting enterprises'competitiveness on the market. Of course, understanding this can be shown, as it would be contrary to the interests of the public, to minimize the competitiveness of public companies. But it would be a reason to review these issues and to see if the goals have been achieved in this regard and whether it was practical to expand the field in this way, since we must want to protect a public company. In any case, it's been a lot of time at the Ministry and the Contestant Board and for other partners to weigh and weigh their parole requests. All this work has, in fact, been done little if, of course, it has been necessary under the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u40	Mr. President. What has been happening in the countries around us, in Britain, and elsewhere, is increasing access to information that has become very complex. It's not weird. We are in the middle of an information revolution where people have access to information, so it's only natural to have access to it. The lack of access to public information on public taxation is something that people just don't understand except then, so that corruption is being concealed. Why are we not given this access? The city of Reykjavík is now working on this, and Auður Money Svansson is premeditated in that case, Councilman Pirata, City Mayor. He is optimistic about the fact that this year we will reach the opening of the city accounts. What's the bottom line? The prime minister of such work? [[The president calls.]] Or such work is to be started or should be used for public accounting, i.e. State?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u41	A respectable president. I think it's important to have only one link to the record rights of the public and the democracy. The 21st century gives us opportunities for democracies of various kinds, and people may think mainly of some form of involvement through the Internet or something similar, but the basic basis for making informed decisions is, of course, that you have information. As we look to the future in the 21st century with regard to information technology, it is of utmost importance that we view the transnational transparency and information system as part of democratic reforms, both as part of the protection of the democracy we already have, and to increase it over time. I think it's important that we have this connection completely explained in front of us when we discuss it. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u42	President. I thank you for your clear answers, and I look forward to this report. Of course, many good things have happened with new information code, but that's how it is, and I want to thank the Prime Minister for reminding me of this with the official organisations, that I do not completely agree with the prime minister to have the right to be informed. There were many obstacles to being carried out by the Ministry of Presidency on these leaves. It's good to keep it in place. I don't want us to leave this case so that the only idea of new information reforming is to squeeze the right to information. I hope I don't have the correct understanding to the highest degree. Prime Minister only wants to add a new information law or an assessment of how the information law can be adjusted. We Finn's uncles have been very diligent in opening public data, including the laws and books of the state, and I would like to know if the highest level of information is available. The prime minister studied what Finnar has been doing. They are very prominent in public access to information and have a substantial number of staff, including The Ministry of finance and the Ministry of Presidency. If the prime minister has not studied this, I would ask him if he was interested in learning how the National Assembly in Finland and the administrative agency has managed to open up the government accounts, thereby saving money, and having many new companies to use this information to further the administration. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u43	A respectable president. So I start with the last question about our friend Finni, we've studied their tactics on these matters, as well as the work of the Eist cousins who have been in the lead on a number of developments in administrative and information administration. It's very interesting to get to know the experiences of the people I think will benefit us here. There is so only reason to comment on the direct link between active democracies and government intelligence. Finally, the importance of the well - being of the State's income can be acknowledged. The big picture is now all presented, of course, in financial work and so on the budget, with very large sources in Iceland to gain more information on how to handle public funds. These issues are in comparison with other countries in a very good condition in Iceland, but there is still reason to continue to do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u44	V.E.G. President. I'm here asking a question about a case that is about rebuilding a passter Sigurs or throwing it away. No one needs to doubt the importance of our best record of fishing, which has been our basic way of working for the Icelanders for centuries. In 1974, Centter Sigurfur was transferred from the Faeroe Islands to the Acdines Club of Aclins, taking the initiative by Guðjónsson Jón M.. It was a cowter built in England of 1885, owned by the 1897 Icelanders, and sailed to Icelanders for 20 years and then ended in the Faeroe Islands from where he was bought. A few years began to take place and rebuild the ship, but it has been discovered that the ship is badly preserved on dry land, has been damaged for a long time, and is now closed to movie stars and its dangerous surroundings. The shuttle will be destroyed if nothing has to be done. According to National Guard and others, no one doubts about the preservation of catters Sigurfari and the importance of maintaining these memories from the history of ship fishing and fishing grounds in Iceland. This idea has been most recently built upon and rebuilt within the house, but at the same time keep it as a display, i.e. to observe how it will be rebuilt, and at the same time not only deal with the development of these ships but also see the craft to rebuild such ships. This route will cost at least 200 to 300 million. K. At the end of the year, the highest paid. Prime Minister out five billion. K. ... torebuildCattlersThe Sigurves. The Aranesptown Educational Committee of Culture and Refiners failed to accept the scholarship, since she did not see that the budget would be sufficient for the rebuilding process. However, the Congregation Council of Aranesp wanted the matter examined more closely and assigned it to the mayor, by permission of the president, to seek formal cooperation with national defences, the Ministry of Presidency, and the Ministry of Education and Culture for the continuation of the matter, to be held. So I'd like to direct them to the highest level of questions. The prime minister whether the ketter will be rebuilt or not to throw it away and put the questions this way: Does Ministers think it's important to keep the cowter Sigurfari? If so, you're going to go to the top. Based on the wishes of the town council of Aclin, the prime minister employs a future solution to the maintenance of the cowtter? As an option, arrangements for remake and preservation of cowtlers won't take them 60 million. K. which was to be done on the project in accordance with Aclin shops, WHALE and the Ministry of Education, from 2007 onward? That strength was never paid because the city authorities could not afford it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u45	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðbjartur city of Hannesson for this inquiry about interesting and important matters. The short answer to that question is simple. That's a yes. Yes, I believe it is important to preserve the cower Sigurfari and, yes, I intend to use it as much as possible under the circumstances as possible. A senator described. But as he traced earlier, it has not just recently been seen that the local authorities at Ak Aranei sought that the state came in and did some of that during the last term and, at least, the last part of it too. I suppose this work will continue, the work laid out in 2007, the work being done for the maintenance of the cowtter, in accordance with the request of Akpen shops for the formal cooperation of the trade site, the national Memorial, the Education and Culture Ministry, and the Ministry of the Presidency, as agreed on by the Adventist Council on January 29, 2000. Like a snooze. paritaprevir Guðbjartur Hannesson took cover here earlier. On January 16, 2007, the Ministry of Education, Akpensmollation, Haggland Forces, and the Gardens Museum made a deal also called, with the objective of aiding the maintenance of the VictorsSigurfari with the goal of reinvestling the ketter. At that time, the Ministry of Education paid off 12 million. K. The annual contribution to the museum from 2007/2011 to this purpose, a total of 60 million. K. a donation. The treaty was naturally made in advance of the approval of the U.S. Generalis in financial terms. The budget of 2007/2010 adopted budgets of 46.2 million. K. but never came to the point that this money was paid for because the cowtter was reinvented. Before we continue to think further, we can recall that the victory cowter is a 86-bit oak ship that, like a whale. A senator, built in 1885, England. It was used in Iceland until 1919, but it went to the Faeroe Islands and was made until 1970. At that time, he was given to the Museum in Görm, at Acquilin, and has been there since. The reason never to take appropriate measures to secure the ship was as follows: As a result of the 2007 Convention, an assessment of the ship's condition was made and ended in 2010. It was discovered that the ship was in a much worse condition than previously thought and that its rebuilding would be much more expensive than expected in the above agreement, a minimum of 250 million. K. at the time. Then, under these circumstances, there were complications and complications that ran into the thread. Neither the Library in Görm, the Acquill site, nor the rest of the contracts felt that they could live up to this huge additional cost. At that time, it was necessary to reevaluate the long - term preservation of winners, especially for a short period of time. escape from further damage, and how the golden standard would be remembered in a more general way. No longer did the monarchy of making up the ship the way people had previously thought, and the town authorities on Aquilin developed some other ideas, including building a temporary shelter over the ship to protect it from the weather. The economic plan for temporary shelters alone was up to 113 million. K. These ideas may not yet be supported. Much rather, the parties now see an opportunity to reinvent the situation so that it will also become the educational and training platform for the process itself, for the old ways and the building of boats. Thus, there would be an opportunity to educate a group of young craftsmans with knowledge of boatwork, which would then be a human resources for the nation all to rebuild old boats all over the country. If this idea is to be followed, various measures must be taken, such as cutting off the position of the ship from the ship that it is considered to be an ancient monument, since the laws on culture are not expected to produce any less than that of ancient artifacts. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I didn't quite finish. I'll do it later.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u46	V.E.G. President. During the past few years, discussions have been about the preservation of the cowter, or structure. He knows who he is. A member of the United States is here a man who works as a member of a cultural committee on Ak Aranei during the past few years. Because of the fact that it cannot be merely the role of the town authorities in rebuilding the Catter, which is a national treasure, the last deck of our Icelanders. I welcome the highest. The prime minister says and shows great interest in the matter. I hope that negotiations will be successful so that the ketter can be rebuilt either in its entirety or in part after some specific talks.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u47	V.E.G. President. I welcome answers to the highest. Prime Minister on the importance of maintaining the cowter Sigurfari and the declaration that it is normal for him to continue his work compared with the 2007 discussions that were in accordance with the wishes of the individual. You're right. You're right. One prime minister says, the ideas of rebuilding the vessel, actually taking it to Scotland, remake it, and get it floating, are probably out - of - date and more looking to build on it, and use it as a collection as soon as it is rebuilt. I'm hoping this will work. You're absolutely right. One prime minister says, the vessel was far worse than the expected one, and despite a considerable amount of rebuilding that took place on the ship, it was considered dangerous to have it on display. This, however, is an important asset in the history of a fishing road. That is very evident in the answers to the highest. Prime Minister for a question from when. paritaprevir Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir's spirit on culture and the green economy is about 5 billion. K. ... thesuccessary. It is clear, however, that the 5 million are in no way sufficient for this rebuilding work. I challenge the highest. Minister now taking a challenge from the town council of Acdértown, in fact from the Hagjörður, and discussing how these memories can be preserved. In comedy and seriousness, it might be possible to wonder if the ultimate. The prime minister should not be authorized to put a quota on that ship. The way the market works doesn't need a lot of goodbye. It's one of the financing ways to get about 1st of you. The tons of codfish that would be rented would have been financed. Now that we have an increase, we're probably going to have twenty-five thirty. For example, a ton of cod in the coming river would be worth considering whether to preserve sea mines with some pressure, just to make sure that this is a long - term marine road to preserve the history of the sea.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u48	A respectable president. I reiterate that I completely agree with what you're saying. A senator on the importance of preserving the sea mines in this country and looking for ways to do so. Just before they think that the 5 million, they were just thinking about protecting the ship and trying to prevent further damage from it, but even the defending of the ship seems to be quite expensive, as I mentioned earlier. Well, I hope that that won't ruin everything. At the head of the Ministry, it is now in preparation to set up a company of work with the presence of the local authorities, the National Museum, the National Museum of Iceland's Minning Institutes, the Ministry of Education and Culture, or even the body council to work on this project and consider the following steps in what I believe to be long-term. I hope there will be a successful outcome. The decision has never been made, except that the General funds for the project, but if it is carried out by the 2007 contract, both the General and the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Education, although necessary in this process that a 2007 contract will be canceled and a new agreement will be made to cancel any claim to change the provision of the World Health Organization's budget. In fact, I feel that it is wise and does not mean that humans are in any way changing their view of the project or its importance, merely adapting the general approach to a different approach. It will also be the evaluation that this is how it needs to be done. As long as there is uncertainty about how things are going to work, the case is unscrupulous, but I feel that it will be among the projects of this working group that I mentioned earlier as the Ministry of the Presidency intends to initiate proposals for a new agreement. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u49	President. In June. was agreed with the Strategy and implementation plan of the Scientific and Technical Council for 2014-2016. To say the truth, I am amazed that it was held back no more than it really is. You see, this is a very important and ambitious policy and plan of action. These include the promise of an increase of 2 billion to competitive funds for the next year, i.e. In 2016, as well as promises to strengthen the college system funding, it will be at least comparable to the average OECD in 2016 and the average North America in 2020. What a wonderful, satisfying promise! President. These are just two of the 21 operations offered, and each one is actually as happy and as important. The last autumn was published as an equal version of the scientific research and innovation sector in the United States, which was carried out by the European Commission at the request of the European Commission. My unscrupulous conclusion from her reading is that those who work in this sector know exactly where the shoe goes, but not to deal with the problems, failures, the Ministry took little account of common policy, political interest is insufficient, and even if some politicians did not understand the importance of this sector. Part of this criticism is certainly an action program, but not entirely. I wondered, " How could political interest and understanding of the importance of this sector be increased? ' In discussions, we ask why. paritaprevir At the beginning of November, Katrín's Jakobsdóttir spoke of this matter. Prime Minister, with permission of the president: ▪ What's the idea of what? The senator that it would have been desirable, and if even still, to account for the government's actions programme here at the council to discuss it here, and thereby raise this subject and discuss it, I think it's just an excellent idea. I would love to participate in such a discussion. As a result, I want to ask the highest question. Prime Minister whether he has in mind giving the council a report on the progress of an action programme, which is before 2014-2016, since I would have been at the highest level. The prime minister likes to participate in such discussions, and he also believes that there might be some information in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u50	A respectable president. First, I thank you. A candidate for having an opportunity to discuss matters that are very important to me, as well as thanking you for what I am doing. A senator should specifically mention that there was an amazing, ambitious course that would have brought more attention. I agree with that word. As I mentioned in the question period in this room last November, it will be my great pleasure to review the progress of the Scientific and Technical Action Programme at the first opportunity so that I can answer the first question at any given time. Senator. I hope it can happen as soon as possible so we can discuss the state of the report while it's still new. They include the Ministry of Action and the Work Group on Scientific and Technologies, which include representatives of the Council of Staff, Ranniss, and directors of the Committee for Staff. At the last meeting of the Governing Body, March 13, March. Presenting the state-of-the-view report on the Action Programme to other members of the Governing Body, the Ministers were excellent discussions of the report at the meeting, but such reports are intended to be published twice a year. The local report is already available on the Ministry Web, and I strongly encourage it. Councilmen to study its contents there. Like what? Congress officials see or hear about this as they work on these issues in accordance with their schedule, and this is followed by consistent assessment, follow-up, and reporting. But I've mentioned in the past that there is a recent operation at the Ministry, and this arrangement has been established in the history of this government. Then I expect to come back here at the end and answer some more questions. Because there are several things I would like to add.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u51	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for responding to a report on this matter to the council. This will only take place, and members of the Parliament will learn more about what is going on, but they will do even if a report on the website is certainly important, as is true of us. I had found myself wondering, a respectable president, if it would be right to put it directly into law that each year a report on the Scientific and Technical Action Programme and policy would be issued on that subject. For example, when I began to look into it further, I saw that the state minister's report, which is a annual event in the council, is, in fact, just a tradition, there is no reference to its giving. That's why I ask this question at the highest. Prime Minister. I am truly happy that he agrees, hoping that there will be time for this council to review the strategy. Then she'll be one year old. There are a number of activities to be done in the second half of 2014 and the first half of this year, according to the Action Programme. If not, I trust it will be no later than at the beginning of the next winter's council report we receive from the highest level. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u52	A respectable president. Now I have the magazines left in my seat earlier, so I can continue with this talk. There is actually much more that I would have been interested in discussing this matter, but time will come to such an extent that there is yet another reason why we are going to discuss the report at the council. In fact, on May 22, 2014, we agreed on the last spring plan, it was expected that by then there would have been a number of goals in the Council's policy. The status report describes the status of 19 measures, some of which are in several joints. The measures taken are dramatic, from a letter - point point point of view to the approval of an additional budget for competitive funds by the General Assembly. At the outside of the Ministry of Presidency in the program, it has been found that the time limit for the procedure was mainly limited, resulting in their implementation. Since the approval of the actions programme, six measures have already been taken. These are measures of 1.5, 3.2 and 4.3 all leading to the management of public competitive funds. A letter was sent to the fund in February. Operation 2.4 is also complete, but it aims to make it easier for companies to use the staff of investigators from among students of university who have the right to volunteer for further studies. Operation 2.6 of the implementation of expert applications outside the EEA for stay and employment permit at the National Institute of Iceland for no more than six weeks maximum, it is also completed that in 2014 the National Institute of Iceland introduced a new work programme and is now the average pay period of less than six weeks. The plan is to shorten him this year. Finally, action 4.4 is completed, in terms of research, valuables, exports and innovations, and the use of economics for continued education, science, and innovation. There are many other things I would like to talk about, a respectable president, if time was given, but to repeat what I said earlier, I consider it as yet another encouragement to grant my wish. The senator to address this report as soon as possible but to encourage members of the Parliament to study it on the local Ministry website. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u53	V.E.G. President. As the president has announced, I am here with a request for Holtavahize. I can see that I've forgotten my own inquiries, but it's actually possible to sing like the Johns, even though they sang on the west route, I'm on the high side, and on the north side, even though I don't say I'm on 110 and I can't be late. My request goes unfashionably to the Holtavour industry and the situation there, not just in this winter but often in the last winter, because of the changed weather conditions. But I remind you that it is very difficult and very blind when the weather is troubled, so often it is not closed but often dangerous to pass through because of blindness. The current road was built some 30 years ago, and a slight consideration was taken to cross the highlands so that a great wind would blow snow off the road, and snow and snow would not delay. Pagan is at a height of 407 feet [407 m] and has, as I say, been a difficult journey block for the past winter, and especially difficult because the weather has changed much. So I proposed this inquiry after one bad chapter in the winter, where everything was shut down and reviewed old data as a great fire, master of the Roadmaker of the Ummbstagan, while I was a minister of transportation. There he and others could look at his ideas at the road office, such as the governor of the northwest area, a new road site on a 10 - mile [10 km] journey that would lower the road some 50 to 80 feet [50 to 8080 m], i.e. that by the time the so - called Bishop Strike at the beginning of the City's Catastrophe, the road would lead west through Dalahvift to the north of the Holta Law, about 300 feet [300 m] high. That is why I present these questions, which are four in number and then say, by permission of a president: 1st What observations have the Roadmaker made at a new road block at the top of the High Hall? 2. How much lower, by the way, could a new road lie? 3. What is the potential cost of such a project? 4. Is there an option on the part of a Minister to provide funds for such a procedure in the next four years of transportation?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u54	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Kristján Möller for this request. I'm going to wind up answering the questions he's been asking me here. First, what observations have the Roadmaker made in a new parking lot over the top of the High-Helter? In 2006-2007, the road model decided to explore a possible new road line that was some way down through the Holta-Tail. So - called primals were built on the eastern side of the Holta Sea, below the blue hills, where the road is now at the highest. Now, it would be nice to have a map to tell us exactly which area is involved in playing, but this change in the road line would begin north of the North and replace a bishop's turn that we know well and stand by. Then she goes east of the Holt Sea below the Blue Hill, where the current highest point of the Holta Sign is to enter the old road 10 miles [10 km] north of the North Sea, in other words about 4 miles [4 km] north of the Blue Hills. In prototypes, for example, the design involves a roughly designed line of roads, but it is a land model designed by the climate. At the same time, a gross cost plan was made. There have been steps that have been taken in more detail, including this route. Check out other road lines west of Holta Lake. It has been a field trip in the spring to explore snow layers, and a portable automatic weather station has been set up in three places. Data from these data have been reduced. It is clear, then, that both the average and the greatest wind is much less on this new route than on the high point of the current road. How much lower, by the way, could a new road lie? questions are asked. A road according to these new road lines will move about 350 meters and be some north-soaking Salt Sea. The current road would be at the highest altitude of 407 meters, making it 50 to 60 meters. What is the potential cost of such a project? It can be assumed that there will be a new road, a distance of about 35 miles (7.5 km) in length, between 850-0.950 million. K. Is there an option on the part of a Minister to provide funds for such a procedure in the next four years of transportation? This is not being carried out on a four - year schedule, and actually not on a 12 - year transport program. I'm not going to evaluate this project in this short inquiry, but I find it interesting to discuss the ways and improvements in the highway system, which cut down roads and make transportation easier. That's my general opinion. I'm sure that applies to this area, without me wanting to go further on that level, but also more in the country where you can make a significant shortcut. We know this discussion about the Hun Lakes, where there might be a significant shortcut. We also know that not all the locals agree on that idea, but there is no doubt that such projects would have a significant impact on duration, speed, safety, etc. ............................. I think we need to look to that as soon as we look to new projects, shorts, etc. where we can take steps that are clean to lower road height, to reduce weather closing periods, to cut distances, and to increase safety. At this point, there are no financial problems, and no further decisions have been made on this project.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u55	A respectable president. I just want to remind you in this context of the discussion about Chets Forest because in recent years the demand for lowland road has been very loud. It is essential for us to keep in mind that when it comes to such road lines as the Holtaafah, Hellishótra, Brötund, and many other roads that are much of the public and are very heavy traffic vessels, it is hundreds and even hundreds of feet higher than the Hoaka necklace that the road through the Tart Forest is designed to relieve. I just want to be able to figure this out because it's supposed to be our competitiveness to try to lower the road, but the will of man is very many more trafficways than the Forests that need to come first in line.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u56	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers she gave me and the council to this question about the High-Stolen honors and possibly new roads there, as well. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall for his input into other roads that we need to discuss. I've always known that the type of Vega, an institution, works very professionally, often in the long run. This seems to me to have been done here, because the years 2006◯2007 began to view a new road line, with a primal and gross cost plan, such as the highest cost. A minister can do about this, on a 7.5 - mile [7.5 km] chapter, costing 850,950 million. K. and a drop of 50 to 60 feet, as we've seen here, is a number similar to what I had before. At the same time, it turned out that the road model was looking at a different line, but the one I'm not quite sure about is what it is and can't express myself about it. As I say, I thank you for this answer, but I also want to be aware that the Holtaudah is the link between Northland and the capital region and a very multiple route, many individuals and large transports go through it, and therefore I doubt that any project could achieve as much interest as there, not just that the road will be open more often, but perhaps to most of the traffic security, i.e. If the road gets to the point of driving in a blindstorm and scurry along this route, where the windows on a car may not be visible, I think it would be worth just one Mass to look at the matter further. I'm the highest. The Minister of the State to put it into practice, not now in a four-year plan, but in a 12-year plan that I understand to arrive in the fall, to contribute funds to the road project so that the road project can take longer and better observation and mapping of this possibility, so that it can be estimated soon after that work. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Thank you to the highest. Minister for the answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u57	A respectable president. I think it is very important that we look at the 12 years of transportation and transportation arrangements in the years and decades that we provide funds for research. Then I speak of both the highways, shortened to the highways of No. 1, other projects that are related and such factors, that we put money in research so that we can plan for these roads as wisely as possible. Other means of transportation, such as ports, must also be considered. We now see the problem facing us in a landport, where we need to keep building our harbors because people did not foresee the situation when men made that move. It is very important that we give a decent amount of money to study these matters as closely as possible, so that the decisions we make, whether with regard to new projects, tunnels, outlands, or anything else, are at least taken after careful examination, both from safety issues that are extremely important, financial views, and in view of short travel times.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u58	Madam President. I'd like to talk to the highest. Education minister on part of what has been called abbreviated to a student's test because much work has started within the high school to shorten the study and has worked hard to organize it. One of the suggestions under consideration is a proposal that has been called 10.4 that appears, with the permission of a president: It is assumed that the degree of core physical, body, and health production is 3 to 566 high school units. These 3◯6 high-school units are equivalent to 1.8◯3.6 from the old unit system. It is a significant impairment of sports education, and it must call for the question of professional reasoning that supports such a decision. As we know, long - term life - style diseases are a major cause of death worldwide. At the same time as World Health Organizations underline the importance of daily youth movement, the Ministry of Education suggests a significant decrease in health education in high school, which will contribute to the life - style associated diseases among high school students in the country. Since the preparation of the health - care programs for high school schools, the environment in high school has changed greatly, including the U.S. have been making good changes in schools, and many of the schools have offered a much more diverse body and health future which has increased the interest of very many students in physical and health practice, our goal must be to increase the general health of young people. Professor Inga Dóra Sigfúsdóttir leads the Ministers' Committee for Public Health. It has been reviewing policy for the next few years, where daily levels of subsidies in the basic schools of the country should become reality in 2016-2017. In the Minister's Committee of Education and Culture, and I intend, with the permission of a president, to read its main role, which is a plan of universal policy and strategy, which has the aim to promote and improve human health throughout all ages, with special emphasis on children and young people in particular. I believe that such a policy presented here could be of little value if health education is almost out of college because the intention of offering one, maybe two, cannot be met by the end of a sports program. Of course, rather as a healthy nation, we should emphasize increased teaching rather than let our shoes be self - centered. This should be part of the foundation, in my opinion. I encourage a minister to promote this, for of course I ask: " Who is responsible for this proposal, and on what basis is it written? Are there professional reasons to minimize sports education in high school, and what are they? Does a minister in college's high school sports education think that the work is in harmony with the health of high school and the public health goals of the government?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u59	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. In the days of my predecessor in the office of Education and Culture, please. St. Katrín's Jakobsdóttir, a generalist, was released a high school curriculum that included changes in academic, physical, and health records. The 2012 textbook suggests that high school courses should be organized so that all students 18 years of age and younger participate in sports, physical and health. In addition, high school courses should be organized so that students can make an opportunity to make an appointment during each semester. The previously mentioned change is currently visible where the lead-in period of 23 gc. law on high school is now over, but in the winter, the Ministry began to confirm new study programs according to the primary school course. At the time to establish a study course, it was found that the content of the main course of sports, physical and health education was not sufficiently clear. The original purpose of the law was to oblige students to go to sports class until the age of 18 years. However, the law can be read so that it actually applies until the 19th birthday. This law did not adhere to qualifications, as is the case with other articles discussed in a textbook. Thus, it seems most reasonable to explain the principle better, so high school students need to meet the defined number of units in this trade as well as others without regard to age, but as we know, high school students are of all ages. Asking why. A member of the council is referred to as a sports instructor. In case of a moment. A member of the council agrees that sports, physical and health work is a subject, as stated earlier, that it is reasonable to put in such a list of skills for students to gain but to encourage students to participate in sports. The syllabus will include new study aids that include students' jobs. In general, students are expected to develop the above - rate skills at a time corresponding to four or six new units. For this reason, it is a professional argument to make the text of section 10.4 of the principal college scholarship to sports, body and health culture clearer, both legal and professional, so that it refers to sports as a subject. The syllabus will, on the other hand, specify the required training in sports for all and the possibility of students taking sports as a free choice. In addition, schools are expected to organize special sports tracks, which, of course, contain larger sports programs. Almost all high school policy is to start a three - year course of study for the student's exam from the fall of 2015 onward and other schools are going to start teaching on new courses in the fall of 2016. By shortening the student track by two semesters, the number of units automatically reduces in sports. It is recommended that a change in the motion will soon be put in a review process. Hv. A senator pointed to me on the question of whether it was my evaluation of a school gymnasium in high school and the public health goals of the government. Then there is a question about why. A member of the general body when it comes to representing the health of an after school that the task is made up of four subjects: nutrition, exercise, mental activity, and a life - style. One of the four subjects is set aside each year of school. The project is aimed at promoting a comprehensive policy in the pre-and health sector where they set clear criteria, sharpening measures and prevention as well as providing a practical, clear framework for this general case. In my opinion, the project does not have such a link to project 10.4 of high school's primary course that it stands and falls by potential changes. The same can be said of the government's public health goals.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u60	V.E.G. President. We're discussing sports lessons in high school and why. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir asked him the highest. Secretary of education on a professional basis. I thought it was the highest. Ministers take care of the professional program, but they want me to get involved only in the discussion, primarily to emphasize the role that is movement and people's health at high schools. During this time in the teen's life, there are changes and developments, and it is said in the sports department's sports policy that there will be an increase in time for health and sports issues. Of course, the amount of teaching will be reduced by the reduction of high school, but we need to think outside the box and put extra emphasis on the physical activity and health of high school. To emphasize this aspect, I wanted to get into the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u61	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer and the senator for the participation. I believe there are qualifications in these stages as well as in others. In any case, it was at the school where I worked. Sports is both academic and practical. We can totally set qualifications for both, we feel the need, as in other fatherly matters. I believe the literary thing, as I say, might fall first and foremost under it. I believe we're supposed to oblige students to participate because I think there's a lot of changes going on with students. This massive drop from public sports outside the school is also great, and exercise has rarely been as important as it has been in recent years. By doing this, we are not supporting the awareness of young people and future generations. During the first ten years of our school responsibilities, we place a cornerstone, as noted earlier, where a particular course is being developed and established. If we expect a person to become competent and responsible for his own health and well - being, we will need to make this permanent. At this age, students often adopt a different lifestyle. I think we're supposed to take advantage of ourselves there. Research has also shown that the integration of physical activity and learning in schools promotes the concentration and motivation of students for study. To me, the school system of the country is to care for the students and the public health of the Icelanders by means of a system that promotes the health of the individual in the community. I encourage it to the highest. To make sure that the number of units is not too low, a minister must teach at least a step in the first two years of each student's high school. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-91.u62	A respectable president. Thank you so much. A senator for the inquiry and just like that. A senator for the discussion. I reiterate what I said in my first speech, the curriculum will still define compulsory sports for everyone, and the possibility of taking sports as a free choice. In addition, schools are expected to be able to organize special sports programs that contain much larger sports programs. All of us agree that exercise and sports are important to our young ones. I had recently attended the National Sports Association, and there were figures that were very encouraging to us in my opinion of the general sports event within the sports companies on the part of children and young people. It turns out that much of our kids are involved in a number of sports activities. The number of articles that you can practice has increased, so it is more likely that they will find subjects that are suitable for them and that even the proportion of people who practice sports more than four times a week has grown greatly. It's a positive thing, too, that we should not just look at what happens at school, though it also mattered to us, we must not forget the tremendous work being done by our sports companies throughout the country, where everything in the sports industry is offered for children and young people. As a result of our school community, I reiterate what is said here, in the syllabus, there will continue to be an obligatory education in sports, continued the possibility of making sports courses, as well as a course of choice. That's what matters. As a result of a healthy school, I went to the very conclusion that the approach to health - related schools is not only sports but also mental health, diet, and other factors that are so important. All of this is involved in strengthening our children and young ones to go on into life. [[The president calls.]]
