ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u1	A respectable president. I'd like to start first because I didn't get it last week, to compliment myself. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall before a talk he gave them under this team if I remember correctly, where it was. A senator made it clear that he wanted Iceland to become a member of the European Union. I think the basis for a more objective and informed discussion is that at this point people take the discussion. I don't think there's any way to continue such a discussion without it. Councilmen who have had every opportunity to learn what it means to be a member of the European Union, come out of the way and talk about things from what they have. We're in some specialist party game that goes on that people don't know what it means to be in the European Union and then talk out of it. I don't know that this game is done somewhere else. This is where it came from. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall and speaking very clearly, would be better now. A senator who has been involved in such discussions and in politics for a long time would not have formed an opinion on this major subject. I hope this is how the discussion will be, for there is no doubt that it is far better to discuss such matters as these from fact to fact than from anything else. Therefore I desired, because I was in the list, and was not able to boast. A senator last week, take this opportunity, and do it now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u2	A respectable president. Often there are debates in the community, but rarely have I witnessed such a grueling and inconsistency as the one that has developed during the last days. I watched a news report the other day at Station 2, where Linda Blöndal interviewed a mother of three who had decided not to vaccinate her youngest child because of suspicion that her older child had responded poorly to vaccination. Finally, a reporter shows a little color and gives us insight into the other side of the matter. Instead of celebrating democratic discussions, the story is silenced by that voice. Not only is the mother interviewed by the nominees as some deacon, but a reporter is accused of being unprofessional, objective, and most likely against immunizations. What is this other than silence? I think of the United States after September 11, 2001, where the government could not be criticized without being mentioned as ◯un American, or pavilion-patriot. Now I am not teaching Icelandic health systems to the government of the United States, but as a community, we are at the top of ice when it seems acceptable to silence our fellow citizens with similar nicknames. One might ask, " Why is it not possible to discuss vaccinations in a balanced way, as with any other matter? ' What are people so afraid of? In a democratic society, people should have their right to believe, and we should show them tolerance and deal with different ideologies with wholesome criticism and respect. I challenge my fellow citizens to open the discussion and welcome everyone to join in without fear of being rejected or mentioned. The most terrible thing that could happen is that we could possibly learn something from one another, which may not be so terrible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u3	A respectable president. A new study on the effects of domestic violence on children is featured today. In this study, you will find a number of interesting aspects of domestic violence, and under foreign studies stress can be seen in children who enjoy domestic violence comparable to those experienced by children in war - torn areas. What caught my attention in this report about Margrét Ólafsdóttir and Ingibjörg H. A Harðardóttir daughter who both are employees of the University of Iceland is that the children who were present in the study call for increased education in schools on domestic violence and its effect on children. I think it's a call that we at the Council are supposed to listen to and take to heart. In this context, I would like to recall that during the last term, a wizard's awakening was launched as a conscious awakening to sexual violence and was an educational campaign for children of sexual violence. The name then became an exhilarating of sexual, mental, and physical violence against children. The proposal by the Ministry of Presidency proposed to directly expand the awareness of the spirit proposed by UNICEF to provide a special level of violence, so that we are involved in instruction about child abuse at all levels of school, education, and prevention. And what interests my attention after seeing these suggestions in the spring of 2013 is that this is what children themselves have done for domestic violence, calling for education and prevention in school so that they can visit parties within the school system with experience. I think it's a call we should be listening for. We are to make up the available proposal, provide funds for the school so that they can provide the means for such instruction and prevention. The price for such effort is 10 million. K. There is no great price to meet such a serious problem as family violence. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u4	A respectable president. The mission is taken care of, and I have an open meeting for tomorrow's work tomorrow in the practice, and we are all welcome. Last night, I was able to reflect on my pastime to arrive at the highest level. I'm going to try to get upset, and now I'm going to try to get ready. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Siglejonson, president of the Economic and Business Committee, also balances with similar reflections. In my mind, delinquency is a threat of decommissionment, of decommissioning of free capital transport between Iceland and the rest of the world. This must be done so that it builds confidence in the economy over the long term and is in accordance with long-term stability goals. I'm no special spokesman for this project, as I was asked for yesterday. I think we should look at roads like, for example. Exploitation taxes very well and with an open mind. I think it might be a pretty good way, but it's very radical. It's about taxing property all over country's country and abroad, and it takes a strong political bone to go that way. I wonder, and I've heard strong evidence that it can weaken our position and be bad both economic and legal to view eviction taxes or other means to eliminate seas as some special way to earn money for the money of the state. I think they're on top of the world's standards. Prime Minister that somehow he wants to try to make everything possible, to work on it. I want to ask you why. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigrunjarsson whether he considers it dangerous to approach the project, to be decommissioned, with the thought that hundreds of billions of dollars can be made profited from, whether it is of interest both economic and legal interest, as well as, which is not unlikely, that, if they accumulate large funds in Iceland's Secret Bank, at the end of these measures, what would he want to do with them? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u5	A respectable president. We're welcome to come here and try to answer some questions. Senator. But I have to admit I'm surprised at what I'm doing. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson should point to me a question about decommissionation. [[The point is, you're the top man.]] Like what? A senator and others who are aware of the consequences are not under way to the custody of the Economic and Business Committee, and I am not the leading man of decommissionment. [[Foregroundly, yes.]] This is on the table of the government, and the government has formally had in mind how it informs its members by a special committee in which people are committed - forgive me, Mr. President, may I be able to find more time to answer the question? [[Step forward to the committees.]] [[Up front.]] In other cases, it is a special committee. paritaprevir The Guðmundur Steingrímsson, who directs questions to me, but he sits on both committees, the economic and business committees, and the special committee of the council that is committed to trust, and he gets to ask questions directly and directly about what is on his heart. So I'm as well informed as the senator in this process, all the preparation and all that is available, but I'm not the kind of person to answer. However, I thought it was the highest. The prime minister will answer very carefully yesterday with questions. Senator. I don't trust myself to be any more informed of this than was done there. Of course, it is in the best interests of the demands to get the most out of this exchange and that their interests will not be taxed. It is inevitable that if the demands of the Israelites get the most, they will have my people and those who live in the land and the standard of living here will be cut off very much. It is simply a matter of interest and stress, and it is very important to do something. Hence, it is a responsibility to be pressing ahead of the work. We'd rather be done well, and I think any senator would agree that this must be the problem. As in any case, it is not possible to record twice, therefore, it is better to measure it as accurately as possible. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u6	V.E.G. President. A few months ago, the highest was introduced. Sea emissary planned transport at the headquarters of the Fish Room from Hafnarfnarfjörður to Akureyri. This was 15-520 jobs, and the move was to take place over a long period of time. It was expected that the headquarters of the Fish Room would be returned to Akureyri by July 1, 2015, and that transport would be fully completed by January 2017. At the same time as that discussion, ten people lost their jobs at the University of Agriculture. Little was heard of that in the media. Several public jobs have been completed during the recent losss from the Cape of the Hornfjord. Not a word in the media, let alone here in the conference hall, although there are far fewer employment opportunities in those places than there are in the capital area and every activity in the real world. Experience has also shown that once public jobs disappear in the country, they will not return. That is not the case in the capital area. I thought the conversation about Fishing Room was weird. We can debate the methodology of public institutions, but it is indistinguishable for all of us that the country is all built. A team is developing basic services, communications, transportation, and, above all, taking public jobs from the capital to the country along with creating other opportunities for the country's work. Norwegians have been running a very powerful urban policy for years, and this has brought about the reversal of urban development in Norway. We are to look to the Norwegians and not be afraid to make the best use of the roads there has been. Our common interests are the use of all the land's goods for sea and country. Then people must be able to live all over the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u7	A respectable president. I come up here to advertise the social responsibility of the largest financial institutions in the country. Yesterday, it was announced that last year's profits in Arion's bank were 2,8.7 billion. which is twice the year before. Yesterday, too, it was announced that last year's profit of Iceland's bank studied less than 23 billion dollars. Which is similar to the previous year. This is impressive success, and there is every reason to congratulate these large and important financial institutions. Anion Banki paid about 8 billion dollars. In return to his owners last year. It's probably going to be much higher this year, even twice as much. Congratulations, Arion's owners, which, in fact, are most faceless. Great banks boast of social or social responsibilities. The concept is stretchable, and there is even a certain impossible when defined. So it has been a custom to finish the matter by providing some strength for good matters. However, it is less likely that banks are responsible for their customers, customers who keep these institutions going in one way or another. In an almost inflatable land, Adonion Bankers pay up to 8% of their annual interest on irresponsible loans. The interest rate from credit card loans is 12%. If you're going to deposit money on the Arion Bank, the bank will offer interest from 0.1% up to approximately 1%. The figures from Iceland Bank aren't that different. They sometimes refer to interest bags. It can be used for the business practices of banks. While the government and personnel of the labour market are struggling to improve the public's standard of living, banks are always carrying everything dry. The common citizen has no choice. He needs to do business with institutions that are guided only by one interest, the owners. For them, social responsibility is just a cliché.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u8	V.E.G. President. In a public discussion, whether in the media or sometimes at the General Assembly, more is involved that I feel that at least the news is bad than good news. That is why I want to bring some good news here. As it turned out, during the district week of the newborn, I visited some very progressive firms in the southwestern district and in the capital area. All of these companies have a common common sense, i.e. based on Icelandic intelligence. Its production is based on Icelandic ideas that have become a valuable sale. They're both based on standard employment services, e.g. To sell in parts and processing lines for the seaside, and on other things. All of these enterprises were linked to being founded around 2003, 2004, by manufacturing products in 2009 or later, and to have grown completely and are still growing. In one company, I arrived where there were 14 workers in 2010, but there are 50 now and are still increasing, a diesel subsidiary company to increase their efficiency, savings, energy efficiency, and reduce pollution. It attracted my particular attention when I came to a company that was just an idea 2001, appeared with a product product 2009, which is now sold in all continents except in Antarctica. There are 40 people in the field, 100 people in foreign lands. What caught my greatest attention was to the owner of the company and the pioneers, saying: The growth of this company would never have been as great as it turns out, unless the company is Icelandic, because Iceland is a better brand than we in general imagine. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I think it would be good for us to meditate on this and stop speaking down what is Icelandic. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u9	A respectable president. Us senators received a challenge from Samfok for school policy without separateness, including the U.S. Children with behavioral problems, anxiety, mental problems, or developmental difficulties are being treated for some measure of support and service. It discusses the waiting list on BUGL and the Development and Behavioral Station and the State's Analysis and Counseling Centre, but the waiting period is over a year. Also, it is common to wait for a time for speech pathologists to last about 123/418 months. In this connection, I'd like to step aside to the bill presented by the social and housing minister, which has been designed to unite different institutions involved in the affairs of children and adults, and there are very different opinions. This is shown in many reviews, including. From Pediatric and adolescent psychiatrists' association, that the bill can have a broad impact on the services of children with developmental disorders, and it is a step in the wrong direction to combine services that have been given to children and adolescents at one centre as their age groups. The Children's Protection Agency also suggests that the pressures on the diagnostic and counseling centre are already being turned away by a large number of cases. The childhood says that a diagnostic center is essential for children to have the services they need in order to enjoy education and best health and reminds them that all decisions in the state, including the Lawgiver, have to be careful about what is best for a child. A review of the bill states that there is no budget for a joint agency on the behalf of the Ministry of Health, but according to its loose judgement, the cumulative benefits of the combination could be totaled up to about 100 million. K. in the early 1980's, in the early 1980's, in the early 1980's. A total of 9% of workers are expected to be involved during this period and the integration of software and information systems yields about 20 billion. K. Scramble. In other words, saving on a starving system. Civil society as well as the state of the country are also challenged to respond to and fulfill the laws and children's covenants for support and child service because the time of childhood without diagnosis or services is difficult to compensate for later. Children are a minority in the community, a group that does not have a strong voice, so it is important that there be institutions that are especially responsible for them and serve them. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. The group involved in this service need not conclude that their case is upset by the above - mentioned bill. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u10	Mr. President. I see a reason to note that the Icelandic government has not responded to European Commission's recommendations against racial prejudice in a way that the committee considers it acceptable, and we now stand firm. True, we have ceased to be charged with refusing to allow individual religious groups to build their house of prayer, which has been distributed to the mosque and to the Russian Orthodox Church and to temples and to what it is, but that was discovered in the past few years. But now, in particular, it is two things that the European Commission criticizes and appeals to the Icelandic government for slowness, and that is, if racial prejudice is behind offenses, it is not to be taken into account. A minister is said to be preparing a response, but the committee has seen and feels inadequate. This is rather sad, and I think it's a reason for the General to be aware of this situation, of course, that it's not just the executives to make sure it's okay. The European Parliament is the head of a human rights struggle and the battle in that area in Europe, as shown by the European Convention and the European Court of Human Rights. That is why it is sad for our council to be party to the synagogue to have to sit down with such a storm, part of it simply because of the waste, waste, waste, and waste. Of course, accepting the law of discrimination is not a complicated matter; nor is it difficult to accept penalties to look to punishment if racial prejudice is responsible for violating the law. This is where we need Icelanders to get our heads together.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u11	A respectable president. One of the activation options most of the employment committee now tempts to transfer into a new frame of thought without a professional view is Haga water activation. Two comments produced by Icelandic water power have been made to a professional company in the process of reporting that has been developed in a region that is far environmentally desirable but would previously have been aimed. It means that in Hague Lakes and in activation, there will be a stable water level that will have a major impact on the sand polls in the region, one of the major dishes in the country. All right. In the meantime, between the data from the two sources of employment committees, there has been a report from the Labour Institute of Human Rights to Project Management on the same activation performed for the same company, i.e. Icelandic water power. The report shows that there are traditional peak - power activations, a peak - power station, which includes a five - foot - wide [5 m] water crisis in the area. This means that the water five square miles [5 sq km] of water will be increased to 23 square miles [2 sq km] and down to 17 square miles [9 sq km], thus causing the rise and sand francs in the area to multiply over the present period. It must be part of the job committee, if she is to continue this play in the frame plan, to determine which layer of activation is there, and to make sure that it is not a fool of the council with conflicting information about what man intends to do with dire consequences for the whole southwestern corner and the country all.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u12	V.E.G. President. As the number of tourists is increasing in this country, we count to a million per year, and we increase the country's market over wintertime, worry about the quality of the environment, and whether we produce enough food to meet that increase and provide minimal services for the inhabitants of the country, safety will be overshadowed. At a presentation of the highest. For example, the Secretary of the Economic and Business Minister of Nature of Civilism, earlier this year, was presented in the discussion of why we do not look more closely at the direction of tourists through the country, i.e. To direct them to noteworthy places that have not been badly affected by the lure of tourists. Last Sunday, dozens of tourists were in trouble in the South and South East. The bus broke, and people sat cold for hours in cars while they were swamped. It was lucky that it didn't go badly, but what it is this year's rescue crews have got about 300 calls, which is far more than at the same time this year. A police officer in Puppyville was pleased to have this conversation when he said that the police were too few in number, since the number of police officers has not been up to the huge increase in the number of tourists now in progress to become even greater. As soon as we want to increase the country's income and value by visiting tourists, we must not forget the foundations such as law enforcement, and the rise in the number of tourists in the service paid and the right to receive. There are many tools that we can use to help the police and to reduce the calling of rescue teams in dangerous situations, to form them as the closing of roads. Despite the efforts of road people to set them down, there are too many people who try to cut them off and get on their journeys and get them into problems that cost us as a nation. Rescue teams are a volunteer organization, and although people who work within them do it with all their heart, we should not rely so much on them as we do, trusting that they will always be there to save their share in the paralytic community service. [[The president calls.]] Since we executives want to think of the construction of tourism in the country, we must not forget the safety and support of everyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u13	A respectable president. We are to be deeply concerned that Iceland is not one of the main options when it comes to a major investment in a global data plant. Of course, it is noteworthy that letters have not been answered, that the leading men have not been prepared to explain strongly the positive attitude of the country's attitude toward such investments, but even though we are left to be particularly concerned when it comes to seeing that, although we have a large degree of natural leadership at the time of natural examination for such activities as data plants, when it comes to green resources that are desirable for such data plants, Denmark is not making more natural cooling than we or has to control green energy resources, and does not have the will of such investments. Lands and sands, but we and the poor, that energy resources are also more likely to be used. It is therefore obvious that there are political decisions that we have made about the location of our country, the smallness of our economic system, the smallness of our currency, and our world position, which are now influential. There should be a significant warning signal to us as one month of reporting that an international company in this country has decided to leave the country, reports show that we are not an alternative for international investment in the technical sector, and when companies that are reaching out are moving abroad to collect funding and normal business environments. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u14	A respectable president. Just briefly, in the beginning, about what it was. paritaprevir Hjörvar've got Hjörevar on the line. I think we're gonna do what. A senator must agree that it is important that we increase in the coming years of energy production, production of sustainable green energy, in order to offer more data plants and more companies to this country. Hv. A senator will then become an expected ally of its members in due course. What I was going to talk about is the same thing as then. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson came in, made by banks. Anion Bank assumes that $28.7 billion and 23 billion profits will be paid. I think we've all become a little insensitive to numbers, but we can put these numbers in perspective. In recent years, there has been discussions of the fact that the whole country is a light - routed area. The whole country could be light - headed ten times for the amount of money that these two financial institutions, which are owned by foreign workers, could now profit. At the same time, these financial institutions do not bring loss of control growth to the public when operating interest is down here. The growing difference between Anion Bank and Iceland Bank grew by 0.2% and 0.15%, respectively. That's why Arion increased the growth of inflated loans at the same time. We certainly managed to rebuild this banking system, but we must ask ourselves, " Did we succeed in rebuilding a banking system that guarantees public interests and natural competition? ' Consider each one of these numbers. At least it is clear that there was every reason to let the swellings of the fallen banks, which today have $ 1,400 billion and property of 2,500 billion, pay natural taxes to society, as this government decided to do in the last budget because these swellings are now paid. There is every reason to go further in this regard and that the growing taxes, both in the form of the current tax system, may be exported or just higher taxes in general because the swellings, through the subsidiary they own, are not returning this to the public through Arion Bank and Bank of Iceland. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u15	A respectable president. I'd like to be the subject of the council because I'm still very thinking about something that happened here yesterday when we discussed a system plan in electronic law. There was a very harsh criticism to the employment board from the Environment and Transport Committee, which was a management committee on the case, and the employment committee decided to ignore that opinion completely and not even to publish it, nor, rather, respect it to the answer made there. This was criticized here yesterday, asking for some material answers to the criticism that more and less parts of the environment and transportation committees had on it. This was answered by a major error on the part of the head of the employment committee so that the Environment and Transport Committee had just done it badly. I am thinking that this is not the way we speak to one another. Rather, we should take into account the comments our fellow workers in other committees are making on the issues they are working on. We should let this case teach us a number of things, first of all, that we need to make some adjustments in the manner of communication between committees at the council to know their position in relation to the committee, which then works with the case and what exactly the committee is assigned to do. I also believe that from the crumbling committees of the greater part of the employment committee on this matter, it may be learned not to provide some kind of guidance for the committees on how they should complete matters. This committee doesn't try to answer the harsh criticisms that are presented, including the following: ... aboutexpansivesandconcernings. This means that the matter is neglected, ill - prepared, and we throw it into the administrations to work with it without her having the answers to the criticism she has presented. [[The president calls.]] I think these two things have to go through with this. And then I see that it's not on the schedule here, and I have those expectations so that it's because people are checking our wishes that they will be accepted again before 2nd. is finished. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u16	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a change in growth and insurance laws, No. 38/2001, National Intelligence Act, No. 36/2001, No. 33/2013, with subsequent changes. The bill is prepared in the light of the proposals made by a committee assigned to review the Icelandic law on luck insurance and to update the precautions due to the financial risks resulting from foreign loans. The Committee served as representatives of the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the SEC, and the Bank of Iceland. The main objective of the bill is to support the government's project on emissions of capital syrup and to reduce the instability of the Icelandic financial system from foreign loans. The origin of the bill can also be attributed to the view of the EFTA monitoring agency, ESA, which is presented in the rational opinion of May 22, 2013. The Agency believes that the non-employable prohibition on luck insurance loans in Icelandic dollars is not in accordance with the EEA principle of free capital flow. So the bill suggests that authority be opened to grant the received loans and that they will continue to be treated as foreign loans. About the middle of 2010, Iceland's Supreme Court came to the conclusion of V. Relations on growth and insurance, No. 38/2001, therefore, in general, it was contrary to creditors giving credit loans in Icelandic with terms of borrowing in foreign currency, while the law did not limit loans in foreign currency. After the conclusion of a series of judicial hearings, borrowers attempted to cancel the content of their commitments on the grounds that the loans they had been granted were successful and thus did not consider themselves legitimate foreign loans. It is not unusual to conclude that the beginning of the lawsuits was due to the adverse progress of the bank crash. While the separating between a dwindling loans in Icelandic dollars and loans from foreign currency, the Supreme Court's decision has had a major impact on the rights of individual loans, it is not easy to distinguish between the more advanced loans. There must be some reason to believe that this step included extending the deadline to the legislator as a result of an illegal success insurance at the 143th legislature as per law of No. 38/2014. Then the judges will shed light on the high proportion of loans, both in regard to their funding and elsewhere, especially when borrowing in Icelandic dollars. In general, the threat of currency is that when the Icelandic Crown's gang drops, the head of foreign loans measured in Icelandic dollars can lead to higher cities and interest payments as well as lower credit rates because of the decrease of its own money in accordance with the rise of the underlying loans. Therefore, the reduction in the number of the Icelandic bank may increase the likelihood of losing money and/or neglecting it, and hence the borrowing of the lender. One manifestation of the loan charge that took place in Iceland during the years prior to the bank crash was a significant increase in foreign loans to domestics, many of which were not protected from gang swings, i.e. had neither enough income nor insurance for the currency. Thus, in 2008 a sudden drop in the Icelandic crown made loans that held such currency risks difficult to pay, and because the loans were funded in foreign currency, it resulted in a failure of loans and intangibles in the currency market. Thus, the risks of this loan operation were accompanied, not only by creditors and creditors, but by the whole bank collapse society with capital mastered in order to protect the order of success. The bill means that the reporting of the Rapporteur will now be supported by the decommissioning of capital school to limit national currency risks with the aim of an acceptable risk for loans and loanholders as well as national resources. In addition, according to the European World Risk Management Board's recommendations for loans in foreign currency used by the bill, it is suggested that financial market Rapporteurs need different legal measures which can be applied according to the nature of the system risk and when the circumstances arise. A respectable president. This will be followed by the changing of the bill's basic proposals found in paragraphs 2, 3, 5 of the bill. It is. Two. The bill suggests that the term foreign loans will be used as a common term for loans in foreign currency and dwindling loans in Icelandic dollars and that such loans must be granted unless the law measures otherwise. As mentioned earlier, there is much like loans, especially with regard to the risks of individual loans, creditors, and national preparation. In the 3rd. The bill suggests a change in the law on the Federal Bank of Iceland, which includes the granting of the bank to set the rules of foreign loan loans where such loans can be binding specific conditions for loans, types of insurance, information degree, long loan time, and means of reimbursement. The requirement should be, where foreign loans would involve currency risks, but they may vary depending on the category of loans involved, such as specific groups of individuals or legislators, rural communities, and members of the public community responsible for. Other references to comments to the article might be made regarding the content of these conditions. Code three. The bill is thought of as a precaution that would not be used unless necessary, in view of the financial standards of the Council, but the approach of the Council is expected to support the purpose of the Regulation and the joint action of the European Commission and Iceland's Secret Bank in this field. The bill also allows consumers' sources to take foreign loans to be limited by the laws on consumer loans and by the field of the State Ministry to be involved in such borrowing. If these plans succeed, the sources of the Federal Bank will be in accordance with Article 3. The primary relevance of the bill is foreign loans to legislators or specified groups of legalities if such loans are considered to be a threat to economic balance and financial stability. For a-a-team 5. The bill is suggested to always provide payment when a consumer borrows that are related to a currency other than he or she earns. If it suggests that the borrower does not have obvious financial costs to meet significant changes in the interest of a currency in which he earns, compared with the borrower or takes into account, the proposal is not to allow the loan to be made. "B" Unit 5. is a special rule that gives Ministers, receiving the permission of the Secret Bank, a warrant to bind payment on foreign loans more strict than the result of the article's a team, such as they that such loans will be granted only to consumers a pay cutout in the relevant currency. The approach taken on the bill is based on the fact that there should be no further improvement in the privileges of consumers to foreign loans than necessary. My attitude is that the principle of the a-team 5. the bill should be valid unless specific circumstances require that stricter conditions be set. According to the B Team 5. The Minister of the Interior Minister would be given the authority of the Federal Bank and, after an incident, under the recommendation of the financier's proposal to set regulations in the Regulation to bind foreign loans as well as other conditions for borrowing payment in the relevant currency. In the context of this procedure, it is possible to consider whether a minister should set such regulations in Regulation, but this is only allowed. At this recommendation, a respectable president, I suggest that the bill be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. to end this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u17	A respectable president. When you look at the terrible experience people and businesses in Iceland have of foreign loans and gang insurance loans, you must ask the secretary why the General should accept as much more of the legal rights to such loans as this is suggested. When referring to ESA views, I must ask: Now we do not fill up the basics of the European Economic Area Convention, which is free of capital transport, why should we take this part, the success of Icelandic loan, and allow it particularly before we fill up a free financial stream? Since I have the opportunity to direct questions to the highest level. The secretary of the budget on growth and insurance insurance policy also insists that I ask, now that success insurance seems to be a priority for the government, and since the Minister is opening up a law on growth and insurance: Why are there no laws to be presented on the ban on the price-secured loans of certain types that the prime minister has placed great emphasis on and has been promised to appear in the spring Summit? Is it not reasonable to open in the same bill on growth and insurance insurance both by changing the factors that are insured on loans as well as on credit? Or it is not intended on the part of the government to fulfill the promises of the Supreme Court. The prime minister on the price of your loans?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u18	Mr. President. The main reason why the case is presented at this point is in my case that the EFTA monitoring agency, ESA, is the prohibition in Icelandic law on policy insurance. The next month, we'd expect a course to be expected in the EFTA Court, and it's our experts' opinion that Iceland's defenses in such a lawsuit would be relatively limited compared to the European rights as it is facing us. On the other hand, I felt vague about the matter. A senator whether he was really asking why we did not forbid people in general to borrow foreign loans, but today there is no law against taking foreign loans, we only have a ban on house insurance. As far as I was concerned, these two are not exactly a great difference in themselves. This is an effort to change the legislation so that it will be more compatible with the commitments we have made with the EEA contract, but at the same time respond to the problems of foreign loans as well as successful loans by ensuring a better degree than currently valid, including: by public intervention, that such loans are only given to those who are likely to be able to deal with them. In other words, those who earn only money in Icelandic dollars, like the majority of those who took such loans back then, would not in general resist the payment required for such loans. They would have to show either a considerable amount of property they could switch to a currency or to some extent a income supply in foreign currency to make the assessment possible. [[The president calls.]] In nature, the use of both foreign loans and loans to consumers is greatly reduced by these changes. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u19	A respectable president. I notice that the highest. The secretary of finance would especially avoid responding to the campaign for the Agency's campaign of decommissioning insurance that should, of course, have been on this case and perhaps just asking for the Supreme Court. Prime Minister will attend the discussion and inform us of this aspect. In terms of the legal warrants, it's just too much of a legal warrant that the Minister is looking for from the ESA's opinion. After the terrible misfortunes of gangsta loans, people and businesses in the country, at least that's what I'm talking about. that there are two very dangerous risks for the legislators to have nothing to learn from the experience when people and businesses became technically bankrupt more and less in one night because of walking loans and are going to give the bank the space clearances to set up rules that the bill assumes. True, it may be necessary to meet ESA opinions, but it is my opinion that we should learn from experience, that we should learn from the collapse, and that the Council should provide the European Commission and the Federal Bank as limited sources as possible in these material. Otherwise, a respectable president, there is a real danger of repeating the same calamity because it is not like that, and it certainly was not infringement that the rules and decisions made at the Federal Bank have proved to be infallible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u20	A respectable president. Hv. A senator needs to realize that we need to respond to the comments that have come up. People may reason that we should be tested on the court's route in this matter, but I didn't feel that it was a matter of speech. Senator. Here's the way I think it's wise to do, to view these two loan forms as one and the same, because they have the same nature, and then say: It's not acceptable that the same risk can again be built up in loans to the public in the country that is unguarded and the way we can go is primarily based on some kind of payment evaluation. Right away. A senator says that we should go another way, and a much more strict way of leading them, I call for answers to what is not an opinion of payment is the right approach to determine whether it is normal and safe to offer money whether it is acceptable to companies or to individuals who are inarcesurable or foreign loans. We face the fact that the prohibition against gangsta loans alone does not work out. The same applies to the law against foreign loans. That's why this way's gone. There needs to be some legitimate conditions. They're on the bill. This is a way of saying that you have to pass the payment. Another way would be to take the step further. This suggests that people need to be able to withstand extreme swings. Someone might say: " Let us absolutely forbid giving such a loan if the person has no income in foreign currency. [[Up front.]] Here I enter the matter in a slightly more open manner, but I believe that those who can, on the basis of a strong position of property, can withstand a dramatic fluctuation should at least to enjoy the doubt of it and to be assured that it is an open and free currency market that can be divided into foreign assets on such an open market, thus fulfilling one's commitments. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u21	A respectable president. In view of our experiences over the past few years of criminal insurance and the tragic consequences of successal insurance loans, the local, individual, and commercial financial loans have resulted from the collapse. Almost 70% of the loans to companies have been in a foreign currency after the collapse. As a result, all the corporations in the country were legally seen failures following the collapse, all the businesses of the country. The key factor, therefore, was the success of the economic collapse on the Icelandic economy. The same could be said of homes that ended in the hanging chair of gang insurance loans until the Supreme Court concluded that, in some cases, they were borrowing illegally and thus freed people from the insurance system. We then went on to agree to the General Assembly to accept general application of changes that the demands have endured to ensure that homes that were considered to have a valid foreign loan could be converted into or value to them. So strong was it that the nation's problem with gang insurance loans agreed to reinvigorate credit agreements because people didn't get land or shore. That transformation was viewed as standing before courts and has never in itself been questioned there. Now that I've not started talking to my rural society, a lot of rural society has become a real problem because of the success of loans. I review this story because gang insurance loans and gang - related loans were a large part of the negative economic consequences of the collapse. It is also worth remembering that success insurance is a protection against a weak, fluctuating domestic currency. Insurance is one form of insurance. In other words, this is a way to link the value of what is collected other than interest in the currency itself. It's a escape route from a weak currency. The pursuit of gangstad loans during foreign loans reflected high interest at the time. In other words, people in the country fled the home management interest scale and extended interest levels by taking quality loans. The idea behind our involvement in the EEA would, of course, include freedom from people because the core currency, the national currency, is strong enough to endure such fluctuations and that they will never be so great that they undermine the money policy created by the currency. On the other hand, there was a flood when people fled the domestic interest stage in the years before the collapse and influx of foreign capital and then their sudden discharge from the currency market was, of course, the reason for the collapse of the currency market and for the failure of the bank market, which was likely inevitable because it was not due to a raid on the currency market and the sudden discharge of funds from banks due to collapse, but rather, for subsequent analysis to indicate that many things were not caused in the bank library. A respectable president. There are a few things that I would especially like to make to talk about, and first of all, it's a statement of course. Secretary of finance previously stated that there is no reason to test the interpretation of the EFTA monitoring agency on whether the ban currently in force under Icelandic law and the Supreme Court has recently held up against thousands of companies and authorized the EEA Convention. V.E.G. The secretary of finance earlier said that it was just his material objective and his government that the EES Convention would not last. What is the meaning of that statement? This includes recognition of the Republic's finance minister that Iceland's Supreme Court has been judging by a law that violates the EEA agreement. [[Up front.]] This will create an expected national liability to banks that have endured the unsanctioned conviction of their success insurance. This results from a statement by the highest degree. Secretary of finance earlier. If the fact is that the prohibition against the EEA Convention is a legal policy in that the State is subject to improvement in individuals and companies that are damaged by national legislation against the EEA Treaty. That's why a statement came to the top. I am surprised at the fact that there are tens of thousands of loan agreements in recent years to try to see if the U.S. Supreme Court's prohibitions are due to invalidate the tens of thousands of loan agreements. [[Up front.]] I think it's strange to the highest. Secretary of finance surfaces here and goes down before he actually risks testing the value of this prohibition against Europe. I feel that this is a way of handling the situation, so you're gonna need to give some serious thought to how this case is being handled in that light. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that in this regard there are some sources of a variety of rules to prevent the free capital transport to be introduced by the bill itself. In other words, the principle is that it is permitted to lend loans to gangstas, but then the bill is a vast source of authority to the institutions, especially the World Bank, to limit this freedom. That use of power is very widespread, as is the case. paritaprevir We've got Hjörvar back there. Of course, it calls for a question of how realistic it is for us to plan to build a crown without control of the precautions that have certainly been developed and applied in their issue of precautions since 2012. Here is a very broad source of power to the Federal Bank of Iceland, and if you look at other precautions that the Secret Bank has thought to have been needed to lift the oceans from the crown, they are even more extensive, including the greater power of the Federal Bank to decide who lives and who dies in free business on the market, who can go through with money and who can't, Jón can go through but not Gunna. The application of such broad, estimating sources on the part of the money bank involves my own knowledge, in effect, a suggestion to eliminate entirely the free trade and the legal state of business between Iceland. To be honest with you, the ideas the Navy has put out and the highest. The secretary of finance has agreed on a number of precautions involving the long - term financial policy of Iceland with an Icelandic unsupervised basis, to the point where they call for a total neutral bank, an entirely unconnected political policy, absolutely unconnected with the interests of any single company in Iceland, unconnected to acquaintances with Icelandic business leaders. I ask you, when have we ever had such a bank in Icelandic economic history? The answer is: Never. If something is, it has been most likely in recent years that they have tried to trust in the professional independence of the Modern Bank. And now what do we see? We hear reports from within the System of Government that there is an effort to interfere with the commissioning process of breaking down the professional administration of the Federal Bank, increasing the number of creditors without any material arguments, just to trust the authority of the governments on the dosage authority that they intend to create in the new bank to receive from the oceans. A respectable president. In this bill, there is a foretaste of what should come. The unrecognizable sources of the National Institute of Intelligence for Free Trade keep people from getting the real price for their products and from being free to their trades, free from vengeful authority to decide who lives and who dies, who is enriched, and who loses. And at the same time, members of the government have to develop a system whereby the Federal Bank would have the right to exercise that authority, for, of course, it is absolutely impossible to have any sly, unrelated friends of the government, who exercise such authority. Finally, after the declarations of the multi-demanded bail, of course, by the Action Party, that there is a law on growth and insurance to be opened, without any interference with the traditional insurance. Note, too, that recent statements from the highest level have been made. Prime Minister that he is determined to continue with the idea of banning a particular species of valuable loans, i.e. Forty years' worth of credit. All of us can agree that we do not have the most practical loans in the world, but they do not have anything at all. For example, they have the advantage that people can live in an apartment for 40 years and even if the loan is small during the first 15 years, they can best compare such a loan to borrowing or rent on their own. It is a mystery to me why the government would like to ban the opportunity of a free market but in particular, with new legislation options for people to take even more risky and more expensive loans. The lesson from the collapse is simply the fact that success in success was far more expensive at the time than the 40 - year - old guarantee of equal payment. So because of consumer rights, there is not a stone on this proposal by the government. A respectable president. I'll close this up, but I'm looking forward to the discussion and discussion of the situation on the Economic and Business Committee where I think it's very important to be very careful and particularly over the European rights of these matters and in the way the government has handled matters with EFTA in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u22	Mr. President. It was an amazing speech, in fact, an incoherent partition that passed all the main points of this case. It's amazing to listen to this story. First of all. Why not note in your bill that foreign loans are severely restricted? May I call the senator's attention to the fact that up until today, people have not been able to borrow foreign loans, but after those laws take effect, they can no longer. That's one of the main factors. Still comes the second. A senator up here, weather out, and south inconsistencies, getting very upset about the fact that these borrowings were overreaching and are being paid for in the future. It's all bullshit. Second, if you want to make a success of your loan, there are two options. Another is legal action against the EFTA Institute of Observation and to try to protect the position that success is completely forbidden or that you look to what the Agency says, and it's just saying: There's no rules against luck insurance. It is not saying that any kind of prohibition does not work, but it means no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. This has not yet been declared, so the judgments here taken have been settled. They say, "A Fortachless ban isn't going to work. " The bill responds to this opinion, and instead of trying to defend the forbidden prohibition, legislation is tailored to the fact that successal loans can, on a very limited scale, under strict conditions only if a person resists payment or special reasons justifys it. This is the point, and it would have been better for you to do so. A senator would have discussed this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u23	A respectable president. What is stated here by the highest power. Minister is correct, i.e. There are certainly certain standards to be set, but on the part of the Minister in the speech mentioned earlier, it is agreed that the unprovoked ban will not pass the EEA contract. I am calling attention to it and making doubts about its reason, as well as to what legal matters this may lead to the State. V.E.G. The secretary of finance has to accept that he is not some sort of spade in a town that can tell anything he thinks of. When he deports the Allegorical chairman of this case that his attitude is that the rule of unscrupulous loans does not succeed, this involves the preconceived position of the government, and it can have consequences. It is quite simply so that those who know how to feel right can seek justice. It's something to think about that I feel that it's the highest. A financial minister would have had to take a more material and better position, whether it had not been a matter of principle to test the EFTA assessment and to maintain protection for the unprovable ban used in Iceland, has been carried out by the Supreme Court and has had a huge legal obligation and a decrease in financial debt of nearly 200 billion. It's no small amount of money. Of course, it has an effect on the legal basis of such decisions. In my foreign loan, I'll then speak in my second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u24	A respectable president. I found this to be a more challenging introduction. The situation is this: We can take the initiative to try to protect free loans from success. There's another way out here. It is to ensure that such loans will be provided only if there is a good foundation. But if such a case was intended to be dealt with, how would a person explain that a person with a solid income in a foreign currency, at least a foreign currency could be borrowed but could not, and there would be no rule against a successful loan? In view of ESA's logical opinion, how would people argue that in Iceland there was a rule that unprovable bans would be avoided even if you had all your income in a foreign currency, but it would be in good order to take a foreign loan? [[The president calls.]] As I have declared, these two loan forms have exactly the same properties. In view of the ESA's opinion, that hardly fits.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u25	A respectable president. Still the highest. Ministers continue to confirm my concerns. He wrote from the General's symposium that there is no difference between the loans. The Supreme Court has considered the loans to be so fundamental that he has forced financial corporations to lose 200 billion on one, not the other. It is a fundamental legal conclusion available on the part of the courts, and I do not find it comforting on the part of a financial minister to appear here and downplay that material difference. So there may be material reasons for controlling the right to foreign loans from general precautions. I agree with the highest. Minister on that end, I've told myself that this might be wise. But I also notice that the highest. A minister prefers not to comment on what I mentioned before, the great and large building here based on informed decisions made by the National Bank, which in a few days is to be removed from professional leadership. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u26	A respectable president. I agree that this was a rather strange talk by the dog. A senator, however, responds more objectively and better. It seems odd to you when you listen to a talk. A senator, especially in view of the fact that during the last term, I can't remember that exactly but what. I'm sure a senator can remember better than I can tell if he's the highest. Minister transferred the bill, but at least an approved bill involved in consumer loans. There are some who believe that we may have gone too far in borrowing people, and this may be one of the reasons why people choose largely 40 years. Perhaps the payment rate was too strict, the result of the consumer loan. It's not a topic of discussion here, but I think it matters when the chairman of the largest anti-continental party speaks of these matters, provided he agrees, that he makes it clear that it is extremely unwise, so that the year is not deeper, that people are borrowing in a different currency than they have in which they earn money, and that it doesn't matter what currency is involved. Of course, a good example is what happened when the bank crashed in Iceland. If this hadn't been judged illegally, then all those who took the loans abroad would have been in serious trouble, not to be taken deeper in the year. The bill is conditioned, and I just want to ask if it's okay. A senator is against it materially. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ The secretary can receive information from the Council Bank that provides payment on foreign loans in particular... This is at least no further than in the consumer loan bill when considering what is often called the consumer right. The idea is somehow that financial companies should know far more about these matters than borrowers, in this case, the common people. I want to ask you why. A senator: Is he following it, does he think it normal for people to borrow in another currency to earn money? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u27	A respectable president. I welcome the terms of the bill that are involved in supporting consumer rights and hindering the risk of gang peace loans and foreign loans. Hv. A senator asks me if I don't object to taking loans from other currency, but they earn money. I wouldn't advise anyone to do it, and I wouldn't dare do it myself, but I don't think it's necessary to forbid it. A lot of Icelanders, the majority of Icelanders, borrow in other currency but they get paid. They get paid in Icelandic crowns, but they borrow dollars. It is totally different from the currency. When interest increases in dollars, they reduce the price-settling dollars and, as we saw in the crash, insurance is one form of insurance. The difference between a crown of inflation and an Icelandic crown did not become as much or as a favor between foreign currency and an Icelandic crown, but it did come to be quite much. So I believe that government policy, this campaign against 40-year-old prices of loans completely incomprehensively incomprehensible and premeditated with the worst kind of sophistication when it should be treated with credit, through information to people and including. with the explanation of the 40 - year - old borrower that he is, in effect, renting his own rent for the first 15 years because of the insignia of head chairs. The key point is that the insurance system here is justifying and implementing to a certain extent is no other than the general US insurance policy. Like domestic insurance, it is less important to set Icelandic dollars with foreign currency.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u28	A respectable president. I think the biggest argument against 40 years' worth of loans is, in fact, the economic argument that when most of the people have loans, it's hard to apply the Secret Bank's operating mechanism, but we're not here to discuss it. I think it's interesting to hear this. Hv. A senator says he wouldn't advise anyone to do this, he wouldn't do it himself, but he won't forbid it. It's interesting, it may be wise for us to approach in that way. Of course, people are to be responsible for themselves. We cannot take it away, but we have, and so do we. Under the lead of the last government went very far in it. Men may call it consumer rights, but they have gone very far in creating a regular environment so that people cannot do something that governments consider unreasonable. A natural example of this is the payment of the last law. It may be said that we are going too far, and we should just try to explain to people that when things go wrong, they are responsible for their own responsibility, but that is not how the discussion has been, and surely they are not. A senator against whom I am answerable, or against his party. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u29	A respectable president. I just like to hear it. paritaprevir Guðlaug Þórðarson in a speech chair a few months after he has approved correction of 80 billion to people because of an increase in their prices beyond their expectations, he said that all he has to do is explain to people what can happen and that people should only live with the consequences of their actions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u30	You didn't listen to...?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u31	That would have been a thought for why. A senator might have come to that conclusion sooner and would have enjoyed all of us, and we could have seen other conclusions in a vote at the council on the Great Correction. Of course, the basic ideas in this matter must always be that there is a cross between consumer protection and free choice, and there is a great need for men to back it up if they intend to forbid certain factors. It's a law to allow something that is now forbidden in the case of a successful loan. As a result, my brain has been exposed to plaguing arguments, and it is impossible to resist seeing the government's declared policy of banning 40 years of prices. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u32	Madam President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for a fairly extensive speech. He went out a little bit of the bill stuff, but that's all right. Now, as it is, Iceland loans, 40 years of loans, have proved to be the loans that people with low incomes can best handle. Although high - quality and expensive, it is the option that has given low - income people a place to live. I want to ask you why. A senator may not also have to consider that if we cut down the loan period for 25 years, it will be more difficult for people with low income to obtain housing, and perhaps impossible, how much more so if we give up as much money as we pay money and cancel insurance and take up interest from all the capitals that can become unbearable. Now, in many cities, normal employees around the world cannot buy apartments or rent. There's a bit of a dangerous situation that I think we have to look at and get into a lot of things, such as building regulations and other things, but it's natural beyond this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u33	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the question. I deeply agree with him on this matter. There is no evidence to forbid a 40 - year credit loan that they are expensive, for with the same reasoning all loans could be banned and allowed only to borrow those who do not need them, of course, because it always takes to borrow money and the more money they are lent for a longer time. The nature of the situation, according to one estimate, is much more expensive than 25 years old. Hv. A senator rightly points out that it has been the most widely accepted form of low - income money. When this system was established, it was done at the same time as the social apartment system was put down by the present government categories, where very long loans were given with even lower interest rates, 1% interest rates, up to 50 years of age. It was to be arranged, and then some of the payments were to be paid in order not to make people worse. So I feel that starting out on the wrong end is forbidding 40 years of loan. The first step is to bring in another solution of property form or more reliable rent for low - income workers before the 40 - year loan is banned. Then let's talk about banning it. I also call attention to the fact that the rent price in the city of Reykjavík today is so high that if low - payingrs or young people who are going to buy a small apartment almost above their head to split out payment into an apartment, half of a rent - common rent will almost be paid by 40 years. Why is it the purpose of the government to ban this way to survival? I just don't get it, and I look forward to having it. paritaprevir Blöndalur Bjögal as an ally in trying to bring the higher understanding into this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u34	Madam President. I don't know how much I can short it up. A senator against the government, I'm her sponsor. Hv. The senator fell into the trap of talking about low - paying people, I try never to do so. People aren't born to underpayers. There is a situation that can be changed, and I feel that it is basically the goal of all politicians to change it so that low - income earners no longer have low incomes, either on the basis of more education, better jobs, or something like that. You see, it's not personality characteristics, you can't say, " He's a blue-eyed, low - incomeer. ' This is a characteristic that can be changed, and I feel that people should be determined that as many people as possible don't have a low income, on the other hand, long term. But it is true that the Iceland Bar has proved to be a suitable species for obtaining possessions, able to buy apartments at all. There is something that we need to consider. Called when these and other matters arrive.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u35	A respectable president. I don't fall into the pit of talking about underpayers, people are simply in a position of low income. It doesn't have to be for the rest of your life, but it is, and in that case you can't ignore it. Even if I want to do everything to make it possible, it is not always possible to make sure that people add. In addition to this loan plan, it is also of great interest that, despite all the discussion on insurance last loss and all the criticism of it and the negative talk, which is certainly the basis for the massive failure following the collapse, 40 years of credit loans have been the most popular option in the real estate market during the past month and loss. It is natural that the government intends to start by banning that option before developing and applying other means with people who earn little money to make housing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u36	Mr. President. I agree with the objective of the bill that if we have to yield to the European rule and open up again the possibility that money-related loans will be tried in such a way that the risks of both the respective parties and the economy are minimized by all available means. Indeed, it is true that the highest level is pointed out. The secretary of finance and in the bill that by nature there is no difference between direct foreign loans, loans in certain foreign coins, and loans that are foreign in the sense that it is linked and changed by the gang of a foreign currency or a foreign currency basket. In this respect, there is inconsistencies in the situation today and there has been a long interval since the introduction of gang-sacrifice loans. There is no need to reiterate our experience in this grave situation. She is in a position to save time by not having a long talk about it. All this time, it was extremely unfortunate and unwise and part of the criticism and complacency that prevailed when it became popular that it was the most intelligent thing to owe as the most efficient in foreign loans. It was really incredible things that happened, as when the rural communities of the country held onto this track, mostly between 2005-228, as ridiculous as it is that the A-part of the country's funds with all its income are going to play on this market, so you don't talk about individuals with perhaps the most valuable and biggest investment in your life, their apartment house. But that was the spirit of class, and for this, much propaganda was fired. Yes, the interest rate was low, and it had become quite widespread that there was a unique economic wonder going on here. Men had invented an eternity machine, here could be endless growth and goodness, and would never end. That's how many spoke, that's how bankers spoke, and it seems to have believed in many who, at least. The front of it. Unfortunately, the government also spoke. It was the country's prime minister who at one point in 2005 said that I, or early in 2006, think that it was envyful to be prime minister in a country where things were going so well. I remember this very much because it was only about two years before the collapse. It is generally very unwise. You don't have to be a doctor for economics to see it and understand that an individual or a small farm company or a small company with all their income in one currency, domestic coin, and with limited or no means of securing yourself in some way for the gang rhythms of debt like that. It's a very risky thing to do, and it went bad. I don't think it's the same today. At any rate, I wouldn't take a foreign loan if I was poor and I hired men from it, the ones I asked in the years when it was the most fashion, taking foreign loans e.g. to apartment shopping. Not all my cousins followed that fact. But I pretended to have hired them when the dollar was dropped by 44%, 50 to 660 percent to the most popular coins of Swiss francs and Japanese yen, and the head chair increased by 100% on one board. It became evident to fate that the advice may not have been as good as you thought when the loans were doomed, but there is another story, and it's sort of the crown of this bullshit all together that it should be so. However, it was clear to everyone that the plan of the Generals had been banning these loans, and the banks felt that they had bypassed it. No one said anything, no one said nothing at all when things were going well, but then, of course, after everything got fried, they tried the legitimate thing. Likely, we will try to defend ourselves against such wrongdoing again. Then a little closer to the bill. I choose to place the positive understanding of the bill's aim that the meaning is to give in to ESA threats of action against the Icelandic state, lawsuits, and even chance that we could lose it in a court of law, which would be an expedition that is no reason to put it into practice so that we have little chance of winning that case. So you might wonder, " Do I want to defend the situation completely unchanged or do I want someone else to harm this arrangement, which I agree to be reasonable? ' And the advantage of taking such a course is that we will be able not only to care for the success of loans but also to make foreign loans. I understand this so that, as with any precautionary device, it will apply to, e.g. Those with income in domestic currency owe themselves overindulgingly in foreign loans or in dwindling loans. We will certainly be extending this in addition to dealing with the problems associated with ESA comments. Then we'll see how the bill works. I'm not making any comments to 2.k. and I think it's normal to equalize foreign loans, as well as gang insurance loans and classes in the sense of 2 gr. Then comes the law of a change in Iceland's Federal Bank. It has been developed so that the Shared Bank is permitted to recommend a financial arena to set loans for foreign loans. This is of interest in itself because it is at one point at the Federal Bank. It operates on the basis of law and has a specific role to protect the level of financial status and is assumed in the law that it will direct recommendations for action if needed. However, it would likely be possible to resolve somehow differently, so that the Fendolman could do this himself if he thought so, not necessarily need a financial status recommendation. The path selected here is a little indirect. It is not an option to set some type of law, set the law frame on the limitations we would like to apply for this, but on the basis of financial standards and then, in the rules of consumer loans, that, in payment of such restrictions or conditions, it is permitted. This is a natural nod to the point of establishing material limits on how people earn in domestic dollars or with little financial potential can take risks or be in debt to foreign currency. I'm just hanging out with these equipment on the case for a minute. Now, can it be said that these are the laws that apply, the consumer loan laws, and the Sentiment Act, but have to go that clear? Is not to some extent possible at least That the Council itself imposes the restrictions on this in law? Is that better for ESA? Does it serve any purpose? Is such a course different from the fact that they consider this the most practitional arrangement? I thought it was a reason for you to go to the top. The minister of finance would do it a little better. Why is this the case built up? Why is it a relatively indirect way to achieve the goal of setting up limited rules? It is done on the other hand, by allowing the Federal Bank on the basis of financial standards to deal with the rules, and then a minister, on the basis of the U.S. Bank's review, on the condition of the Council, in line with the opinion that this and the rest should be available if a person is going to borrow a foreign coin or a gangstay loan. I feel that this is worthwhile and that it would be worth considering whether someone is convinced that the easiest way to do this is to go in this parenthesis. That is a thought - provoking point. I'm not going to say a lot about this because I have a potential situation to follow up on a committee unless it's going to a professional committee that's a little fashiony right now, I don't know. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I thought it might be an economic and business committee, and then I have a place to look at it. But I had the truth to prepare myself, and to expect; for it is not new for me to consider this matter, that we should some extent put it into the law of law. I'm asking, for example.: Is there a problem with the fact that Part A is simply forbidden to borrow a foreign coin or a dwindling loan? Would anyone like to repeat it when some of the large rural communities began to borrow foreign loans, and even one of the large rural communities in the country on foreign loans came under payment? Of course, it's no good for a public person to get into a kind of payout on loans from abroad, we'd probably like to avoid it, and I would have been able to prevent it if men had taken care of them. It is similar with employees or individuals. It's obvious that it's turning a little different to lawmakers. At any rate, some of them have all their income in foreign currency, can be highly dependent on the economy, small services, etc. True, there are individuals with direct incomes in foreign currency, and they can be well protected, those who work in part abroad, or who have contracts to be paid in foreign coins. In view of the fact that the partial exchange system usually makes them a participant of the fall of the crown's success, etc. [[Up front.]] Of course, it's not possible to get over it, but going through payoffs, etc., won't it be a bit complicated? When it comes to dealing with one's credit institutions, do not circumstances vary very differently? People say, I guess I have money to borrow foreign loans. I have part of my income in foreign currency, or I have some of my possessions in foreign currency or I'm at sea and I'm pretty well - off if I fell a dollar, or something like it. That would be a long discussion, Mr. President. The main point of the matter is, so I repeat it: To the extent that we are in need of one option to change from the current organization's comments from ESAs, I am a spokesman that we make only a minimum of what is needed to escape it and that we take very careful action to the ground before we open to the possibility of a new game that humans can take an unfavourable risk in these matters, although of course men should have their own knowledge and bear responsibility for themselves. You can't keep talking about these matters in Iceland as if they're not responsible for the loans they're taking and the debts they're paying. I think that's enough of that. It must always be kept in mind that, in the end, humans must be responsible for what they are doing in these matters, but it is proper and obliged to inform people and to have the rules clearly, with the best of men, to overlook the risks and dramatic harm that we now know through a bitter experience that can become if we act unwisely on these matters. I'd like the careful step. It would be all right in itself to find out if our initial responses in this respect had been satisfactory and if so, have been more comfortable at the bottom of the process. It is true that in exchange for the exchange of words, this mechanism of action makes it very clear to the Council which the material conclusion will be made, because it should come only later on on the basis of its sources as minister and Secret Bank, and it is entrusted to them to make rules afterwards. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u37	A respectable president. In celebration of comment. A candidate for the arrangement outlined in Article 3. and 5. .., it is time to assume in the bill that there is any agreement that the requirements are implemented. This is discussed in a report on Article 3. and to point out that meetings of financial status are prepared by the System Management Board, where there is a bank manager, an assistant bank manager sitting, president and vice president of the FDA and one expert appointed by the secretary. This arrangement together with what we have been working on elsewhere, such as The law on public financial matters is all thought that others would have a perspective on these matters. The same is true of 5. ... that a minister should consult the Office of Jehovah's Witnesses, receive his guidance when paying certain conditions, so that a full perspective should be taken into consideration when setting the rules for these matters. Of course, the main purpose of the matter is to cut back on foreign loans and, on the other hand, eliminate unscrupulous bans on successal loans but to limit them severely. Of course, when it comes to a conversation that can take place between loans and financial institutions, it is always so that the financial agency can set a far more strict standard than in this case and simply put it in line that foreign loans will be given only to those with a foreign income. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But here, only the outside limits are being set for the financial system.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u38	Mr. President. I'm not at odds with this, and it's just as the secretary of finance points out that the members of this body prefer to be part of a financial arena and a lot of wisdom sitting on the World Risk Committee, and it's the most successful group that will discuss it before the Secret Bank receives the recommendations from the financing to set the rules of loans. The same can be said of a certain degree of payment, but the fact is that this is the case, in fact, chosen to do nothing in the law. Here, of course, are excellent explanations, that are listed in a report and, in part, in the bill, what is that is that bases the limitations. But in other respects, the goal of these parties is to set limits afterwards. That's why I ask, that's the next question, good and good: Has this been prepared? Can we see the signs that the precautions to follow here should be followed on the basis of the law? Wouldn't it be nice if the package was smart? It is omnipotent as it is today with the Council, it must be acknowledged, and it is always a poem in the language. I would have liked to know about that, if not now in opposition to the council panel: How far have men come to prepare? The late bank has talked about these various precautions, just as soon after a collapse, when people wondered what life could be like after a collapse and abduction of the currency tanks, so there must be something in the pocket about it. Can we see the outline of the precautions involved?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u39	Mr. President. It is a serious matter to consider whether to write the rules of the law or to leave the Pentateuch as Article 3. will assume, and the minister like the 5th parr. ... assumesit..to setthe rules and expand them further in the spirit of the law. This arrangement is set up, and there are some ideas and ideas that I would probably like to be introduced to the commission so that men are better informed and that would mean the handling of the matter through the council. It's probably taking that discussion and getting a perspective on the ideas that have already begun at the Ministry of finance, as well as on this at the Federal Bank.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u40	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I'm glad that we get to see all the cards and few, even though it's an incomplete drawing form, to see the rules that men have thought of in these activities and the work that has already been done or where the case is going to be true today. I believe the General needs to put on this independent assessment, and I am not yet convinced of the methodology. At least I have the right to maintain a view that we could do things differently, that we might be able to live up to it in the law, that we might set these material conditions, and that we could follow the way that is often popular and wise to do. We could have some clean lines, for example. Like the ones I mentioned, just decide that part A is part of a community, it's different with partners and Part B, etc., don't make a debt in foreign coins.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u41	A respectable president. I strongly agree with what. A senator said that it is quite normal to place this authority on the law. It was customary here in ancient times to hide lawgivers, but this is not in any way in harmony with man - made legal requirements today. I just wanted to ask the senator if the judges we've received from EFTA and the European Union's reviews on the insurance policy that the home state of the country itself may not be admissible with all the requirements of insurance, have quite much to say about the implementation of individual insurance, whether it's a success insurance policy or an index insurance policy on spending or any other reference number. Is that not determined by the opinion we have come up with regarding the insurance? Then I'd like to ask who. A senator, who was here at council 2001, was under ban on these regulations, i.e. If you want, trust your loan. It was then by references that the Secret Bank's management interest rates had to bite, we had a small currency, and it would be necessary to influence the loans, so it would be necessary to ban this loan form, that would actually be a success in Icelandic loans. If a financial minister's conclusion is that it is not possible to ban a policy insurance policy, can it not create a longer period of problems for Iceland's state that it is forbidden to ban the Anticipation of the European System, but at the same time we try to keep a foreign currency and, in fact, protect it from the international impacts to which it must remain? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u42	Mr. President. Yeah, I think it's pretty clear that we have quite a lot of authority to process this. It just has to be. We would not be an economic nation if we did not have the authority to place various precautions in legislation on such matters. The right country when it comes to as important a thing as defending financial stability is natural indiscriminate. Then there are some things that are known to be. It's true, because there is a strange situation where ESAs count this fraction of the four freedoms in a country of currency. It is certainly funny to discuss it out of that friendship, but perhaps they overlook them in this case and imagine that this is not a permanent thing. I'm not worried that we can put in very strong precautions. In terms of the prohibition in his day, yes, this would probably have been one of the arguments. Now I don't exactly remember how the subject was discussed. I guess people were also aware that there might be risks for people to play in this game. It is true that with the economy and the growth sector, it is natural that when the larger portion of the library in the country has come aside, the interest may be temporarily influenced by low foreign interest rates or, of course, that insurance will reduce the value of the name interest scale. There is no doubt that it would be best if every debt in this country were then in an unscrupulous state of Icelandic dollars so that interest decisions about them would be made to the full.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u43	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator, who believes that the Council should legally legalize such loans as any available and considered possible by the committee. But I'd like to ask why. A member of the United States recently objected to whether he is not concerned about the inequities of the city. Prior to total failure in 2006, 2007, and 2008, and the success of the loans, many of these loans were used for privileged groups, for people who had a lot of money or who had been given a very high payment, as agreed in these rules. Does the senator not worry that there may be two types of loans, one of which is a very favorable loan on the low interest rates associated with foreign currency risks for the wealthy, for high - income workers, and for people with income in foreign currency and then the Icelandic loans with enormous interest in the public?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u44	Mr. President. So I'll answer the second question first, then the answer's yes. Yes, I'm concerned, I just introduced it in my speech. I told myself I could imagine that if this route is gone through conditions during the payment, those who consider themselves to be fit in practice will try to convince the loan board that they are capable of taking such a loan. If the times again take place, such loans, foreign loans, or gang insurance on very low interest rates, and people consider that to be favorable, it would not be good if they were to be influenced by mostly economic status, income, and possessions. From the other end, it can be said that those who have small tables for the table are more natural to be exposed to the risk - material in themselves. However, the result could well be discrimination in terms of the individual's debt.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u45	Mr. President. It's not often that I've been a little terrified of this chair in the last few decades, and it's kind of half of mind that I'm allowing myself to disagree with someone like that. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon and Helgi Hjörvar are involved in a mountain backway or a correct route to the bill by assuming these rules. I think it's a better way. This is because it makes the system much more flexible, it will be quicker to respond instead of having to take it through each of the three discussions at the General Assembly. I think there are things that can be added to the law, but not much more than that. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon said here about the A-part of the community. But that's not what I'm coming up here. I wondered if these laws are necessary, and I noticed why. paritaprevir Steingrímur J.'s Sigfússon said: "If necessary. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he thinks it is necessary to do so because of the ESA, whether he has studied it, he is a man's guide. The other is so much. The minister of finance presents this matter in his speech. It's a bill for the law of allowing but forbidding. V.E.G. A minister literally said that this would lead to ordinary citizens avoiding borrowing. However, it would be all right for those who earn money in a foreign currency to receive such loans. I can agree with that. But the highest. A minister also said something else. However, he said: "Those who have much possessions can turn into a foreign currency. " We should give them the benefit of the doubt. I'm asking why. A senator whether this is not against our vision as equal. Is it not under pressure from two groups in the community? On the one hand, it is those who are to receive the benefit of the doubt; on the other hand, it is a mistake.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u46	Mr. President. Sadly, as in the past, communication cannot be ruled out as one of many things that can produce a certain economic benefit. That's right. Of course, he is at hand in so many other respects. Whether this alone is there a heavy load, I shall not say, but it is absolutely correct, it is possible that there will be two countries in this country in this respect, if it is, for example, that it is considered sufficient to have a certain amount of debt that you think you have an economic buffer and can do whatever you want, take the risk you want in these substances. If back in life there were times when foreign loans or gang insurance loans could be borrowed, some might take advantage of this. Of course, if the rate of growth on the market here is much more and much higher, we know that it can be almost bypassed in the pursuit of interest. Of course it was what was happening on a large scale, e.g. When the real estate market and stock market were infested, people could borrow foreign loans on the low-growing interest rates. Then they borrowed money, and they put it in fruit, and they made a great deal of money for years, played on it a million, and put another million on bail in that million, and took two million more, and four times in gear, and put it in a pot for fruitfulness. Hence, all of this needs to be considered on the basis of what the consequences may be. I don't know if we have to do this out of ESA remarks I don't trust myself to answer it completely here. I haven't been looking at this recently. I received my first statements from the ESA, or at least I knew they were in the lake while I took those matters in 2012/2013. Then I could see what was coming about, but I haven't observed the case so much that I have read, for example, now that I have been writing ESAs about it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u47	Mr. President. This bill brings out two things to me as a boy. A senator in himself doesn't have to agree with me. First of all, it's a blow to the fact that we don't live here with independent coins without putting so much walls between us and the world that at least ordinary citizens will not be able to cross them. Second, I thought it was the highest. Also, a minister would say that we had to accept such orders from the European Union without even if the Supreme Court had reached a different conclusion. It made a difference to me. The other in my mind is that if it's necessary to do this, which I'm not completely convinced of, it will highlight a definite difference, e.g. On me and the highest. Prime Minister. He can always borrow those qualities. I, the bum, will not, however. [[The president calls.]] I think it's a little awkward. She leaves a tiny bitter world in my tasteless mouth.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u48	Mr. President. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator is too pessimistic. Real estate prices have now gone up in the West Side. I'm not sure but what. A senator considered himself to be a town to take at least a small loan, a foreign loan. [[Figuratively speaking, a small loan?]] Not a little loan, but such a little loan. I do not understand - and there may be a slight difference between friends - that this matter in itself is always about this good old discussion of whether a dollar is completely ruined or not. This is, of course, because we're in the EEA. There is freedom to transport capital, freedom to confirm and to perform services here, as well as to members of the European Union or EEA, who have their own currency. That's what this is especially about. The question is, To what extent is this possibility applied? It is a measure of faith in our own currency.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u49	V.E.G. President. I come up here because I think it's a reason for me to do that when this bill is presented. Now I have listened to fine talks, and I am now going to regret that the possibility of taking a foreign loan that is considered to be a foreign and professional in Icelandic dollars is only natural, as it is reasonable to apply the same precautionary principle as for other loans that are given. It is strange, however, that credit is being legalized in the Icelandic kronos, which are linked to a pavilant number. There's an increasing number of insurance options, while the government's aim is to cancel the insurance policy. That's kind of what makes me come up here and discuss the bill. I wish, as others have done, that it will be thoroughly considered whether this is really necessary, whether it will be so fierce. It is also good to remember in this regard that the present government seems to have the most impact on its policy sheet of isolation from being able to influence the rules we are to submit to in this country. It is under threat of a proposal to withdraw the application of the EU without knowing what it may involve in the interests of the Icelanders, but at the same time there are accepted non-critical rules from the same relationship. It is also remarkable that there seems to be a better way to add to the Icelandic dollar's insurance policy than to fulfill the promise that will make all the world before elections. Every candidate for the advance party in the last days of the campaign forced the fact that this was the category that was going to eliminate insurance, that was to be banned from new consumer loans. We haven't seen anything of that procedure. Yes, there have been committees, they have yielded results, but it seems quite possible to process them. I just got an answer from the highest. Prime Minister on how the government intends to eliminate insurance. He repeated this announcement about the Ministry's Homepage since May last year, where some adjustments were announced. No bill has been observed in that direction, and more than that, it says that the effects of these changes should be assessed in 2016. It's gonna be a pretty small effect that we'll see them, because there's no change yet and it's been February 2015. Thus, it can be said that, besides 80 billion demolitions on debt, which, of course, are of course, of particular value to more material households, and that we ourselves can use our special savings in paying down mortgages, this is the main way we see how to provide housing for the Icelandic home; to allow them to borrow in Icelandic dollars, which is limited to the plagiarism and only the more wealthy homes in the country. The other homes, average and low income homes, they only live in private insurance, and they eagerly wait for bills to change housing that have been called here in the second year and no scars yet. We must hold on to hope, but it's not top priority, it's not as important as the case where the government submits to EFTA. We're supposed to follow that rules, and I'm not making it down, but in that case, there seems to be a greater willingness to do than when it comes to implementing election promises and working in favor of the average worker in Iceland and making sure people live in security. That was for that reason, Mr. President, that I saw myself forced to come up here. I think this case reflects the priorities we have with our present government. I'm not going to take over the fact that there are certain good things here, but I'm sorry that the willingness to do the first thing is to make it easier for more material and property households in Iceland to take a more favorable loan instead of going to the system changes in the mortgages and housings needed to ensure security in the country. A growing number of people are experiencing a great sense of insecurity in a housing market, this is creating an emergency, and it is completely unacceptable that the government gives them wealth. The bill is changing the interest laws. They have been changed in the past, but none of the changes have led to the big campaign program of decommissioning insurance. A lot of people believed that the advance party was actually going to do something about these matters, the forward party said that the government had shown that they were indifferent and that nothing had been done. Of course, the fact is that insurance, an unscrupulous arrangement, has a long history here as a result of inflation and is linked into the entire financial system as well as the pension system, and it takes courage to work on it. Now there are circumstances for working on it because of low inflation and increasing real estate prices. The lack of action in these activities is a failure for all who were able to achieve just the promise of decommissioning insurance. I encourage members of the State Department, especially the campaign members who blogged and wrote articles and talked in television and radio about disparagement of insurance, putting pressure on their ministers to work in harmony with their policy, to work in harmony with the Constitution, and to bring in the council for the benefit of ordinary employees, not the richest homes. Enough of this has not been done, whether it is a tax issue or any other intentional action. But the action the category was elected on, the decommissionment procedure, there's no sign of anything. I suggest that in the progress of the economic and business committee the only action in this council, the two members of the government, or whether it is really going to fulfill the big promises.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u50	A respectable president. We'll discuss this bill to correct the change in growth and insurance laws, the Secret Bank laws and the consumer loan laws. It's about precautions on foreign loans. What is the reason why we speak about enforcing foreign loans or loans that may result in foreign currency when we realize how much damage such loans may bring? The motive is the case of ESAs, who have reasoned with the evidence that it is not possible to forbid loans in Icelandic credits with criteria for foreign currency because of some kind of barrier to free capital transport. This is certainly a long fever, especially when it comes to saying that it is not really an obstacle to foreign investors to grant Icelandic loans in foreign currency, which is then lent in foreign currency, but ESAs also indicate the inconsistencies in banning other types of foreign loans and not the others. So if we were to ban foreign gang peace loans in Icelandic dollars, we would probably have to put the same ban on foreign loans and also have to change 14 grams. legal on growth and insurance, where credit agreements are allowed to go to foreign stock-counting countries. In his judgment, ESA pointed out that if a state was to impose some restrictions on voluntary capital transport, it would have to be completely consistent in the procedure. The other way is to adopt the forbidden ban on one type of foreign loans and, at the same time, set reasonable rules, instead of this undisputed ban, that reduces the harm. Here we are, and it's a good thing that with the bill it's been set rules on money borrowed from foreign currency that have been used here and put a more sophisticated frame on it. Why are these loans usually harmful? There's a good chapter about it in comments to the bill and a few reasons are given. It is acknowledged that as foreign loans spread more in communities and people and businesses borrow in coins other than they earn, they can lead to a very high economic instability and a longer crisis. This also includes distinctions between community groups. Those who are wealthy and who can show that they can endure the tragedy because their loan is mutagenic or goes up quickly can have a taste for others who cannot prove to be able to endure it. In itself, there is a difference. Opinions may differ as to whether such discrimination is desirable. The more important thing is that those who borrow money but they earn money weigh the risk to society. It is not just their private affairs but may result in the failure of creditors, banks, to get into trouble that can lead to the high cost of the government and the taxpayers. We have seen examples of this, and that is a very good description of it in the bill on page 20. 15, which quotes the Secret Bank, which shows what can happen when people who don't make money in a foreign land borrow foreign money. In effect, because of their lack of foreign income, they have been earmarked in part of the population's currency income. They only earn dollars, but they are committed to paying their dues. And when the economy is down, such borrowers may run to and try to limit their damage by paying off foreign loans before the problem gets worse. If a number of unsurpassed persons do this at the same time and become very attendance at our common currency budget, the dollar may get very fast. So this is, in fact, not as much of a personal matter and not as much of a matter of freedom in general as you might think to allow it just to take your personal risk on the matter. This is a risk the whole community has to carry with these partners. That is why there are conditions for setting such good rules. You can also remember that things can happen very quickly. Notes with the bill also tell us how home owes itself in foreign coins to 320 billion almost in two years. This happened very quickly, and this home went into a financial crisis as the dollar fell about 44%, if I remember correctly, and the loan went up high to 100%, because as soon as the dollar goes down, the loan actually goes up more and more. So the damage we gain is clear and the importance of minimising the damage resulting from such loans and ensuring that only those who truly have the ability to borrow such a loan will be able to do so. This will be discussed in the articles on the bill, e.g. in an article on a change in the law on Iceland's National Bank. It suggests that Cordors will be granted legal recommendations from financial facilities to set loans on foreign loans in order to limit loans to nonpayers. I agree with the viewpoint presented in the discussion that it may be appropriate for the council to consider giving strong counsel. It can be very difficult when the party is next to removing the ball from the reception. It is better to do so now, while we are concerned about the wooders. We members of the Parliament must do so now, learn from the mistakes they made. It is not beyond the understanding of members of Congress to accept the Catholic position that it is always bad that those who do not earn foreign coins borrow foreign coins. If the U.S. Senate agrees, then the United States of Congress will set such a law. I don't think the ESA will make any comment to that. The only comment ESA makes on such loans is an unscrupulous rule. A chemical prohibition would be considered, which highlights general rules that apply to all and contribute to the financial stability of a people who are in poor economic systems, fluctuating economy, fluctuating, while big nations will ever live. Under such circumstances, there is good reason for caution. It will, of course, do it, call out guests who are skilled experts in these fields, experts from the Federal Bureau of Economics, and others who are interested in helping the Committee. I'm sure it's the highest. A minister will surely look into it if the committee proposes to speak more strongly. It might be used in a way where the council, or committee, would suggest what was the absolute limit of reason in foreign loans and the crews to avoid future problems, and then have the legal authority for financial standards and the Council Bank to go further if they felt that they needed it. Granted, there is a view that those and the companies who have real income in foreign currency and invest in a currency may owe themselves foreign currency, and that is desirable. There are many ways to limit such borrowing. This is naturally done primarily by informing borrowers. It would seem that only professional investors would be invited to take such a loan, perhaps a perfunctory position. In fact, this proposal does not appear in the bill, but professional investors are entrusted with making more risky financial investments than common consumers. Then companies and professional investors who can demonstrate the potential to earn money in foreign coins or crowns that depend on such coins can borrow and be aware of themselves, and it would never be so much that a social problem would arise or grow on financial instability for which there is an abundance. A word of caution might be said to say that income is always in the coin or insurance on the coin borrowed, some of which could be required for loan time because the longer the loan is taken, the greater the risk is taken from the development of currency. You might demand that the loan be not a single loan at the end, a so - called ball loan, but a more balanced amount of time. Or there may be some requirement for the lender's responsibilities, that he be guilty of the risks of such borrowing, or that he may have to endure as a loan agency to take on more credit if he gave such a loan, e.g. twice as much as a dollar's loan. Other such measures may be made to make the loan more clear to the borrower that it is clear that he cannot borrow with little interest, while he ponderes the risk to society. There needs to be a much more context in this. Well, I've listed the main points, but it may not be ours in advance to have anything other than speculation. The Commission will take all of this into consideration, and I think that what is positive with the bill is that it becomes more consistent with what we are doing, consistent with foreign loans, whether they are given in crowns or in foreign coins and how it is taken care that they will be given nothing other than those who are able to manage these loans and who have income on that coin, and who do not approve of social problems.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u51	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his speech, and especially, it is important to have his view as the chairman of the committee here at 1st. I see why. In fact, a senator feels that the interpretation of the judgment in the suggestions presented here is far more extensive than the material. I get it. It is true that he even considered it a reason for the council to legalize only actually -- well, not a grammatical ban, but a grammatical source as narrow as possible within this ESA opinion, e.g. so that individuals would be permitted to take such loans if they earn money in foreign coins and for the time they earn secure in that coin, but do not go further with individuals in view that tens of thousands have taken such loans? I'd like to ask who, too. A member of Parliament: If his view is that the ban on law 2001 and the Supreme Court has not been legalized, has it not? If that is the conclusion, does the senator worry that such interpretations may result in an improvement in the rights of those who have suffered because their requirements based on gangstad loans were greatly reduced by the Supreme Court's judgment on the loans of success based on the law set here in 2001?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u52	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the questions. As to the previous senator's question on whether it is worth considering legalizing the issues and grammatical limitations, I think it must be the responsibility of the committee to wonder if they can do so. It could be just like that. A senator mentions, based on the fact that if a person earns money in foreign coins and for any time, how far the borrower pays on the coin, the risk must be controlled and the nature of the case. I think it's almost minimal, and I'd be surprised if financial standards didn't immediately bring in such regulations. It is very important to do so now, not someday, when the problem begins to grow. You can't do it over time, so now is the time. Then consider the complex, legal question. A senator pointed to me, and I don't trust myself to evaluate how this will affect what has happened before.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u53	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answers. Then I'd like to ask him about the communities. I thought it was pretty loose at the top of the rope. The secretary of finance is measuring a bill to legalize this important matter and suggests that some of the rules in the Ministry of Internal Affairs were being developed to form a community loan. I would have thought that such factors would need to be fully developed before the matter was presented at the council, let alone a recommendation. So I ask. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigrunjarjarsson whether he believes that the committee will simply address in the law itself, that rural societies are simply forbidden to borrow of this kind, since their income is in a domestic currency. Then it is unavoidable to ask this odd sense of growth and insurance, but rather than the previous one, this bill is about to turn anything about the price insurance promised by the Agency. There is not even a ban on longer price insurance loans, as was promised in the Government's compromise list for this winter, but a delay to make a case expire after a few weeks. How is it that the license of gang insurance loans is placed here in a special priority but not by any of the bills promised by the moveees to dissociate the insurance? And why are the interest laws being opened with this bill without at least taking over the Iceland loans? Or is the advance party not going to follow the mother of all campaign halls, decommission of insurance?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u54	A respectable president. With regard to the second question, the speed on this matter is explained naturally, as I think the highest. Ministers have come to see that ESAs are pushing for this to be done, but ESAs have no consequences on the insurance policy. She's in charge of the work at the Ministry. But here's a priority to save the cost of a lawsuit that's going to start. With regard to rural society, it might be possible for some rural society to make money in foreign currency or to have some investment opportunity that created their foreign income currents, it cannot be excluded. I think general rules, if they're well built, should be able to hold on to societies, companies and the public. A community that has long - term income in foreign currency, why should it not be able to borrow foreign coins if it was practical? I'm not quite ready to make up my mind on that matter, but there's something we will, of course, consider on the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u55	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator's excellent review of the bill available here and his vision of it. What I want to do in my answer is to continue with a question as a question. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar brought in on the insurance policy. Even though it was. A senator gave an answer that the reason why this case, new gang insurance, is stated over the insurance policy of events or a focus for the government is because of ESA lawsuits, however, is that the forward squad specifically foretold the last elections and perhaps not least those now sitting on the Minister's chair, without me going to read to each other here. A senator said what others said, that it was a simple task that could be done in a short time if the will was there. In order to follow this, a report was made at the beginning of the season, and it stated that some changes should be made at the beginning of 2015, including the change to forbid the so - called 40 - year price - guarantee loan. It is now the beginning of 2015. We've got legislation opening. In response to my inquiry during the fall, the highest was said. Social and housing minister that the project is in the hands of the Ministry of Economics and Economics. I'd like to ask you what. In view of the fact that the government is not actually meeting the budget on bail, that the Ministry of finance is drawing its feet and whether the Committee will consider the first steps proposed in the report.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u56	I have to confess to myself that I've been able to speak for bail in the campaign, that I wanted to take out insurance, and that it was possible, but I also agreed that some kind of predestination should be carried out on its effect, and that it was done. The result was as good as any. A senator, mentioned that the 40 - year loan was banned and then considered in 2016 the effects of this and the next steps. I think there's a process going on. If I know right, it's on the topic list for that bill to come out. Granted, the law is being opened by this bill, and it would certainly be an opportunity to perform both aspects at once, but they are very different and may not be right for the council to discuss them at the same time in the same bill. I don't know what's in it, my lack of experience caused by a senator. But I have no reason to believe that the matter will not be revealed. If a minister wants to do that by using this bill, I think there is no defence on the committee on my part to assist him in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u57	A respectable president. This is where the code of the Law is being opened, and the cards are shown by how they set priorities. It is rather decided to prioritize ESAs, which are pushing men with specific factors and storing the government's complete plans on how they intend to do one of the greatest campaigns of the last election, on destabilizing insurance. That's exactly what it says in the report, the highest. During the Christmas discussion, a minister said that there would be a close follow-up, that at the beginning of 2015, this first step will be taken. They are not phases, although this is obviously a significant part of opening up the same legislation that had to be opened in that case. So it's only natural for us to talk about it. Why do I say that? This is because when these promises are made, big expectations arise in a large group of people. We all know how much it takes to live up to the insurance policy that she's going through the homes of the country. Therefore, there is no easy way to look at people's expectations. They are real, and they were created by politicians who promised to do this. That is why, a respectable president, is so important that people show that they mean business. Other politicians said in this chair in favor of elections that it was not possible to eliminate insurance in the way that men talked about here, especially campaigners in leading the last election. I think we're here to see a picture of people being able to understand it slowly, even in the end of the election, that it is a challenge not to cancel insurance, or that it can be done correctly with the will to arms after lunch or after the next election, but to be a tricky job, and it was not the right thing to create expectations, as it were in the leading of the last election. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u58	A respectable president. Hv. A senator wants to interpret that since these laws are not done at once, when these laws are opened, change, and reduce insurance prices, or reduce the amount of insurance that is permitted in the process, they cannot do so. I don't think it can be interpreted that way. I would just say that there can be very good reasons why such changes do not appear in this particular matter. I don't think it's good to interpret this, so now it's completely impossible that the Minister will live by what he has said to be true. I've heard at the council when the law opens up that much more is now being done, but maybe it's suggested in the bill that opens the law, but I don't think that's necessarily a good habit. I think we need to discuss each case individually. It is not difficult to open laws or difficult to close them, and I believe that it is not a good practice to pick out other items, no matter how important they may be, but to discuss each matter materially on its terms and to get to that point.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u59	A respectable president. There's a fairly remarkable bill here, and that's all we're gonna say. The bill is of utmost importance, and it is about a subject that has remained constant in the discussion since the collapse. The bill turns to two. This is not a extensive bill, for those who have not studied it. It is only eight short articles, and it is in fact that two, one of the rules of borrowing foreign coins, foreign loans, are being squeezed. That's the second thing. The rest of this is of utmost importance, but it clearly states that the loans of Icelandic loans that are inarcesurable, insured by foreign currency are permitted. Of course, it's remarkable that this is because these are the so - called gang insurance loans that the Supreme Court stated on June 16, 2010, in two courts that were prohibited, had been banned, despite long business practices. It was not, in fact, about the fine legal rights the businessman has in these Supreme Court cases, but it was estimated that long customers were borrowing from Icelandic crowns in foreign coins. The Supreme Court found out, as the people know, that by references to VI. the interest laws listed here have actually been prohibited from borrowing in Icelandic kronos and building such loans. Now we have a few years behind and hundreds of court decisions, I think I can claim, at least More than 100, who have discussed a number of such loans and still do not fully cover the outcome of all of the cases. It comes to the point that EFTA claims it was, since the Supreme Court considers the success of the loan illegal, illegally not to allow the loans to be successful. In view of that, this bill is being passed, in order for Iceland to meet its commitment to the European Union through the EEA Convention. This is remarkable in that it is being made clear that a loan that the Supreme Court had found to be illegal, if legal, will be successful. I'm glad you're here. I'm glad we're taking a stand for that. I'd like to mention two things in that relationship. It is quite remarkable to serve in this council hall, where I have at times found things to be upside down. Hv. People I would have thought would express their firm stand on a certain matter often change their mind, faster than can be thrown at. There is no reference to calming anyone who is going to be in the conference hall in some sort of ideal struggle, to have a word with members of Congress who may appear to be different from yourself but who in particular seem to have a completely different opinion from their main point of view. I mention it because I listened attentively to a talk. paritaprevir Regarding this bill, the aged Árnason of Páll pointed to a point worthy of imitation. It's probably Iceland's right to the European Union in our EEA community, and looking for a release if we think it's necessary. I personally believe Iceland doesn't do it to a lot of money and it's really something that needs to be done. Hv. paritaprevir The Árni Páll Árnason, president of the United States, felt that this case was such a matter that we should have made it possible for someone to forbid a loan of gang peace. I don't agree, but I love it. A senator believes that EFTA somehow has the wrong view of this matter. I believe this bill from the highest. Secretary of finance, my fine chairman, is full of foreseeism. This stipulates not to lend loans unless tax evaluations reveal that he obviously has financial qualifications to meet significant changes. I highlight two terms that are ecstatic. This is a legal arrangement that we have learned that it is very special for us to make trouble for the future, i.e. that they can hang into such speech when it goes badly and a loan that may have been excited about taking a duplicable loan later claims that he had no financial opportunities to deal with it, and the financial agency might have realized it and thus tried to shift responsibility from bad loans to the financial company. In fact, in the bill it is attempted to respond to this economist point by laying there so that a minister can obtain a report of payment on foreign loans. In other words, it is assumed that a minister would be able to set some rules so that the evaluable standards would somehow be attached in a text. I count, and the highest. Of course, there was good reason for this. A financial and business committee should take a specific look at this, whether it should even be further attached, so that instead of a warrant for this in the bill that a minister needs to establish such rules. On the other hand, I would like to take a warning against such things. I believe there are financial institutions next to making rules about this, taking responsibility for their loans. Of course, there should be a requirement for initial participation in terms of individual payment and to be made known before individuals or companies reach out for loans. This is done by law on consumer loans. I think it is much better to believe that the rules on this are in the custody of financial institutions, since we must not forget that the responsibility for foreign loans or loans and the well - established loans of success should be extended to financial institutions. You can't do what people have done before the collapse, I don't talk about after a crash, that free financial institutions are responsible in this respect by suggesting, as men often have, that people are going to save financial institutions in a crisis when they get in trouble because of bad loans. That's what I wanted to say, and I hope that's what I'm doing. A financial and business committee will take into account whether freedom of the agreement is fundamentally respected and not just a set of rules for creditors, but it is not the Minister or the Councilman who has hands in it. I'd like to end up with one thing, which is less, and perhaps more than a kverulant, and that's an definition. The bill includes the definition of foreign loans. It is suggested that it be called a foreign loan that is borrowed in a foreign currency or a dwindling loan. It says that borrowing in a foreign currency is a loan from a currency other than the U.S. dollar, a success loan is found in Icelandic dollars where capitals and payments, etc. depending on the changes in foreign currency gangs. In other words, a foreign loan is being suggested as the equivalent of a loan in foreign coins and loans in Icelandic dollars. I think it's unfortunate. This is neither in accordance with the language, evidently, nor in the legal language that has been used, for example, in the courts of the Supreme Court, nor in the judicial hearings of others. So I want to pray. The Economic and Business Committee has to look specifically at the definition proposed in Article 2. and consider whether or not to use the wording in order to improve the grammar and the use of the term in law.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u60	Mr. President. Hv. A senator complained that there were times when it would be difficult to speak with members of those sales because they were not sufficiently ideologicalally trapped in the attack and that some ousted. I was waiting for the possibility that the same would be the case. A senator. Hv. A senator is known to have strong, firm opinions that, in certain cases, stand out as different from my opinions and clearly in some cases from her own party brothers. As always for this good family, she does not fail my hopes. Of course, it came out what I was waiting to see and hear. A senator would be in a hurry, and that is the prescientism of this bill. I consider myself to be a classic matchmaker, and I don't have a few hideouts in that I probably think I have rules about how to behave in financial matters and, in fact, have to say more share with me, defined myself far more as a French-than-Bloonist. The French are, like, whisk. A senator knows, something stuck, and she would likely say backward about her vision of how the State is to enter the economy and at work. For me, the bill's a serious prescientist. I'm not making any disagreements about that. But, hey. A senator is well - known to talk about politics in a way that allows a person to be free, free of will, subject to consequences, individual and business alike. But this is where they're taking away their custody. And right, yeah. A senator who doesn't want to be out of his league finds it, I think. Here's the question. In order for her not to wander, she has to show it in some way when it comes to a decisive decision. That's why I want to ask her: Will she support this custody bill, so I use her own words?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u61	A respectable president. I sometimes worry about what we do. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson often agrees on various matters. I mentioned it, yes, this bill is another thread foreview bill. The main point of the bill is that this book leaves no doubt that the successful loan - which has been high for a decade and is greatly negative, and brimming over it, and many have held it up and tied it to their right to the level of indecision - is permitted, so there is one step to the right there. But if I'm gonna support the bill when it comes down to it, I'm expecting nothing but what. The Economic and Business Committee will receive a special meeting and I shall not rule out that there is some great argument that I don't think is directly contained in the bill's report as it is right now. Of course, there may be some wonderful viewpoints that I don't see today that support some sort of necessity for this prescientism, perhaps. But the bill, the spirit of the bill, is so that foreign loans, in general, are permitted. Let's see what we can do. The Economic and Business Committee did not look at these factors in particular.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u62	Mr. President. Hv. A senator made me feel both happy and sad. She made me happy in that way so that she said quite clearly that she would not accept the bill, or that's how I understood her words, unless there was some major change, or the main argument that explained that the fate she so calls needed. I noticed that she was looking forward to it. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Siglejonsson, chairman of the Economic and Business Committee. I don't know if salvation comes from there. It just turns out. It'll be great to see if it's OK. A senator, after short in these sales but finesse, will be so quickly composed of the cow that she herself described in her speech that she wanders out of her course, I will watch it with interest. What made me sad was that I completely disagree with her about the nature of this bill. Hv. A senator, perhaps to make a certain amount of space, said that the bill allowed success loans. It may be half true, not much more. I believe the bill is a license but a ban. For example, it forbids me from taking a gangsta loan. That may not prohibit the highest order. Prime Minister or Person, such as the highest. A secretary of finance said, a sufficient amount of possessions, could possibly get them into foreign coins if there is a high degree of fluctuations and thus be able to carry the blow. It's incontrovertible, I think, as it were, not a major scratch, but yet, there's a flaw in the bill. I consider the bill to be primarily to rule out, tops. The minister of finance was honest enough to say so, and prevent common citizens from taking such loans. It would be only those who are very rich or businesses who earn money in foreign currency. I consider the bill, though it may be legal, to be forbidden, perhaps not unpredictable, but to a considerable extent. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u63	A respectable president. Again, we're what? paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson agrees on the point he mentioned at the end. It is quite true that the laws of ▪de joureHow, as men say, this is permitted, but perhaps 'de facto', in terms of individuals, in smaller companies, and possible communities, would prevent this from going-secured loans. As I mentioned in my speech, I consider these ecstatic conditions that the bill holds to be very unfortunate. I can add that a person who today earns money in foreign coins and may borrow five years of age, a success loan, he may have lost that income in a few months. It might as well be the other way around. You can imagine making money after a year or two in foreign coins. Of course, this is very unfortunate. I think that this need to be examined and that this is the case with fate. When you're going to try to plan this with the rules from A to O, you're going to anticipate every situation you're going to have, it just ends up getting in trouble with it, that's not good. Freedom is always the password. It is the easiest thing to lean on.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u64	A respectable president. Freedom is the password. A senator, and that can be true. The question is freedom, and for what? I wanted to use this opportunity because here is a good catch, since we have an experienced lawyer in the council group for a while, and ask why. A senator of the concerns that occurred earlier in the discussion that if they agree that the prohibition of gang peace was undisputed, they would not hold to the laws that apply in Iceland, whether there is a threat to some kind of reform, because of the Supreme Court's judgment that this was a business ban, that they could attend a state's requirement for it. Second, when I wanted to ask the senator about it, when she says that the financial institutions next measure this risk and draw these lines and they have to shoulder the responsibility of it: doesn't our experience over the past few years, including the collapse of the bank, that there are not, when it comes to this, the financial companies that take the responsibility, if it is the community that needs to shoulder that responsibility? And has it not been found that the organization here - and, for example, in Hungary - of providing people with unscrupulous loans like this on a large scale - was all too risky, not just for financial companies, but for these communities as a whole? Did this not eventually prove to be the responsibility of society itself, so it is next time for society to make the rules? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u65	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry or the answer. As to his second question, in terms of social responsibilities on loans: Of course, if a person decides that the government, the taxpayers, is going to save banks when it goes wrong, it is important to know how banks behave, and especially who he lends and how he or she does. It's perfectly obvious. But I don't think it's the job of the government, taxpayers, to save financial institutions when things go wrong. They need to be responsible for their functions, their own decisions, especially on loans. They were not allowed to repair the financial system in Iceland. They were not allowed to do so in peace, but they were running and rescued, and taxpayers sat down with considerable expense - and not just taxpayers; they must not forget the foreign requirements that men always want to paint in black. That's it. We need to get out of that thought. In terms of damage requirements, this is an interesting question. Of course, they've been thinking about this since the EFTA theory came along. Of course, when law has been broken and damaged, it is responsible for damage. I'm not saying, however, that when the EEA deal was accepted at the time when people were accepting the possible damage responsibility of the State to individuals in this country, this question needs to be examined in the light of EEA principles.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u66	A respectable president. Hv. At that time, a senator speaks of men as taking responsibility for the business of banks. Attention is essential. According to a senator's opinion, the government she supports has declared a state of responsibility for all the intangibles in all the business banks that work in Iceland. Hence, they are fully responsible for the treasure of the Kingdom, on the basis of that declaration. Does not the umbilical cord have to be removed first before these financial institutions are committed to taking whatever risk they want, when the government remains, in effect, on the fact that it holds all the risks of the State's responsibility? I wanted to ask who, too. A senator on the legal process. We know from early times that it was somewhat customary for the Council to give its Office considerable rules of rule. In fact, in recent years, I had not only allowed myself to say completely, legalistically on the subject of various and unique things, and I've applied such documents, including the law on currency, in which great decisions in favor of penalties and violations were based on rules that the bank gave me only general legal authority from the council. I'm asking why. A senator does not consider it normal, and more in accordance with the current legal principle, that the Council itself makes as much as possible what is permitted and what is forbidden in the law than the Council Bank's Regulation is limited to the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u67	A respectable president. Yes, I can answer that in a few words. I believe the General has the legal authority, and it will not work to hand it over to a considerable extent, no matter how important it is or think it may be, I do not speak of such an important matter as currency; I have been to believe that it has been done shortly after a collapse to the Bank of Iceland. It was now corrected, if I remember correctly, and it's been done gradually. This response, such as the previous part, applies to questions each. A senator, i.e. ... ofthe Kingdomresponsibilities of the banks today or of depositing banks. I'm asking why. Senator: Has he, who has the legal authority, approved the state responsibility of the bank's deposit?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u68	A respectable president. The issues discussed here, the bill to correct a change in the terms on growth and insurance and other matters, are as if it were neither big nor important, but it takes on quite interesting factors. Many remarkable talks have been delivered here, some of them completely evil and even unexpected. Many strange statements have been made here. One is that the most expensive loan is 40 years' worth of loan. I don't know what the criteria are, but 40-year-old loans and 25-year-old loans, price insurance with the same interest rates, are just as expensive. If I take an example of 4% of your insurance loans to 25 or 40 years of age, it's just that I have 25% more payment burden, but they're just as expensive. There's some kind of misunderstanding going on here. The other thing that I can think of here, maybe should have been said first, is that a negligible part of the human race is capable of borrowing dollars of inflation. I have often felt sorry for the rest of mankind to be unable to get into this when it comes to banning all kinds of loans. True, the rest of the human family does not have income in Icelandic dollars, so there may well be a legitimate ban in many parts of the world. Anyway, I'll agree with what. paritaprevir Andersen's victory, I think it's a bit of a premeditation to plan here much higher than any other salary in foreign and domestic. True, there may be more fluctuations in the cost of currency than in the development of the consumer calculus used here in the interest criteria to disseminate inflation. I'm writing on a loan that's taken in the worst time, in April 2007, and if there's none of it paid and if I compare it with a price insurance loan, the head of a dollar loan that's taken at that worst time, the strongest crown, and the pricey loan is probably very similar. It's all skin. Of course, it is difficult to predict the future and all loans will make changes in the future, but we cannot tell how successful currency will develop. Besides, I can't tell you how the Cronze's gang is developing, but it's been reported at a council many times that there's only a quarter of a dollar that's been paid for it. It's hard to store, and it's hard as a loan. It's getting a little tight here that there's only a small group that's supposed to be able to borrow foreign coins, and then you get to some chemical discrimination. It was a grammatical discrimination of the south of Cheflavík a few years ago, where only aviators were allowed to carry into the country beer, the others were not allowed to. It was a perfectly moral discrimination, but it was very vast. One is that people have thought of forbidding rural society to borrow foreign loans. Fearful paces may be loaned to a certain community that may have taken too much loans, which was a major problem. Before someone is banned from foreign loans, I would like to have a calculation of the fruitage of loans from rural society who borrowed foreign loans compared with the growth of other options that may have been available at a time that would be expected to be this beloved Icelandic retail loan. One objective of discrimination was to be that only professional investors should be allowed to borrow foreign funds. Then there was a significant reason to secure the banks, e.g. twice as much personal money. Where did this figure come from about twice the budget requirement? I say very simply: I ask men to be careful in the rules and regulations. I support this bill to the main point, though I am alert to a measure of prescientism. In these difficult times, it would be best to examine back loans, to examine the fruitage of loans. People claim that borrowing at the worst of the time, 2004How2008, was some terror, but no one can answer that question today because there is much of the loan's life span left. These loans may be taken to 20◯25 years of age, the amount of 10 to 12 years left from the borrowed time, and we will determine how these loans have developed. However, there was a shock that resulted in a collapse of the crown and a temporary increase in the amount of payment. This does not mean that it is a failure forever. The U.S. government that the U.S. dollar is the world's best currency - that is, let us also consider the rest of the human race that is not enjoying this wonderful advantage. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I hear I've had some fun. paritaprevir But I wasn't gonna do it. I don't owe Skarphéðinsson any fun. Fortunately, the bill is expected to go to the Economic and Business Committee, not to the professional board, as humans have been fondling around. I have every right to hold my hand in a box when this case is settled there. I simply say that foreign loans in whatever form they are supposed to be self - assuming and borrower to be responsible for their actions as well as the loan - loan agency. Usually, the amount of loan taken is the problem, not the quality. I'm really worried about the running accounts, everybody's saying that everything's the most expensive, but why in the world aren't running loans banned to the public that don't have any ability to pay 12% interest? Or God knows what's collected. Finally, I'm going to go through, not an A-part trade partner, but a B-part ECU of Reykjavík, which takes place, according to the 2013 annual report, an intermediate loan in foreign currency, but, of course, I have income in domestic currency. This company has been covered a lot, and I now believe that its problems are not the loans but, above all, the fees. These loans are available in Swiss franc francs, euro, U.S.prits, Japanese, currants, and Swedish crowns ranging from 0.37% to 1.83%; certainly gang security, but the loans are long-term, so that traumas caused by PGE at the difficult time of fall may not be so intense. The benefits of such a loan may pay off on paper until 2032. I expect to discuss this on the Economic and Business Committee. A respectable president. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u69	Mr. President. Every time. paritaprevir In this hall, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason says that I am in class and study every word humbly by the lips of the Great Master. I'm gonna let me ask you a few questions. For this reason, a senator explains to me some of the things that I love after his speech. I like it. A senator may fly full free by such currents that come from the budget, yet I must tell him to praise that he often takes his stand or lands where justice also belongs to those with less affection than many. My first question to him may not be about the subject of this bill, but the beginning of his speech. Hv. A senator felt that I was saying that very clearly without necessarily crushing it into the core that he was opposed to canceling his 40 - year loans. I'm glad to hear it. I'm totally convinced that taking them off is unworked. Of course, in the best world of all, it would be desirable to have a different setting, but the situation is that we live in the forest of wild laws, and if I were now to begin my career in life as a family man, I would rather rent with myself, as I would sometimes call it, when men take 40 years of credit, rather than submit to the laws of the market today. My question to him is: Do I agree that it is not right to cancel my 40 - year loan? The other question may not be a question, but it made me happy. A senator explained this bill exactly as I do. It makes two groups. One is very small, very well - mannered, and can take advantage of foreign loans, but we are not thieves. It's incontrovertible. There's one of the handlers on this bill. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u70	A respectable president. There's a bit of a flaw in this room for men to go out and south. This bill is about gang trust loans, not insurance. Yet, somehow, men have been able to do 40 years of loans in this discussion, even though it is not contained in its contents. I thought I had been clear enough to say that there are no grammatical reasons that recommend banning a 40 - year loan, a 50 - year loan, rather than a 25 - year loan. A 40 - year - old loan is only with a much more comfortable payment burden and is nearing the κislammac knocking, i.e. Of course, a small portion of the head chair is being paid off, so thevex payment is in accordance with the properties of busy loans. I don't think it's absurd to go to any campaign to kill 40 years. It's just a matter of whether or not he'll take that kind of loan. I'm not going to go against it. The other thing with the classification of the human race in greater power and prosperity, I've never put it in, and the only thing I'm saying is whether the person has the ability to make payment, yes, or no. I worked as bank manager for a number of years and had to take decisive action in measuring the level of payment in a simple way, and I managed to do just fine, and, as I am told, the bank gained much from auctions, so this is my opinion in short terms. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u71	Mr. President. Hv. A senator now informs me that 40 years of loans are sort of a piece of sharia, then I finally understand the opposition of the forward party to the great loans. Thank you. A senator for explaining that to me. But I wasn't the one who brought them into the discussion. I would take it from my lips. The man in general opened his speech, so I found it intriguing. But I'm glad to hear it. A senator bluntly says that there is no grammatical evidence to forbid loans. Then I expect. A senator I know and have tried to be very consistent with himself that he will, when that bill arrives here for the council, will likely inform it in the discussion, as at this moment, that there are no perfunctory reasons to accept it and to vote against it. I think so. Then people are parties to themselves. Then I can call a hat to him. Senator. Other than that, I felt that a certain harmony was with at least a lesser view of the bill and whatever. A senator has voiced his comments and speech. What he said in his talk was noteworthy. He said that the bill would lead to two types of assessment of payment capacity, one for what he called a small group, and then a lower estimate for men like me and many here and most people in this room. Perhaps there is reason to pause in this way to separate the nation into a small group and a much larger group. Hv. A senator has convinced me that he is an agnostic of this matter and has said that it is too much of a care for me. There are two members of the Independence Party who have said so. [[The president calls.]] We'll see how they vote. I'm not challenging them to some extent, but at least I know that. in cooperation with both members of Congress, Mr President, that they are consistent with themselves. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u72	A respectable president. I don't know if this was a question that calls for an answer, but what about that? [[Up front.]] I'm the final material of the bill in principle. There are certain national legal requirements that may need to be addressed under certain circumstances, and it is also a form of house - to - house loan that is another form of foreign loans. All right. All I'm saying is that it's fine to have the warrants and the form doesn't lead. True, there was a certain process in which one's will was paid, but then there was a measure of dissatisfaction when the dollar fell, which made one a success. I'm simply saying that I trust we'll both follow this bill and get the worst bait, at least That, in the committee's office, be moderate in eating, regardless of the material of men. The main focus is to see if a person can pay. It is natural to look to the person to be able to pay, and he or she may become fluctuating on foreign loans, which may become a change in the index of consumer prices. So I expect that, huh? Senator, for you to vote like me.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u73	A respectable president. Hv. A senator deals with a loan of success from abroad, but is it not the correct understanding that they are Icelandic loans that have insurance that are highly swinging and risky, which makes it more likely that a loan will be paid by the borrower? I can agree that, of course, the currency here is a problem and is always looking for Krissavík's ways to keep running it. But I understood why. A senator rightly believes that in recent years the cost of loans from borrowers is as great or greater than the cost of the huge fall on foreign loans? Is it even more costly to be in the financial security of the Icelandic system than have been in foreign loans at a time when the crown's gang has failed as much as it really does? A respectable president. Hv. A senator can't avoid discussing the insurance policy because he himself spoke about it. We can't just ask who. There is also the need to ask why, for a senator about the bill that is promised that rules out 40 years'loans. A senator on the written answer to a request for expediency insurance, which states that the government will decommission insurance in 2016, whether the senator is not aware of this. [[Up in the hall: right.]] We must also ask if it is an agreement between the members of the administrations to forbid the loans of this spring council at 40 years, but it is already beginning in 2016 full of deposit insurance in the Icelandic financial system, thus forbidding what seems to me to be in opposition to the main issues. A senator and, in fact, also a young man. þm. Sigríður Andersen has described these discussions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u74	A respectable president. The loans listed here are expected domestic loans, certainly, but they are borrowed by reference to foreign currency. That is why they are considered foreign loans, and they are expected to be derived from foreign loans, but it may be appropriate to talk about foreign loans. We live in a region called the European Economic Area, and loans across borders are permitted. It may well be possible to account for loans elsewhere from Icelandic law. But I'm sorry to answer for the highest. Prime Minister. That's not my job. I've heard of dissociative insurance. I'm simply saying that growth is based on several factors, realism, inflation stress, financial stress, etc. One of these factors is measured in a chemical way, such as the cost of insurance and that it should be banned, but guesswork is to be allowed - what kind of confusion is this? I don't really understand what's going on around here. Is it not right to look back on evolution? Hv. A senator asked if I thought that loans taken at the worst of times, one inflatable, the other probable, were in a similar position. Just the magazine I was making earlier shows me that it is, anyway, in terms of the dollar and even the euro, and it doesn't have a loan in the Swiss franc. So these changes are in various ways. Granted, borrowers must be ready for a swing, but I may continue in a later answer. I've finished my case for a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u75	A respectable president. It's quite interesting if that's the case. A senator said that a dollar loan in the last seven years has proved to be less expensive through the biggest success we've seen in a long time than the financial loan of Icelandic loans, i.e. they have been more expensive than even this unfortunate loan. I don't insist on what to do. A senator giving an answer to a prime minister, far from it, but I ask him why. A member of the Independence Party and the House of Independence because of the lack of incident. A senator is still a member of the Independence Party. I simply ask: Is it so that the independent party agreed to ban 40 years of prices on loans? And has the Independence Party agreed to complete bail out in 2016? Is this the case with prime minister to base his statements on it? Hv. A senator does not have to answer for prime minister. All he has to say is whether the Independence Party has committed itself to these two projects. Then I wanted to ask. A senator concludes that it is not quite unusual to call for freedom in business with foreign loans and a dwindling loan in a community of currency capitals. Doesn't it have to be generally expected that there is a requirement for a single currency and a surmounted loan exchange in one country to provide free capital transport? I'm not about to do things the wrong way on the bill. A senator, granting freedom in loan trades with no means of freedom in the treatment of a country that has a currency law?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u76	A respectable president. I'm gonna try to answer this in the reverse order, first of all, the wrong thing here, the right thing to do, the right thing to a successful loan, foreign loans, and first to settle from currency capitals. I don't see there's any paradox here. I think it's good to work on legislation and the necessary factors so that society will be expected here to be a free flow of capital as planned. As to the independence party party's approval, I choose not to give a reply to the Independence Party. Since I've always pointed to the chairman of a council or the chairman of the party, I am content to reveal my position, and it is that the length of loan time is not to be important. As for the last point, it is natural for humans to have a wide set of commands and prohibitions that they look only to the past and know what they are saying and what has happened in recent years. What happened here in 2007 was naturally very unusual. There may be an analysis of the cause, but the main cause was the quality of loans and some criminal activity in banks, the law on finance. That led to what happened here. But I'm looking for a better time, at least with the current government, so in most respects. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u77	A respectable president. I had not necessarily thought to speak in this case in 1st. but listen to people's language and see what was going on here. But you can't put words in your life when it comes to such a case as "nice insurance. " We're talking a lot about insurance. Now we're talking about old times, what's to call him, a friend called luck insurance. But we always come to the same thing, i.e. that we have a little strange currency and we need all kinds of tools and tools to keep it and new ones. There's something I miss the government talking about, i.e. The big picture on the gangs. We're talking like that, yes, the advance party seems eager to continue decommissioning insurance but doesn't seem to get much of it. Clearly, the secretary of finance has pushed it aside and set aside the order of setting laws on foreign loans and gang insurance. All right, but I miss talking about the big movie, which is any money policy and how the currency we're going to run here after the end of the period called the Marine Period, the currency phase of this century. I think it's a little bit foreign for the government that we're always gawking the other stuff, some patches here and there and something like that, but men don't discuss the big picture. Another symptom that is a lesion in our community, which I think is the discussion and the bill being published, is the situation in which groups of society are in. We know this, and it's a very Icelandic phenomenon, that through getting in a position for someone, people have made a lot of money. Humans have come in a position that has guaranteed the blessings of the sea, which has made them able to make a lot of money. Men have been in a position in this country, causing them to be in a position other than the general Icelander to profit and to make their years more comfortable. The same is true of the currency. Not everyone can use foreign currency, but some may. We never discuss it in this room that not everyone is bound to have to use an Icelandic inflated crown. Most of them own the assets, the highest earners, the big business people, they're not bound to use the prices of Icelandic dollars, like the public and the medium-sized companies. I thought why. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson paints it up fine in the past that the bill is actually increasing there, and the bill is actually a manifestation of that position, i.e. The difficult, dwindling dollars are largely in the hands of the public in the country and SMEs. They are bound by it as they have more possessions or have a higher income, and the bill is nothing more than a manifestation of it. So I have to say, when are we going to start discussing the big case that is the currency? Do we want this so far into the future? Do we want to have it in such a way that we have no currency? And would we like to be in a position to be present by the bill? Is that how we want it? The answer to that question is no. I don't want to. I want men to sit at the same table. I want a currency that's strong enough to make sure it doesn't have to be secure by the various hierarchical routes. And I want a currency that all the public can use to get a roof over their heads without costing much more money than people in our neighboring countries. We're always working with one of these manifestations of the root of the problem, but we never talk about the problem ourselves. We talk only about the consequences and somehow try to work with them. A respectable president. That's why I call for it on the part of the government, of the highest order. Secretary of finance, that he starts talking to us about the big picture and the main issues and the ills and the major problems. A respectable president. Besides, I have to mention that you can't go through this discussion and do what you want to do. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigurjónánsson did earlier by saying: "We can't be mixing here a business insurance bill and then another bill of insurance. I completely disagree with him because the advance team said very clearly in leading the last election that there is no problem here to eliminate insurance. It was held in this hall, in this chair, e.g. of the current maximumv. Minister of society and housing, that the only thing necessary was the will. So I ask him, where is he now? Because it can't be said: Well, we can't be talking about it here because we're discussing gang insurance. - Yes, we can. And we should because men made promises like this a year ago or about 13 months ago, they suggested some kind of operation plan on what to do. Then there's no one else in here but gang insurance and people assume that it's because ESAs are hitting them. Hear the endemity. I must say, a respectable president, that I have been very disappointed in the forward party in this matter, but it is not surprising to me. Because when you look at the history of the Future Party in all of these matters together, people have enormous words, hold on to large things, but are unable to produce anything. Let me give you an example. The media is often hard on the part of foreign claimers, known as vultures, these mean, ugly vultures from abroad, but when it comes to dealing with them, it doesn't come back. That's when you only return one big zero. Consider an example. How did the advance party vote in this hall when it was decided on the part of the previous government to take the swelling of the old bank under the head of currency? They were sitting by. They gave up the wealth. When the parish had the opportunity to address the demand heads of the swellingrs of the fallen bank, as they themselves have called vultures, they did nothing, they returned zero. So, what's going on with the big insurance business? 13 months ago a report on the matter was due to be settled, and only the will was to be solved. That's it. She produced some kind of work plan on how to take out insurance, but it has not subsided one of its components since then. It is only hoped that when people open the same laws under the preordained that they are ousted at ESA: Wait, but what happened to disintegration insurance? That is the most natural question that can arise here because such promises were made. However, it was simply so that 13 months ago a plan was established that at the beginning of 2015, certain changes should be under way that would lead to an operation on bail. The big statements are still returning big zeros. Núlli. Instead, they're giving you a community policy bill. I have to say exactly as it is, most respectable president, that I don't understand either up or down in this, and I think the most honest would be of the why. The senators of the parish to come into this chair and tell the people that they can't handle this, that they can't do this, that the project is bigger than they can get alone in that afternoon after election. That would be most honorable because the expectations given by those words and those declarations were so that thousands outside this house are waiting for this in the belief that it can be done only with the will of a weapon. That is why this needs to be answered. I've got to say right now that's what makes you think about it when it's the highest. The social and housing minister, who may have had what the largest statements on the case, said on the last of the autumn days that it is quite possible to trust this government to finish this case, this is all happening, and men have made a plan after some committee was set up. Well, maybe someone should tell her that this plan assumes that humans are making changes, e.g. banning certain loan classes at the beginning of 2015. And where are we now at the beginning of 2015? And the fact that we've come in here with this sort of law on gang peace loans that really open up the legislation that needs to be changed to achieve what has been discussed here, that tells me that the other one isn't on the way, doesn't start giving it back. I think people have to start thinking about what they want to do and what they promise, because politicians often promise people that they can do things for them because it's a serious thing to promise such a big thing and not give it back. A respectable president. V.E.G. A financial and economic minister supervises the work of making these changes to the legislation. He and the government decide to bring this case first, but there's no end to the other, the insurance business. So I must ask, and hope to the highest. Ministers in their speech, let us see how to work on the projecting of a bill as the highest. The social and housing minister told the one standing here on autumn days in the answer from this chair that was coming, how's that job? I hope to the highest. A minister would be here somewhere, and listen to that question and answer it before this case ends today, because after all the statements and housing are not deemed by me, after all the big words that have fallen from this chair on the matter, times, plans made by men to live by, that, after all the things that have been going on here, the minister of social and housing is made meaningless by this means that there is a very large zero in the matter. I remind you that in my last term, a large percentage of those who now defend the Ministerial Class on my right hand and my left hand were on the bill where they suggested a roof on insurance. Where is it now when people are in a position to return something? There's nowhere to go. There's no sign of that bill. We haven't seen it, and we don't even see the Ministers in here, let alone. Residents of the Team, who have spoken the language of this hall, participate in the discussions to tell us when the insurance business will be in here. A respectable president. I have to say, just as it's said, it's time for the advance team to go and what. His members are made clear in this matter, and especially to the top ministers who have spoken. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u78	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's excellent review of the matter, as well as his political position. It is reported that rarely or never has a government taken over a government that has had as extensive plans for transpondering and great justice action, saving the homes of the country, and removing the insurance so that only two are counted by the plans that existed. Now it's time for us to finish our second winter of this miracle government without much of what is under it being planned. I want to ask you why. A senator, who is the most experienced and experienced woman here at the General Assembly, sat here as financial and economic minister himself, how she sees this particular bill in the political context of the promises made, as well as in the relationship between the European Union and the EEA both clear and secret. It's getting a little nervous when people here are following advice and advice from those they hate most about, but they don't fulfill their own promises. I want to ask you why. A senator's assessment of these factors.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u79	A respectable president. In my mind it appeared very clearly, with the contributions of this case at this point, where the emphasis lies, i.e. where you put your priorities. She is in a hurry to deal with an impending trial on ESA and then possibly or perhaps even to fulfill the campaign plan. Men have, as I discussed in my speech, 13 months from the publication of the report on how people are going to take over insurance and have not returned one word of it to the council Hall, not one word. So it is perfectly obvious to me where the confidence of this government lies, he is not with those who chose them out on this great promise. I have to say, just as it is, after having observed these matters for a long time, I was so excited to see how people were going to fulfill that great promise, it was all supposed to be so simple and comfortable and not a thing to do. Since then, all you've seen is the fact that an apartment loan fund, now in the hands of the highest. The social and housing minister who has spoken of these matters is at risk of offering unscrupulous loans but still offering expensive loans. It doesn't seem like they're doing it there. So I have to say, in the large context of the section, the words of the politicians who are part of the fine political parties are quite small because they can't return anything unless they may never have intended it, but they've just done anything to get votes. [[The president calls.]] That's what I'm looking at right now. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u80	Thank you. The senator's answer. I also wondered about something else that was merely evident at the beginning of the discussion and when it was the highest. Minister spoke for the case. This may be more the point that the bill contains such things. In the 3rd. a law on Iceland's Secret Bank considers the main objective of the bank, which is to promote continued prices and to declare the ignominious aims of inflation and to advance the government's policies on the economy. It is now that this bill is not merely intended to address certain comments but is actually included in the target law on Iceland's Secret Bank. Suddenly, when the bank's payer is granted, the offer is made by financiers to set loans for foreign loans. In fact, the reasons for going this way are handled well. But it must seem highly thought - provoking to hide such a great deal of rule in part with financial institutions that hear the financial status of the bigger picture. I want to pray. A senator arguing with me about the dangers there might be, in terms of the overlap between the projects and the topic of the Federal Bank, in the case of decision-making of the kind of issue in the bill, i.e. I'm just going to go straight into one of the perfunctory regulations of Iceland's Pentateuch. It is quite the same when a person begins a change in the law of the above, that they may not directly be using cosmetics into the goal code itself. The harsh former financial minister would certainly be interested in that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u81	A respectable president. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator is there to draw up a point that I did not actually introduce in my speech but is something that the committee needs to consider, and men have only come on here today. It is of utmost importance in a community like ours that we have a bank that has a clear role and has complete confidence in his decisions and actions. Therefore, there is a need to be very careful when it comes to making a decision to do that in all aspects of the environment. We have a tremendously sensitive currency. We have an enormously delicate economy. Rather, it is vital that we reach that goal. That's why I was, too, like a cot. Senator, a little thought about this. I think it's important that this time, when it's dealing with this matter, the committee not only looks at what is being done but also how we should interact with the Secret Bank issues. That's what I'm saying, too, because he's being talked about making further changes. I'm worried about this big context. A respectable president. Just right here in the end, because I have here 30 seconds, I'd like to say, as I said at the beginning of my speech, that I find this case to be very familiar with the situation of which the Icelanders live. Simply put, we are becoming a very caste society in this regard. We have people who are in a position to gain enormous gain from a situation they have been created. Here we see its manifestation in that we now have a loan, which is actually just for this same group, i.e. the highest-priority group that earns the income and makes the most of it. The country's public is going to continue with the inflatable crown that the advance company is going to do nothing about. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u82	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before the talk and wanted to keep asking about what turns to the Bethel bank. Does the senator not think it is too difficult to hide the financial standards of some kind of command against the Federal Bank, even if the Councilman has a representative in that regard, whether at least it needs to be considered carefully before taking any such step, to hide an institution outside the bank any power towards the bank? Does it not guarantee complete independence? Perhaps I wanted to ask you why. A member of the Parliament of what the candidates have found very difficult to discuss today, and not wanting at all, and even some members of the Independence Party, which are about the insurance policy. This bill presents itself to the growth and insurance laws. It was announced that there would be a ban on the 40 - year loans, and on the part of the prime minister, even though I understood the financial minister's declarations of failure to exist, on the part of the Independence Party, to eliminate insurance. I'm asking why. Senator: Isn't it true, now that the season is half over, that the advance party hasn't got the approval of the team for decommissionment insurance and is just in some play with its voters? Must not it be read as a message from the minister of finance to his team of cooperation that he would present, at the end of the spring council, as a bill for changing the terms of growth and insurance, without having a ban on his 40 - year loans and part of his agreements? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u83	A respectable president. In 1st. The Secret Bank law specifically states that one of the main objectives is that the city is an independent institution owned by the State. If we put a law where we hide a third party outside the relationship to have some kind of signal over the Huns Bank, we're out on a very high ice. Then we're beginning to dig away, as I said before. paritaprevir The Svandís's Svavarsdóttir, the cornerstone of our economic policy, which is independent and strong money bank and money bank, which has uncircumcised trust and our commission to handle the issues he has been assigned to. That's why we need to be very careful about these changes. I hope the Committee takes a very careful look at this and discuss seriously how we in this hall should associate with the Federal Bank and change in its roles. Only with regard to the insurance and the commitments of the Agency, and whether it is that the team is holding back men in order to keep that promise, it's a little in my mind whether I think it's really the case, whether they're actually pulling the legs of the group or whether the candidates have already realized that it's not a job, that they've not told us they're not able to handle it. I felt that the first clue to that is found in the results of this insurance group when he gave only some proposal to forbid individual loans. It's not out-of-work insurance. They just can't handle the project, and they can't give it back.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u84	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answers. I found it very interesting that the talk presented. paritaprevir Well, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason's son, who is very perceptive about the financial market. He explains that despite the tremendous failure of the Icelandic bank and despite the massive failure of the loans that were borrowed from foreign currency because of the failure of our currency, these little and small ones who have been so poor, despite the tremendous beating of those who failed to correct their foreign loans, had legal foreign loans that are now, only seven years later, they are better off loans and on interest rates to those who come with the sum of money than those who paid money; that the interest cost in seven years of Icelandic loans is greater than combined with interest rates and interest rates over a period of a period of unfavourable money in the years. I must wonder, because you are naturally of that generation, like a dog. A senator, who has many mortgagers and a substantial amount of money on loans, whether this does not tell a very large story about the cost of holding out an independent coin, and if it is not safe to say that he has something different if even we gangbeds have been more favorable to borrowing in dollars than in credit.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u85	A respectable president. I heard the same thing. A senator, who also found it interesting. I was so lucky to see a picture of this too, i.e. A picture like a dog. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason just referred to, and she shows this. Of course, it is quite remarkable that in a short period of time, it is less acceptable to have a successful loan, i.e. In coins other than dollars. Over that brain, over a long period of time, over a 10-year period, it seems to have been more beneficial to be borrowing walking safely. This, of course, is something interesting for us to examine. I have to say exactly as it is, it's because of this thing that I've called for us to discuss the big picture. I miss the fact that we're not discussing this, that we're not discussing the standard of living we're going to offer to the Icelanders in the future. Will we continue to offer the loans they have been offered so far? Or are we going to try to come up with something new? We're offering a financial loan, we're offering a successful loan that's supposed to be for a small group. We are being offered an unscrupulous Icelandic loan, but none of this is particularly good for us if we look at a comparison with our neighboring state. I'm impressed that young Icelanders are having the same offer we've been invited to so far. That's why it's so important to talk about this big movie, and I've called it to the top. Secretary of finance that he will, his talk of the future with regard to this situation. It does not always mean making new patches.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u86	Mr. President. This has been an interesting discussion. Although a council hall is not completely organized when it comes to the point of the discussion, it is still clear from today's participation that this is a matter that affects many people. People have made remarkable statements here, especially since then. Members of the Independence Party with regard to the ideas that their forward team members have on the issues we address here, i.e. The money business. I have not given a talk on this subject today, but I must say that I have learned so much. Maybe I'd like to start by saying thank you. Financial and economic secretary for an excellent speech when he recommended for his bill, which is in effect the response to an impending attack from ESA against a ban confirmed by the Supreme Court on gang-trusted loans and loans of foreign coins in this country. I have to say, the highest. The minister of finance was rather successful in explaining this complex matter to us, realizing that it has been well handled. I would also like to say that many of the things that have been criticized by some of my peers in the opposition today made me feel comfortable with him. Men have, for example. made the shoes too much power in the bill that is being discussed here. It is a law allowing Ministers to set rules that, in effect, give the National Bank comments and advice from financial arenas to put special precautions on the amount and amount of money that financial institutions have in foreign funds, i.e. those institutions that are involved in loans based on some kind of gang insurance loans. It has been criticized by those here who have spoken up, including From the freedom-friendly arm of the Independence Party, that it's too fateful, yet they have nevertheless said that this is a step toward freedom, as it were. paritaprevir Andersen's victory said today, there's no law against taking a gangsta loan or loan in foreign currency. I interpret the bill here in a very different way. I'm saying there's been a permit, but there's also a ban. It was interesting to hear that her stylist, boy. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, totally agreeed with that view. The talk that was given here may have been given at the top of the talk. Secretary of finance, one of the greatst delivered today. I felt like a dog. A senator well described the matter here, but he also took up other issues that truly relate to the money policy and how we want to conduct our future affairs, of course, that is, of course, to cut off the insurance policy. Hv. A senator mentioned earlier, my sister Katrín Júlíusdóttir, thought aloud in a speech chair what would happen because the bill was not yet seen as a group and promised by the president of the Convention to be one of the first works she wished to do, i.e. bill of decommissioned insurance. Hv. A senator referred to its exchange of words and the highest. A housing minister, Harðardóttir Hardydirdó, would have appeared, in fact, convened in a report that has been greatly discussed with the decommissionment of insurance, that when it delights in the year 2016, there would be steps that would eventually lead to disassociation of insurance. Well, Mr. President, I'm going to live that day. And I have to say, though my fine companion has disappeared from the hall, that I didn't think she was comfortable in a political generation not to see the faces of these discussions, as a matter of fact, well. paritaprevir Hjövar's Hjörvar pointed out before, what is it that causes that bill to be passed. This, of course, is the opposition of the Independence Party. In a orderly speech. paritaprevir But Vilhjálmur Bjarnason moved today, the fine senator of the Independence Party, ran into some storm, saying that I do not say on the run of noise, when he mentioned this. There's no question about it. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason spoke of a strong opposition to the fact that the trail that would lead to disintegration of insurance would be covered. That's why. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir wondered about earlier. Hv. In this discussion, the members of the Parliament's debates have not been very frequent. I get it. While there may have been times in the thin - packed ranks of members of the hall, sparks can be seen one by one. There have been few of them. There have been some who have sat here and one among them, but only one of them has spoken. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson. I would like to thank him for a clear and grammatical speech, but he howled that the members of the government resistance had asked the question of when insurance bills would be provided. Hv. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson said it was not related, but it's not related. The fact is, the forwarding party did not depend on its campaign to legalize reimburse success loans. The clergy fought their battles against two types of posts, and one of them was that insurance, the head of the party, and the highest. The prime minister considered some of the worst things of the devil to be the rest of eternity. It becomes apparent with this campaign code, such as others, that it will not be tolerated. What makes it absolutely legitimate for us basemen to ask for when we discuss a successful loan and bill that is to authorize it is exactly how that bill is made. As I mentioned in my speech at the outset, the bill is a response to ESA challenge. In other words, the European Union's directives are being submitted. I say like what? paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon today, let's see what we can do on the Council Committee. Not everything unseen should be bought. However, what's happening here, and of course it's quiet, and it's shocking, and it puts the advance party in a bit of sarcasm light, is that the party here is still kneeling to the EU power, without testing whether it may be the point of the Lawgiver's mind during the last term to forbid these loans and secondly, the Supreme Court's confirmation of it is behind all the rights, and it is not right to follow these clear instructions ESAs. That's what I say because it sounds paradoxed that when one community has more and less fucked up, including the other. On the basis of the application of these specific loan groups, it should be said that it is in opposition to the EU Convention's rules of keeping it banned. So I think men like what they're doing. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, Mól Hjörvar and natural prow. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson needs to be very careful with this. This is what humans think is contrary. It is paradox that the People's Company is bringing a bill here to serve the most dishonorable master he once thought to be a virgin and a wasteland, i.e. large trading company in Brussels, before once there's a spark in a bill about decommissioning insurance. So have we, Mr. President, recent discussions, including. half what. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjölm Bjarnason's son, plans to answer a promise and fulfill his promise of bail by banning the so-called 40-year loan, the Iceland Bar. I have to say, I can't help but agree with it. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, and in effect a third member of the Independence Party, who spoke in this discussion, hm. paritaprevir Pétur H. Blöndal said that there are no perplexing reasons for doing so. Now I know that 40 years of loans are such that they can well be described as those they take to ensure that during the first 15 years of the loan, they are actually hired by themselves. But I say, Mr. President, that if I compare the position of the man who has a safe shelter under a roof that is thus purchased with a young family breading that needs to be fought without having a place in the jungle market that now lives in a rented market, it is not a question of what I would choose. Of course, I would choose my 40 years. It may well be that they are in the midst of an animal and a difficult situation, and it would be desirable for the world to be different, but this is how it is. Given that situation, I can only say what I'm saying. paritaprevir Oddgeir Ottesen, who fell in here as a deputy of his first talk, which was carried out by the present environmental and resource minister, Magnúsdóttir Magnúsótir, that by taking away the loan, it would be to deprive that group as a result of youth or other position, often in the most difficult position to get out of housing. I wasn't the one who brought this into the discussion. There were other men, including. Yeah. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason. But I'd like to use this opportunity to celebrate, for it was very clear in the discussion that here, members of the Independence Party have spoken against the removal of the 40 - year loans. They've been talking against dissociative insurance. Then, of course, we will see how the reconciliation is between the parties of the administration. Mr. President. I'd like to finally mention two things. They have been criticized, even. of what? paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon and my sister, huh? paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir and others, in order to install that system as the highest, are now what men have called the back of the mountain, the way of the hooks. Financial and economic ministers would like to use to make atonement for ESAs. But I have to say, if you're going to accept the bill, which I don't rule out, I'm going to finally agree with, I believe it's the way to the highest level. A financial and economic minister suggests that there is a better way to bring up his plans and plans in the law. The way of setting this into rules and thus allowing the Society's bank to adapt rapidly to situations that may quickly change to the market, to develop financial status proposals, I believe are successful. I think it's all too heavy to drive through the council to achieve these changes. I think it's important that I'm not cutting the bill off the table. The way to the highest. The secretary of finance is fine with me. It may also be, in effect, that according to the circumstances in which we live, it is necessary to go this way to the future. This does not change the fact that the core of my criticism of the bill is that it emphasizes the meaning and variety of people between the Icelandic people and those who are sometimes called one percent, those who have an incredibly large share in the wealth of Icelanders. None of the individuals mentioned in the discussion today put it better than that. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason, who said that this is a small group that one might use at a time when they are most favorable to the market. You see, that's the thing. Cunts like me and some whisks. Congress officials cannot take advantage of this even if they were at some point the most beneficial loans available. But it can be the highest. Prime Minister, it is possible for large - scale builders, this tiny part of the Icelandic community with an abundance of money. I'm as good a man as I am. I don't want to make them up. But if you do. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason has his word to find ways to destroy this but still achieve the objective of the bill, I may well be happy to support this matter. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u87	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. I'd like to stop at her last subject, i.e. The factors that balanced the community and in what way the bill touches the fundamental issues of society over our heads and perhaps also a fundamental factor in our political stand here used to communicate, i.e. the importance of equality in good society. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, because I think he has observed some of the discussions today and he is concerned about the particular factors that are being divided into two groups and that there is an increase, whether he thinks there is a real possibility of responding to the comments here on the ESA and at the same time avoiding inequities. Is that possible? A senator sees, and hence, as he himself has proclaimed, that he might see the possibility that he might even support the matter? So, what adjustments would it take for him to see the possibility of doing so? On the other hand, I would like to pray. A member of Parliament also felt that only the speculations about the system of regulation to Iceland's Secret Bank are due to the opinion that financial minister's route is good in the bill. I don't know about that because of a conflict between positions, objectives, and projects of the Navy bank, according to Article 1. fix him, and want to pray. A senator's argument was to back it up better than he did in his speech. Why does he consider this to be a successful way to which the minister of finance suggests in the bill? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u88	Mr. President. That's the right thing to say. Svavarsdóttir I've sat here like a church mouse under all these discussions because I look at such discussions as a lesson in economics for me. I have no secret that, for example, I always have great joy in mind when things happen. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason is involved in such a discussion, not only because he can handle chapters that are extremely fun without necessarily meaning, but also because he is a sea of knowledge, outside the remarkable paradox I raised earlier today as a senator, at the same time as he often hangs on the wings of the money and takes sides there, he is so strong that sometimes lands on the side I call on the right side, i.e. where the cause of those who bear less than any other place lies. Therefore, I took joy from those words. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur, Bjarnason's son, when he today carefully criticized this as well as I did. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir is criticizing, that this includes one tiny fraction of the Icelandic community, one of the richest offences, lifts it onto a ledge, and makes a special position for it. I cut my heart out when it is found in a legal way, and it made me happy that the same thing happened at the moment. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason. But he said: "We'll try to reach the goal of the bill without it. That, at least, is a beautiful goal. But so I give a good answer to that question, I haven't the answer, I don't have it. I can't quite tell. I naturally noticed that in the end. The secretary of finance had, in effect, said that this was primarily for company and exporters, he also said: " I want them to enjoy the doubt that has a lot of money and that they could possibly exchange it for currency and take a swing. He wants to give that one percent of the benefit of the doubt. I wonder, Mr. President, could this thought and spirit of the bill violate the sovereignty laws of the Constitution? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Then I'll ask what. A senator apologizes for my failure to answer the second question, doing so next time. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u89	A respectable president. Thank you. The answer will likely be attempted to answer my second question in the previous answer. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, who can definitely tore it out of his great experience and political perspective, what a puzzle we have in our hands, i.e. We have a particular piece of paper in our hands, which is part of the overall picture, part of a political overall picture, moving society from equation to greater equations. This is one of the many matters we've been dealing with and dealing with here at the council, from the last election, which have been reduced in the community, which was increased in recent governments under unprecedented conditions. This, on the other hand, and on the other hand, what I mentioned earlier in response too, i.e. The agreement between election saves, big election stores, and those who don't have a lot of money, not to put it down, what is of this ideal period, the largest campaign reserve of all time that was about rights in the interest of citizens in the country, bail out, etc. How far are we in it? What master are we saluting in this bill in the face of those whom you would have thought was more important to the advance team, who were adopted in the spring of 2013?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-25-70.u90	Mr. President. The god that is filled with the name mammon. The course that one hoped to look forward in this way, and many other primes through the Independence Party are socialism, something that our classes have often been able to work with, and one would have expected some such inheritance from the past to be entertained from the ground at times, that did not often happen. That's the answer. With regard to the CIA bank and the mild disagreement that may be between me and my own party, on the other hand, and on the other hand. I think that would give the community or government an increased chance of reacting rapidly. That may be necessary. But the reason why I'm not afraid to give this power to the Secret Bank is because it is true that he has a colorful past that is not stronger than I have said, that I have been glad to guess how the Navy has responded to the recent years, and I have a lot of faith, not only on the bank manager but also on the core of which ideologies, because they are achieving a certain success. I notice that the direction that seems, in fact, still at least, to be followed in terms of the reimbursement of a currency burglar, which I consider to be an important goal, is the same as the Sentencing Bank and this core developed by a former government. In other words, I believe in them. I don't feel like the ultimate part. However, the prime minister who literally has, at least the largest part of the term since election, before elections, and to the day dato described distrust, reduced it, and still had doubts about the Sentencing bank and the bank manager. I believe in them. I believe that they are capable of reacting quickly and in good sense, especially because they are not supposed to do so until they have been hired by financial standards. [[The president calls.]]
