ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u1	By letter, dated November 26th, the president has requested this, according to the 8th chapter of the 1st. 13th par. Parliaments, on the board of administrations and monitoring committees, are reporting reports on the state's Service Convention with Farice ehf. and about the business and financial status of a trust fund. Also, the president in his letter, dated November 26, requested to do so, according to the regulations of Figure 5 of 1. 13th par. Congress, to the budgetary board that it deals with the report of the Government Review of the 2014 State Accounting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u2	A respectable president. This is true of the conference board at the General Assembly. When the director of the Land Hospital, the National Hospital, arrives at the council and explains how the economic situation will affect them in the hospital, they will receive him with courtesy. He should not have to suffer, for the chairman of the budgetary committee makes public declarations of spiritual violence and such. A respectable president. The conduct of the chairman of a legal committee to the director of the Land Hospital is completely intolerable. It's not possible, Mr. Honorable President. It is fundamental that any confidants we have committed to the hospital can bring information here, exasperate them, and be discussed in a grammatical way, even though there may be differing opinions on the information. But that this debate is drawn down to this level and down to this, I want to let myself say it personally, puts a stain on the council all and the work of the council. A respectable president. I strongly object to this march, and I wonder that a senator who declared in the campaign that she would vote for a national agreement for the Land Hospital should allow herself to walk this way. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u3	President. I want to say something. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar and making serious comments on the conduct of the chairman of the budget board. In addition, at the conference, I want this event to occur at a meeting of the budget board on Friday's meeting and the dessert, including In the evening news, Stop 2 this weekend, where it's at. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir spoke of spiritual violence, was already meeting at a meeting of the council groups. There, council members, the one standing here, did. paritaprevir Hjörvar Helgi, comments on the conduct of the senator. We count it below all the caves, and we insist that a president handle the case in some way, in which there is a proper respect for the entire body, which will be taken down, when the above words are spoken. I wish for the highest. The President responds to the first.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u4	President. I'd like to agree with the rest of the House presidents of my section and to reiterate that it is necessary to react at the hands of a president. Unfortunately, many committees are not well reported, and I find it very serious when the chairman of the legal committee expresses himself in this way. I feel that not only the way she has expressed herself but also the way she relates that guests at a meeting expressed themselves but also that she says it was spiritual violence. I think it's so serious that I don't really know what to say. I want a president to take advantage of this case in that he has a word against him. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, and I hope to do it. A member of that committee apologizes for his words.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u5	A respectable president. Health issues are a delicate group of subjects, and it is absolutely fact that this group has in recent years, and especially during the last term, may be adversely cut. Hence, how happy we are that this government has managed to increase the budget for health care at the top of the world's problems! paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir as chairman of the budget board. This government halted prior health measures, increased immediately with health care by 6.8 billion in real value, or 5.4% between budgets 2013 and 2014, and the budget for the Hospital has increased by 20%.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u6	This is not a meeting board...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u7	A respectable president. I have to say, because there was a debate here. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, chairman of the budget board, deserves one thing that Vigdís Hauk's daughter, the chairman of the budgetary committee. [[The president calls.]] This is so that she has always been ready to set standards for financial priorities guided by health care. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] And it has been done by this government, and it will continue in its history, including this year's budget, and we will continue to see this terms. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u8	A respectable president. I did not understand the complaints of the senators who spoke earlier, before the last speaker, in order that this would be called for a material discussion on the health system as important as it is. However, it was said of the condition of some people. Councilmen treat members of the committee. [[She highlights...]] If this is the reaction expected by the members of the committee, how should they behave at committee meetings? Suppose they are to be careful that sensitive pride comes at each other. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir ain't hurt? There is, of course, the chairman of the budget board, and there is no money in the whole system. It is very important to be approachable. The chairman of the budget board is so that people are confident that they will speak honestly and honestly about matters without being accused of spiritual violence, which I believe is a term we should have more respect for than this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u9	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u10	Mr. President. I want to thank members of the council for taking up the case with the President. It was a petition made to my section of the budget that the governor of the Land Hospital met with the Committee. They gave us very important information that we need to use to form our suggestions. I believe that the information has been useful to both of us. The members of the smaller part and greater part, and I am very sorry that our request, to discuss the problems of the National Hospital, caused such trouble and the big words that have fallen. It is not good for the respect of the Generals, and it is bad if we cannot listen to the wishes and explanations of the heads of the National Hospital when they are in trouble.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u11	V.E.G. President. We are here at the Council, and we too have an influence and need to be careful how we use this power and that effect. When representatives of the National Hospital come to a branch office asking for higher financial resources - because of the lack of necessary maintenance of the hospital and the lack of additional funding in the hospital operating center - individuals are not serving their behaviour, they are there for the public to protect the emergency and life-rescuing activities of the hospital. It's completely disturbing that people will have to go through a riot like that. The chairman of the budget board, Vigdís Hauksdóttir, has faced the situation. I ask the president to speak to her, and she apologizes for her comments.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u12	A respectable president. The nation's surveys have repeatedly shown that there is a willingness to settle matters of health care and that even here at the World Council has made cross - political statements at least to put the health system first. Therefore, it is important that we have a clean and good conversation with the institutions in our health - care system and at our national hospital. That conversation needs to be upbuilding and balanced. I would like to agree with other members of the council that it is very dangerous to use such a priceless term as violence or spiritual violence because there is now plenty of it in society. If we generals, we who have been elected to lead, do not tolerate, I don't think there's a great demand for that opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u13	Mr. President. Like other members of Parliament who have been present here, I am amazed. I think it's a very humiliating thing to do. The chairman of the legal committee will then speak down to those who come, and in this case the director of the Land Hospital and his people, to a financial committee, and to account for the serious situation of the national hospital. We must be able to trust that visitors who represent a budget committee are welcome and that these things are not being babbled out and south like a whale. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir has. It draws not only the official office she is in, but also all of the council. We're all put down in this kind of behavior. The hospital's crisis, the Land Hospital, has not been assigned to the budget to account for nothing. It's a serious situation, and humans can't afford to go along with it. The chairman of the budget board has been included.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u14	A respectable president. I'm sorry about this discussion. I kind of feel like it's turned into its opposite side. I had this meeting, and I have to say, it's obvious that people are experiencing these events each in their own way. As far as I know, for a financial committee, there is a direct exchange of opinions, honesty about problems, and trying to figure out how to deal with them. At least much of this, the vice president of the budget board was conducting a meeting. The meeting was held when traffic traffic jams were all over town, and people were rather late and may have been pissed off. [[The president calls.]] And that was true of other parties in this matter. So I challenge people, more delegates, to express their experiences in the meeting. [[The president calls.]] But at least I know I'm talking for some more people.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u15	To answer, financial and economic secretary, social and housing minister, environment and resource minister and Minister of state.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u16	A respectable president. Today, the United Nations climate conference begins in Paris. High expectations are held at that conference, with climate problems being the largest solution in the world at present. The success of this conference is fundamental to whether we will succeed in creating life - giving conditions here on earth. In a recent government parish policy, we note the low level of measurable goals and the small amount of money being contributed to climate reform. True, Iceland has declared that it wants to go in rhythm with European countries and reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40% in 2030. You need something more firmly to see how it should be possible. This will cost money, but it is not to be seen in the parish policy that it is discussed. In the case of the seabed, where the article itself has been involved, the only thing that clearly holds out a clear goal is that of the Kingdom. It's been four years since Iceland accepted the recovery of wetlands as a countermand but found no outputs in this regard. In recent years the government has chosen its contracts to make public transport to the rural areas here in the capital area, but the campaign there may be one significant corruption. The aim of increasing the share of renewable energy in transport is, in fact, simply to remute when the 2011 approved 2011 target of the share of renewable energy in transport is to be 10% in 2020. The only money-wise development we can see is making changes now, 87 million. K. a contribution to building infrastructure for electric cars, but this government spent almost half of that in new Ministers this year. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] None of them use electricity. You ask yourself, " Where is the priorities of the government,'will the secretary of finance ensure that money will be added to this suit, and we will be able to maintain a commitment that we'll make in Paris? ' [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u17	Mr. President. It is vital that we remain promised. In recent years, the sounds of Congress that have been discussed in this series have caused too often a lack of budgetary plans. Plans are now being introduced that require further financial contributions, and this is failed by the government's proposal at 2nd. Funds that are now being worked on in the budget board. It involves both individual projects, such as the Environment Ministry, and I could specifically mention deforestation projects that are part of the strategy, but also the issues established in the inquiry and the public transport. I have generally felt that there was a considerable lack in the fact that Iceland and I put ourselves just in an environmental discussion. We often take this discussion as if we are even near the root cause of climate problems when the fact is that what is going on in other parts of the world is the main problem. What's happening in China every year. For example, China is now making large increases in aluminium production, more or less, by building new and more powerful coal - powered plants. When this total link between parts is included in the climate discussion, there are so many things we Icelanders can address, especially in the international context. Then, when it comes to accepting the discussion at home about how we want to do even better, we can set goals for getting even more ahead, but we should not take up a discussion on climate in the international context on the grounds that we are in debt to the outside world. I just don't think that's right. We need to maintain a much higher requirement for others to act in the same way that we Icelanders have. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u18	A respectable president. I'm pretty confused after those answers. Secretary of finance. Shares at the highest. Secretary of finance is not the ultimate goal. Prime Minister has declared that Iceland should be planning to be a non-carbon land? Is it helpful in this discussion to talk about what we do in other areas, for example, when we stand far behind most neighboring countries on public transportation? There are plenty of things that other nations can improve with greenhouse gas emissions, but that is also a lot of things we can improve. And isn't it nice to focus on them? The government has dropped carbon tax after it was received, not an increase in the use of carbon. For example, there are so many things you could do and still build up to speed up the electrical fire of a car, instead of taking these steps. We could be doing a lot of other things for the benefit of a lot of other things, but it really doesn't help the discussion if people don't even socialize themselves as to how they want to reduce emissions and aim for Iceland to be a non-carbon land. [[The president calls.]] Is that not the position of the entire government? [[The president calls.]] Or is it just a prime minister who wants to aim for it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u19	A respectable president. Yes, I agree that we can do better. We are to set ambitious goals to improve our relationship with nature. Let us not place ourselves in the wrong place during the discussion with the world around us. The main threat of the human race from greenhouse gases, not from its source in Iceland, at its source in other parts of the world, perhaps especially in China. This should be part of the discussion. Then, as we discuss the situation in Iceland today and how we want to approach these issues in the present and future, it is also important that we have the overall context of the parts here at home clear, such as the fact that the only car is not the source of the problem. He is part of the problem, but in recent years he has also made big progress. We can tell by the way machines have become much more penniless and, like, cool. A senator mentions, electric cars are opening up new possibilities, new homes. In a recent answer from the Environment Ministry to what? paritaprevir The powers of Sigríður found that the recovery of wetlands has a far greater opportunity than any action that would focus on the private car. [[The president calls.]] Let's discuss this whole context a little deeper here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u20	Mr. President. I'd like to continue this quest for climate, which is our biggest subject here and in the whole world. Of course, they are now focused on the Paris climate conference, which is the largest subject and is about how we can prepare our children and grandchildren for a future and what we can do to help them. We had a climate walk last night, just like the highest level. Minister is expected to be known. Three requirements were set there. First, Iceland alone reduces 40% of total emissions to the highest level. The prime minister has said internationally. Secondly, Iceland is planning to become a non-carbon land, back to the highest level. The prime minister has said internationally. And third, the elimination of oil - processing plans. Now, in the world, despite all the ambitious goals that have been set, the use of nonrenewable sources of energy is being made up, whether we look at oil, coal, or gas. This energy consumption is increasing. Just last week, a representative from Australian environmental organizations showed that there was a chance to open up large coal mines in Australia. It's supposed to sell the coal on sale because it's going to be an unpopular source of energy as it goes, so they're going to try to use this energy now, even though we know the consequences. Therefore, a statement that says that Iceland decides to consider the matter of disappearing from oil processing may have an impact. Although we are a small nation, even though we are not very responsible for the large context that is right, such a declaration might have an effect. It may send an important message to the world that it is important that we abandon the energy policy we have been dealing with. Sadly, renewable energy is a very small part of what we are using. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking the highest. Minister: Does she agree with the three goals set out as the demands of the climate march yesterday?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u21	A respectable president. I thank you for the inquiry and truly agree that climate is one of the world's biggest subjects today, an exciting subject, and an all - out challenge. Here we should keep in mind that all our activities and even our thinking should be more or less focused on how we can deal with climate problems. All waste, excess consumption affects climate, so human behavior has a lot to say. I feel that the government of Iceland has made very ambitious plans. It's not true what we've seen here earlier today that we don't like public transportation or anything else. This is an application schedule in addition to the current schedule. There's a plan of action about just public transportation and other things. We're adding to and around the budget, you're supposed to see an example of where you're adding on the climate. As I could about them, they touch so many things. We're very proud of the Environment Ministry how well we're being improved in our plans now between discussions. It is particularly relevant to our view of climate. We are united with the European nations and Norway for a 40% reduction, and we will work to that end. It's two-way, we're still in the Kyoto Protocol until 2020, and more than that, the strategy we've been working on is how we're able to get even better up to 2030. We want to aim for that, and I agree with Prime Minister that we will be here with renewable energy sources as well as with the transport process. This has been observed before. About disappearing... well, I'll answer about the oil industry in my second speech. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u22	Mr. President. The requirement, as stated at one time international level, is that Iceland reduces 40%, not just 40%, but 40%, of its own emissions. That's what I'm asking the highest. To: Does she think it's the right requirement for Iceland, to reduce emissions by 40%, just by Iceland? Secondly, I asked if we should set policy on non-carbon Iceland. The minister said it was important to change transport energy sources. But does it support policy? She will support our left-green decree of the Council to the highest degree. Ministers will be assigned to implement an action plan so the council can agree to a non-carbon-free Iceland programme of 2050? Supports the highest. A minister of the proposal to get on the program and to be taken care of? We have a situation so that we do not even keep the warmth of the earth within the two degrees, which, however, are absolute goals. One and a half degrees is needed if we are to prevent, for example, the islands of the Pacific Ocean from sinking to sea. [[The president calls.]] And then I ask about the oil process again.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u23	A respectable president. I've chosen my middle policy. It's my value. I believe a gypsy jacket is usually the best. I'm not an extreme person, and I'm very comfortable with what we have now. I will not support policy of the left green. I also think it's odd that the last government has started oil operations and then it's over now. I always support research and progress. I'm not going to stop the course of time. Our time may come when we need it. I think it's better to have oil on the basis than to be transporting it with related climate change from the south.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u24	A respectable president. A few days ago, I asked the highest. Minister of the state of the state of the state to repay any proposals for police surveillance. V.E.G. Then a minister told me that she was expecting a report the following day, which, of course, were good news. I'm very happy that the report has arrived. However, I have to say that the suggestion leads to a slight disappointment. The most important thing to us and others is the fact that there is an independent agency that supervises police activities and practices not only when it comes to criminal behavior but also when it comes to complaints involving things like manners and the use of power and the like. In Norway, Denmark, and Sweden, as reported in the report, even though this institution is in Sweden, there are independent organizations. In Finland, it seems to me that the whole arrangement is like, basically, if not everybody. The proposal to appoint three men; one of Iceland's attorneys, one of the nominees of the Icelandic Human Rights Office, and the last nominated by the Supreme Court. Minister of Foreign Affairs himself, and shall he be president. The role of this committee, as far as I can see, is primarily to forward requests, charges, tips, and similar to those already in general who are at the same time considering these issues, i.e. The district attorney or district attorney when it comes to criminal conduct, but it is not expected that the committee will self-examine or participate in an investigation of the specific issues of complaint, such as behaviour. In short, I don't think I've gone far enough. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he thinks the suggestions go far enough. I'd also like to ask if the highest. After publication of this report, a minister has already set the next step.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u25	V.E.G. President. Like what? The senator mentioned that this report has recently come into my hands. We got it delivered on Friday was late. I have just learned the contents of the report, and it seems reasonable to continue working on the basis of the suggestions presented there. I would especially like to thank the committee who worked this case for her work. The review of the Commission provides both well-formed proposals to adapt, of course, but also suggestions for rules that I believe are a very good means of success that should be to their satisfaction. I feel like there's a step that's desirable for us to continue working with the Ministry, moving this into a special administrative committee. I call attention to the fact that if memory doesn't betray me, the bottom line of this committee is not expected to be a lawsuit against the Ministry, which I think is a great improvement. In general, I think it's wise to bring a committee outside this standard control system. Even though I did. A senator may be able to debate how far he should go during the first step, and I feel that he is taking a wise step toward reaching out for this delicate group that we often address here in the halls of the Generals and is certainly not out of need. There I think people are taking steps to better control the problems that have long been involved in society's discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u26	A respectable president. I see a lot of things up there, I can quite accept that, because a lot of pots are broken, as is actually shown in the report. There are many things that have been undefined so far that have developed over time without enough guidance around how things should be. The very fact that these matters are to be arranged in some structure is positive. My disappointment is particularly that I would have wanted to see a special institution, which would be the General Office rather than the Ministry. Although it may not be absolute key to how this arrangement should be conducted, I don't think the committee has a prominent role in the investigation. I can see that the complaints that come to the police only go to the police and that they have the same problems that we're dealing with right now, either that they're ignored or whatever it is. I'm wondering if it's the highest. A minister is willing to examine the ideas of going further on these issues, especially when it comes to the independence of the Agency.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u27	A respectable president. In this regard, I think it would be good to bear in mind the legal adjustments we made in connection with the establishment of a special district attorney. There's some insides that have to do with the police. I think it's very important to look at this in context, i.e. The criminal legislation in terms of the district attorney and then the suggestions presented in the results of this committee. This case cannot be resumed by any other way than to prepare a legal bill. And once the Ministry has done all that, it will appear here at the council. The committee provided a draft of lyrics, of course not a full bill with related comments, so everything needs to be looked at. But I think that considering our system and our ability to do things properly, we're going forward.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u28	A respectable president. Now the Independence Party's policy is that if Icelanders wish to participate in international competition, the U.S.A. will be unable to pay the country's future fee, to quote the National Conference Release since the fall. It further says that instead of the Icelandic kroner, a wide recording of coins should be done, allowing citizens and companies to decide which currency is best for them. So I direct my question to the highest. The secretary of finance and economics, as well as the chairman of the Independence Party, about whether he is working on this agreement and how. The rest of us, who are not of the Independence Party, are concerned with serious consideration of whether to adopt another currency and how our position is handled in currency. In this context, I would like to point out that a bright future has been repeatedly proposed to be designed for future currency. It says, among other things, that the use of the currency should strengthen the long - term trust in the Icelandic economy and that its use should increase the potential for stable prices, lower growth and higher standard of living, that the currency should increase the freedom in foreign business and that the currency should be suitable for Icelandic employment and export, that the currency should facilitate economic management, reduce the risk to the Icelandic economy, and be less risky than other options. It further states that currency policies should be well carried out in view of other concordances needed in terms of government, money, and agreements with other countries. I also wanted to direct it to the highest. The secretary of the economy, whether he wanted to take advantage of these points for the work he must be in if policies such as national meetings are to be of any importance to his class.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u29	Mr. President. Yes, it should be easy to agree that there is no future solution to our currency. That's why we're working to lift the seas. We have developed a reliable program that has led to the rise in government credit ratings and other large corporations in the country as well as to clear the way for the suspension. However, the currency business is very large and extensive discussion. I'm not going to say it's so big it can't be emptied into a chamber, but there's a lot to think about. For example, I'm going to call attention to what. One way in which Professor Paul Krugman wrote recently is by pointing out that the choice of currency involves how one wants to go through a crisis. He concludes that because Iceland had an independent currency, while the Irish joint currency with the euro had the adjustment after the collapse was much easier for us. This is part of the discussion of currency. I'm thinking that it takes something very much to give away the economic potential of an independent currency because, by an independent currency, humans are always defending their jobs. I also feel that the strength of these options should be considered. Therefore, I feel that it must be our main objective to clean up in my own study, settle down debt, secure change in government and public financial matters in general, and thus contribute to a stronger position, which, in the end, will lead to change in the future. [[The president calls.]] At the moment, I don't really think we have a chance other than the crown, and we can succeed with it as we have shown.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u30	A respectable president. I understand the response of the secretary of finance so that the decision of the Party is only to be made, as it were, the highest. The minister of finance went over, very large and much, but this is because we have very little coins in a small country. True, the minister points out that some scholars have claimed that just this small coin helped us get out of this crisis, but that does not change the fact that we have been exposed to these very little coins. It may be the root cause of the problem. Instead of always exalting the coin as a way to handle this problem, consider getting rid of the underlying problem. I don't believe that we've already made up for it, even if it's going to work. But if it goes perfectly, we'll still be here with a crown that isn't in some sort of oceans. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u31	Mr. President. I cannot agree that we have found ourselves in a crisis here in the crisis that will be brought to the coin as such. Unrespect behavior led to our having a problem, and the crown gang then reflected how to deal with it. Or as for the Greeks, the low interest rates of the euro enabled them to get into trouble, and that's why the whole euro is at fault. Yet, the foundation was the main problem. In Cyprus a currency head had to be placed on a common currency currency for the Cypians, the strong, common coin. The main point of this is that there is no less baptism for me. There is no easy solution. You can't escape responsibility for yourself and act wisely, and I still feel like we're in the middle of changing regulations here. We've done a lot of things. [[The president calls.]] We hope that we are about to complete the legal process of public financial matters. In the years to come, we can draw strength, get ourselves in a very jealous position, and then I'm sure I'd like to take a look at everything in this national conference.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u32	V.E.G. President. In the current year, both in the general labour market and in the government, pay and employment agreements have been negotiated or have been brought to a decision by a judicial committee. Thus, in mid - November, the Council made it clear that all main lines could be determined by law, and this made a decision on the salary of presidents, judges, ministers, members of Congress, governors of state, and some others 9.3% increase - backward. Then I come to what I want to ask the highest. Secretary of finance to the top. The budget now shows that the government is not going to raise the social security paid to the elderly and desperate again, as any bargain deal is about, as I mentioned earlier. They will be left alone this year, not to be paid, but to be thought again from January 1 of the following year. That's why I'm coming up here. I feel that this year, when we have budgets at the council that are more than 22 billion dollars. left this year, that we should see our own dignity in improving the quality of the pensioner, disability, and others - backward, as all contracts go on. But that's not done, and that's why I'm asking the highest. Financial Minister: Aren't we supposed to join here at the General Assembly to reinvent the elderly and the desperate like everyone else gets this year? Why should they sit on their own?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u33	Mr. President. This is a question of a sensitive case party, an improvement in social security, but we've had legislation on these matters that changes in rights take into account the status of the year, i.e. changes are made at the New Year's Eve. I thought it was mid summer that there was going to be an improvement of 8.9%. By means of the budget bill, we had calculated these figures according to the latest trends, and then we are walking from an increase of 9.4% a year. The 2nd. it is clear that there has been an even further increase in salary during the year, but we expected to make a contribution to the budget, so it is heading for an increase of 9.7% during the New Year's Evening Meal. This increase takes into account the lack of improvement in 2015 compared with budgets and then actual development in the year; however, this 9.7% increase is expected to occur in the next year. At New Year's convention, after the 9.7% increase, improvements have increased beyond pay as they have increased under collective contracts until the next increase in collective agreements takes effect in the spring months. Then the collective agreements will go up to the credit classes for a percentage increase. And it can be expected that the next time compensation increases, it will somehow be equal. That's the dolphin race in it. It is important, though, that we discuss here whether we want to make a change in the law of reform that there is actually some kind of pay because we have not viewed it this way, and hence, not in all the same law of payment and of employment markets that are agreed on.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u34	V.E.G. President. V.E.G. A financial minister began his case with the fact that this was a sensitive group of subjects. You're absolutely right. This delicate group is in our hands at the Council. Hv. paritaprevir Hjörvar's Helgi said that the Allied Council is the advice of the elderly and the desperate. That's right. It hasn't always been a New Year's Eve. When agreements were made in 2011, the then welfare minister, the Guðbjartur - fearing name Hannesson, was blessed to be his memory, a law that raised this one, and even in the middle of the year. I understand it hasn't been done before. My question to the highest. Secretary of finance continues, from 22 billion dollars. leftover this year, which I predict will be raised when the result of a state bill is found that it is a table for the table: Why don't we get back together at the General Assembly because the state, the enterprise, the people of the labour market, and everyone have put it back in line? [[The president calls.]] I challenge the highest. Secretary of finance to promote the restoration of older people and poorer ones like everyone else in society.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u35	Mr. President. Making a decision to increase over the middle of the year will result in a much smaller increase over the next year. We are always looking at prices and on the other hand, remuneration. We have legally ensured reformers the right to experience increases in harmony with the two that are increasing. If we take part of that increase in the middle of the year, less is needed to correct the years. We are in general doing this so that the change will be over the years, and as I explained earlier, the rise that will be over the years so that we can get past the raise in January as compared to the collective agreements that have been made this year. I'll take part in a discussion about it if people want to do this so that we start doing this more often during the year, not just having it happen for a year, which in itself is just a practical thing, but it's not possible to take this discussion, so it's missing something. [[The president calls.]] We're making sure all the elevations come back, it's just a matter of when that year happens.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u36	Mr. President. The background of this case is that at the 143th legislature, 2013◯2014, I proposed a bill to legalize the law of income tax, which was intended to handle the so - called thin self - payment. This phenomenon has been quite significant in recent public discussions and is particularly focused on international partnerships where maternal communities are located elsewhere than their bloodline. This concept does not exist if all the enterprises within the kit are located in the same country but will exist in international communities. If the mother's partner wants to take as much of her profits as possible, it is now more practical for the motherhood to loan large sums, which are paid back with large interests, which actually include payment on the subsidiary's profits, all of which should be paid out in the interest of a motherhood owner in the form of interest. For example, this has been an international discussion involving all kinds of international companies. I remember, for example, the Starbucks chain. This has been discussed in the United Kingdom, especially in the way of achieving the profits that are actually being taken from the country in this way. This has especially been discussed in this country around the big aluminium companies. My case was referred to the Economic and Business Committee, which gave the Commission an article suggesting that the bill be referred to the government. The commission noted that the Commission's reviewers and visitors were generally very positive about the objective of the bill and that it has to be set as a rule for the development of their own financial resources. This bill did not come out of the blue. It was based, among other things, on a report prepared for the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs in 2011. However, legal comments were made. The Economic and Business Committee considered the target of the bill to be positive, but they needed further attention based on legal remarks, which was therefore referred to by the government. Here I quote directly from the Committee's opinion, by permission of the president: ▪ If the commission takes place in such a way as to consider and work in spring and summer, and to be reassigned to the General Assembly in a better version, it will be considered as the Minister's Committee or as the prime minister sent to the Commission at the next autumn Summit, which describes them ready to deliver the case. That was April 3, 2014. Now on December 2015, I'd like to ask the highest question. Minister what work to do with this case is going through. I think it's very important to deal with this in Icelandic legislation. Many of our neighbors have handled this matter, which suggests how we can close the gaps in the tax system, so in this case international companies cannot take advantage of their profits from abroad. All of us should strive to create the system to function properly. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: What's the work on this case? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u37	Mr. President. A similar inquiry was made at the 144th annual legislature. 708 to 460. In response to the request, it was noted that the Ministry closely monitored a specific project done by OECD under the English name Base Erasion and Profit Shifting, which could be published in Icelandic terms as atrophy and tax reforms. This work, among other things, aims for ways to interfere with the misuse of tax laws from taxes, including excessive or even abnormal growth costs. This work of OECD ended last October with a version of 15 different effectiveness programmes, which can be found in equal numbers of reports. These reports can be accessed on the homepage of OECD. It is now the task of all Member States of OECD to take steps to adapt to the above action programmes, which, in many cases, require changes at home and that are not excluded from Iceland. The strategy or report that looks particularly to the thin self-finishing or limitation of interest is published under what we could say in Icelandic on how to reduce the degradation of tax institutions with limitation of growth and other capital-related remuneration, so I refuse to use the English term. These data are currently available, occurred several weeks ago. At the beginning of the Ministry's expert work, we review all these OECD programmes and we assume that work will be major during the coming year. In this context it should also be kept in mind that in other parts of the North countries a close consultation on their plans for these matters, particularly on interest extractions, as well as on the extended market rules of middle prices, has to be made by Icelandic companies living under similar rules and values in neighboring countries. However, there is no hope that a bill on the possible limitation of growth recovery or the development of a thin self-finishment will be available at this council unless it is used for introductions. However, given a reason, it is worth reviewing that Icelandic income tax laws already contain important regulations. At 57th. income taxes are tax taxes in the case of extraordinary business conditions, including cross-cutting or abnormal interest terms, tax control measures or tax research programs, which make it abnormal when it comes to the opinion of an enterprise's tax divorce. In other words, it can be noted that the intermediate value, the exchange of loans and the intra-compatibilities are general factors in the standard government monitoring of the company's tax returns at any given time. However, it does not make any difference that we should take these new criteria, these strategy, for a special consideration. This is one of a lot of people involved in the global competitive environment for employment but also the tax environment for the government to ensure that people do not take advantage of gaps and holes in different taxation countries in order to maximise their profits at the expense of those who need normal donations, the involvement of the companies, to cover community costs. This is a very living debate, not just because of the thin self-finance or this interest expenditure, which has often been discussed here, but because of drawing countries to themselves, even over the Atlantic, international companies with the tax policy. The last thing we see is that Pfizer and Allergan's fusion makes it very important in the United States that the company that has so much activity on that side of the Atlantic should, for tax reasons, be settled in Ireland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u38	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. However, while I had chosen to make this issue work more quickly, I also feel a grammatical argument that we are doing this most in cooperation with other nations. I'm aware of the work that's been inside OECD and the highest. The minister went over here. Some countries have already established a set of rules, but of course, it is also clear that the rules are better if they are uniformed between countries. So I finally want to ask the highest. A minister in general about his vision of the trends that seem to occur following the crisis in the world, following a discussion of tax cover and various collections of tax legislation, which are increasingly emphasised on cooperation between countries, whether they are considered to be a very positive trend in looking to further international cooperation in tax matters, in view of the fact that the level of employment has become much more internationalized than it was 20 years ago, which makes it a radical situation in the tax law. We are members of the EEA, and it would not surprise me that at least within that table, tax issues would be more discussed in the future when it comes to international rules. Something else I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on the subject may be more Teoretic. He said before then that he wasn't expecting a bill at this council, except for introductions, and I think we're going to have a bill on these matters at the next council, so at least this work should be completed in the season.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u39	Mr. President. First with the bill, I'd like to say that this work is currently being done by government officials in the Ministry. I have stressed that these matters will be examined and that we will respond to indications as to what might be considered in our legislation to coordinate the actions of the government that aim to minimize the risks of such ahead. In fact, we are talking about an organization that international companies have tried to use to avoid what we could call a natural taxation. I admit that OECD has been doing a very significant job in recent years, including Just in the field of information. I signed not long contracts on our behalf to include information exchanges in the area of taxes in order to further squeeze those who want to shoot off from healthy and normal taxation. To answer that question, I believe that we should remain open for information exchange of that kind. However, there are two underlying worlds to deal with. That's when I'm talking in general about taxation. On the one hand, the world that says that it must continue to harmonize indefinitely until all tax competition has actually been destroyed, and on the other hand, the world that says it is healthy, normal, fair, and even dropped to economic progress is that countries compete in the tax field. I agree with the theory, I agree to the school that it is probably normal for countries to compete for corporate favors, including on the tax field, however, there should be full transparency and open books and any information you can give. [[The president calls.]] That's how I think we're getting the most economic progress.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u40	A respectable president. The current drug - abuse penalty policy has not been effective in reducing drug abuse or in bringing relief to consumers. People face criminal records for possession of drugs that permanently restrict their job opportunities and their freedom to travel. Research shows that those with social, health, or personal problems are far more likely to become dependent on addiction. Therefore, it is of utmost importance to view drug abuse as a matter of well - being and health care. consumers must be able to seek assistance without fear of high guilt or loss of life prospects. The World Health Organization recently proposed that personal abuse of drugs be taken personally and that the same is also recommended in a new United Nations report. This route has taken place in many countries, and the results are always positive in many countries that take drugs lightly. On April 8, 2014, at the Icelandic sociologists' seminar on the DEA laws and the benefits of policy development, criminal slaving, the highest reported. A health minister, Kristján Þór Júlíusson, said that the policies that have been prevalent in Iceland were not successful enough. He said that our moral obligation was to reexamine the situation and to look to experienced and new ways of dealing with illicit drug abuse. I'd like to pry a little over my old questions to the highest level. Minister of the state, whether or not she agrees with her platoon brother on this. In addition, I would like to point out that in a 2009 report by the Department of Prisons (U.S.A.), there are 31.8% of the cases responsible for the imprisonment here on a drug crime site. That's the largest part of crime in Iceland. However, this ratio has increased somewhat in the past ten years, leaving 25% in 2000 and up to this 30%. So I repeat my question, which was asked in advance whether a minister intends to revise criminal punishments. I'd also like to direct a question to a minister about carriers, whether there's something in the Ministry's examination of the situation and the possible assistance provided by animals on drugs, and to bring up her opinions on this sort of case that I think we need to consider in a more thorough review.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u41	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for taking up this case here. She asks two questions; whether a minister is interested in reevaluating anti-drug penalties, and then she asks specifically about carrier animals and softening the penalty against them. I'm gonna let myself go, chief. President, to answer this in common, i.e. taking this subject into consideration and answering it as a whole. I think it's very important to recall that there are two legal classes involved in the punishment of drug abuse. On the one hand, because of the general penal law, these cases are often more serious, and then there is a law on addiction and drugs. Of course, the public law is responsible, but the drug and drug law is responsible, and the health issues are like that. A senator mentioned, of the responsibility of the health minister. Hence, it is so important that the decision to reconsider the legal punishment of illegal legislation is not enough just to look to public penalties. In this regard, I agree that in view of punishment, it is not enough to look at this issue as determined by the punishment itself but to look to other laws. In a general penal code, punishment is required in drug crimes, 173 p.m. a. This is in the section of the Law that deals with violations that carry a public risk, including those causing public health risks, such as spreading serious diseases and/or causing a fire that carries a public risk, so I take it into account in that section. The violation of this law may be up to 12 years in prison. Drug and drug laws also require penalties in drug abuse, where they can spend up to 6 years in prison. When drug abuse has developed, it has either been charged with violations of public law or with specific drug and drug laws. The principle has developed that the law against drug and drug abuse is under attack in smaller drug abuses than in violations of greater criminal law. Hence, whether major or minor fractures are involved is primarily the amount of the materials involved. Thus, depending on the extent to which it is taken, either a violation of the law of the general penalties or a drug law is charged. It is also of great importance to point out that under the order of the State Attorney, it is permitted to end cases due to certain violations of drug and drug laws with the rights of the police. It's done. Such instructions were issued in February 2009, and they are publicized. When discussing punishment for drug abuse, it must be borne in mind that this problem has to do with fractures that are largely health problems. These are not only health problems of those involved who themselves are involved in drug abuse but are involved in the health of many of those who take drugs and become drug addicts, even at an early age. Thus, the risks of using drugs in a large group of people, and especially the dangers of causing drug addicts, have led young people to view the import and production of these substances seriously. So the problem will not be solved in a simple way simply by changing the boundaries of these offenses. In my mind, punishments against drug abuse will not be reviewed without also considering the part of these matters considered medically. So again and again, I would especially like to call attention to the health - care minister's work on the staff whose task it is to offer suggestions on shape policies to reduce the harmful consequences and side effects of drug abuse. That team is still working. We hope that he will submit his findings in the near future, and it is relevant for our work at the Ministry of Internal Affairs to see how we view the outcome of the matter. Therefore, at this point, I do not feel slow with the incomplete work to take sides with the 173. g. a general penal law. I believe that the review of the drug law needs to be well prepared, and it needs to be based on more than just the factors, and I don't get tired of referring to what is to the penalty, since there I think that we are, in large part, mistakenly wronging the problem that lies ahead if people think that this lawsuit is that it will be solved on the basis of criminal legislation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u42	A respectable president. V.E.G. The local minister mentioned the group of members who have taken up the work at the Department of Health, so I don't go into it for the short time I have. In this context, I wanted to mention that the case group of drugs or, in particular, the government's reaction to the drug problem has appeared to be historic in the form of nervousness, especially in the late 20th century when society seemed to experience it as some new threat, but drugs are not a new threat. Alcohol, an example of thousands of years with dangerous drugs, has been with us. There's no debate among professionals with my knowledge. The problem involved with this by punishment is basically a wrong approach. I think public opinion and, in fact, the opinion of the international institutions involved is getting closer to that conclusion all the time, so I welcome this discussion and, in particular, the response of the highest level. Ministers, but they also have full faith that there will be changes for the better as people discuss this because the main problem on this subject is that people have not wanted to discuss it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u43	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for the answers, and I expect to get clearer answers about animals in the second answer. I agree with that, too. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson needs to be discussed. In the latter part of the century, many studies have supported what has brought people to the conclusion that these social and health problems cannot be dealt with with by punishment and fanaticism but, in some part of the world, are located deeper in society and community. It's also a large part of a question about attitudes and opportunities and so many things that you can't reach if you just want to look at things from one point of view. I thank the minister for the clear answer in that regard, for I couldn't understand her words except that this jury would not be solved by punishment, I hope I am right behind them. Then I wanted to ask her another question. As noted earlier, in unprepared inquiry, I was reading the National Conference of Independence Party releases for the weekend, a lot of fun, and it said that prevention of drugs would not be punished, and police and health care professionals would take it into account. Although that may have already happened, I wanted to know if there was any work going on, other than in this group of people, about bringing it into work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u44	V.E.G. President. I'm glad to hear it. A senator has found such helpful literature in his leisure time. But as for that, as a matter of course. The senator asked that, and I didn't have a chance to answer in my previous answer, and to face the carriers, it is very important to remember that there may be a very different reason why the person is in the position that appears there. As we examine the need to look at laws of burden - and now I want to say that often and often it's a miserable situation that drives people to become carriers - it's important to remember that when we're going to look at these things in the law, there's quite a lot to think about. We appreciate it so that when it comes to it, the same thing needs to be viewed as a whole, and the development of the whole legislature must be viewed. Of course, the farm animals are underneath that. I can't go further in answering as far as it goes at this point. However, I would like to reiterate what I said before, and of course stand by, that this group of languages is so grown that it is not limited to the penal law. This is the result of events that have occurred in the lives of the individual and is largely a social and health problem. I think the next step for us to consider that this longer-term case is to put your arms around it. It is important that the work force be made clear to us in the Ministry of Internal Affairs so that we can put our arms around it and then wonder what it will shed light on the laws under us and how we can best deal with it so that we will achieve our goal of solving the problems of those who have experienced such problems.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u45	A respectable president. From loans have been more bitter in history than many can see. Such discussions have a religious history and have even caused differences among cultural groups in this regard. That's a lot bigger than most people realize. Now, in general, I believe that people have to be responsible for their own finances. They need to be able to make informed decisions, and this requires that they have access to information, and this requires understanding of their actions, understanding the business relationship they are developing. This is the case when overgrading loans, credit cards, or mortgages are paid, especially if they are insured. I believe that there is a time, motivation, and confidence that people in general can fully examine these matters. However, if they do, they may conclude that it may be wise to have a credit card or a credit card. But what I'm privileged to understand is how a person can come to a conclusion based on meditation and careful consideration that it is wise to take a small loan. In this regard, I feel that it is important for me to be clear and, to some extent, to have a strict rule about how a small loan operation is permitted. It is important that there is some progress in loans and money so that progress can follow. But everything I've done and what I've thought about this little loan is that it especially appeals to people who can't afford it. In one study in Britain, 60% claimed to regret taking a small loan, and 48% felt that their financial status was getting worse because of them. Now, the person here has often taken over and often got into a little trouble by doing so, but I can't exactly say that I regret it because often you're just a victim, something like that, or just don't care for the time being. But I can't help it if someone came to me and asked if he should take a small loan, I wouldn't ask what the situation was, I would say, "No, don't do it. It's such a bad idea. It's a huge cost. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Interior Minister: Has there been a thorough investigation of the Ministry, or, after an incident at the courts, of the legitimate value of so - called small loans? Has anyone discussed this type of loan work at the EEA or the European Union? Does a minister have information on how these loans are borrowed, and how difficult is it to deal with them? Can small loan companies have legitimate demands on borrowers, and do ministers know examples of attempts by small loan companies to collect from partners? Has been investigated by the Ministry or the Substitute Systems to the question whether minor loans, e.g. We collected drugs? Most important, have borrowers trapped in small loans from the government to get out of their wood, and if not, does a minister think that such measures or assistance are needed?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u46	V.E.G. President. I hope I can answer these six questions in my first reply. Let's give it a shot. Hv. The senator, in particular, looks at his first question to see if the rights of these loans have been investigated, does not ask my particular opinion of them, but of their legitimateness. First, even small loans are not illegal in themselves. However, there is not much information about such loans. No. No. No. 33/2013, a small loan that goes on, among other things, accounts for the maximum cost allowed to be required by the consumers in regard to loans. According to Section 26. The annual rate of costs may not exceed 50% plus operating growth. A consumer agency has made decisions on loans acting as loan companies and has concluded that the laws of the law were violated on the calculation of the annual share of costs and maximum annual costs. The Agency has taken the initiative to change its calculations and to forbid them to collect costs that are higher than the maximum allowed in the law, as well as those imposed by the government fines on the companies. At that time, the consumers' clinic has made decisions about day-to-day violations against the Agency's decision. Kredia and a small loan, a company on this market, have now set out to make an account of the decision, and it has the effect of a significant decrease in expenses collected from the loans. Second, it is asked if there has been a discussion of this type of loan operation at the European Union or the European Union. In addition to information about government action in other countries because of small loans, consumer clinics have cooperated with European sister organizations. No formal cooperation has been performed, but there are no uniform actions, regulations, directives or instructions in the European Union on small loans. Thus, rules that apply in any state may differ somewhat. In many European countries, consumer cost of taking a small loan is a problem. Different measures have been taken. In some countries, action seems to have led to the absence of small loan companies living there. Then there was a law on consumer loans, No. 33/2013, which I quoted earlier as to how the project was carried out in other countries with regard to peaks in the annual rate of cost. Third, it is asked if a minister has information on how these loans are borrowed and how difficult it is to deal with them. This is why the Department of Ministry has been in contact with the National Institutes, which is the administrative authority in this field. The information being received from consumers about how to collect small loans is that the collection is in accordance with the enterprise's terms. If I take down these conditions of Kredia and small loans, they are such that a creditor grants the borrower a warrant that he obliges the demand as well as the trauma of his client's bank account on due days/days. If there is no deposit in the customer's bank account, the borrower has been authorized to deposit every day from his client's bank account until the demand and all the expenses have been paid. Then there are also the terms of Mutula and T - given money, which I don't see why you read here. These terms are available before borrowing, but according to Article 36. a law on negotiations, which is a fundamental principle in terms of negotiations, can be consulted in a court of opinion. Fourth, it is asked whether a small loan company may have legitimate demands for borrowers and whether a minister is familiar with examples of small loan companies'attempts to collect from partners. There is no evidence that a small loan company required an employee and under their terms that such responsibilities are not required. I don't know myself any of these things, I don't know them, and I can't tell you about them here. Fifth, it is asked whether it was checked by the Ministry or the subsidiary on whether an illegal form of forced labor was administered. There has been no indication that illegal forced labor has been applied to the Ministry since our search for it or to the Netosphere Office. A sixth question is asked about borrowers trapped in minor loans. I'm not going to read the question, but the answer is: There are no options on the part of the government for the consumers in debt on account of small loans. There have not been any indications of such problems, nor has there been any particular discussion within the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u47	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question and the highest. Minister of staff answers. This is very important and I'm not going to go over it here why, that's been done many times. It is important to balance the activities of small loan companies, and it is important that the legislator's force be used firmly to achieve this result. We are waiting for a court case decision that small loan companies have appealed against the Nite Owl because of the day's decision. It is important that, at the same time, we look to other options that may be involved in legislation to reduce the function of small loan companies. One of the points in a question by which you ask. The senator is whether we should create a special way through the current remuneration laws to facilitate the writing of these loans, simplify that process, and create a special career so that those who are unable to deliver them can easily get rid of it. It is a true loan operation that does not rely on any basis that can be called social value. [[The president calls.]] How important it is when loans are turned in such a rich way that we make it easier for people to get out of the community!
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u48	A respectable president. Thank you. The foreman of this query. I believe that each one is to be responsible for his own finances, and that is basically what is supposed to be involved. On the other hand, it has been found with the small loans and with the firm that there are often those who may be inclined, young people and older ones, and that they see the advantage of such companies in applying for the most vulnerable and perhaps the most needed resources for individuals. Given that these are things, I agree with both the highest. Minister as well as any. Foreman that we need to investigate the legal situation that can be prevented. But basically, a respectable president, each one is responsible for his own finances.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u49	A respectable president. I thank you for this discussion that I find very important. There are few things that I hated as much as I did as the vice president of the Council of welfare in Reykjavík and this very small loan operation. They often came on board the board, especially on local authorities'warrants, trying to solve the problems of many young people on a complex problem that we discussed right here, addiction, and other things. I'm going to direct them to the highest degree. The Minister of the Interior Minister to consider the proportion of some type or other type of deduction through the rural areas. They are often paying off these debts.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u50	We'll talk about the small loan companies, and I thank you for the inquiries that have come here and given us the opportunity to discuss the matter. The problems of small loan companies have often been on the agenda for the Economic and Business Committee and have not come about well. This enterprise has extremely obviously avoided the spirit of the law that should not contribute to the growth of more than 50% plus the control interest of the Federal Bank. In fact, as ruled by the Neytend lab, the hosts are approaching 2,000 to three thousand percent. While it has been observed that, of course, people may assume that there are illegal business practices or even being used by the individual's troubled people, they are not in a situation where they are in a situation where they are in trouble to enter a legal case, but I think that the solution lies in that the Neighbours Office should be assigned to ensure that these regulations are not violated, I can't remember a number of what it was, 36. g. I think that the Netothians' office has a duty to keep this law in mind for the consumers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u51	Mr. President. Ever since they allowed me to lend these so - called loans, I've had a bad look at them. It was tried to tighten the law around them, but it seems that it was not enough. This is in my mind a loan loan operation that is directed toward the most vulnerable groups, young people and others in the position of not having a chance to borrow but having this possibility and going into a cycle with them. There have been few cases where people find themselves in a total cycle. I feel that there will be a combination of close surveillance of the companies that give these loans, that they don't exceed those 50% interest, and over heads of this, that there's not going to be a lot of abuse of small loan companies, I think, on consumers who have been. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u52	A respectable president. I have long pondered these so - called loans and surreals regarding that matter. I've rolled it up a million times and asked what it was like with a 36th parre. Contract agreements about obvious unfair terms and, as is, a legal law for which people take advantage of the plight and misery of businessmen. I can agree that much of these loans is a loan loan, that trouble and distress are being capitalized. Once the case has come to the Economic and Business Committee, it's been in the Netosphere Office. I'm going to direct them to the highest degree. The Minister of the Homeland Service to the Nettoll Room examine these two legal columns and whether they really don't cover a small loan because they're taking advantage of the sovereignty of the people with a high standing salary. A respectable president. Don't hit a bell, I'm done. I've finished my case. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u53	A respectable president. I have to thank everyone who has participated in this discussion because she has been very rich even though each person in the ministry has an extremely short time to speak. It is sometimes said that the world's largest and most often told lies consisting of two words, I agree, or in English, by permission of President Igree. This is something most people would like to say online when they get a full doll of some legal language, even in a foreign language, usually in a foreign language, and then it is simply so easy to press the button I agree and get the service which is usually incredibly interesting, important, and all that. One of the big problems I see in the small loan is that my business model is basically going to make it easy to borrow without necessarily passing through the legal hooks and tickles that have to go through to get an informed decision. That is the problem, in the informed decision. If everyone went through the terms of the terms and developed this informed decision and really wondered about it, this might not be a problem, but the very purpose of the ministry is that it is given as the fastest in situations where there is no time or circumstances to apply for overpowering, using credit cards, or other services that are often called a yoke service, if that is the case. I'd especially like to agree with what. 2.m. Smoke. n., Sigurjónsson Sigurionson. He mentioned that there are often individuals who are not in a position to pursue their rights if they feel that they are wrong. It is important that the authorities have perspective and some view of how to make this fair, even though I am able to agree with it and, in fact, in my speech that people in general are to be responsible for their own finances. However, we must also take into account people's abilities and circumstances when it comes to making important decisions. If it is too easy to make too important a mistake, the authorities must do something to cope. Finally, I simply thank you for the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u54	A respectable president. Like others, I want to thank you for this discussion. Participating in it has been helpful. I think it would be good to reiterate that it will be informative to see the findings of courts in the particular case in which the Netostry Office was appointed for the pressures of day's stress. It matters to the way you view the outcome of a court. Then I'm just saying that there's natural freedom of agreement in this country. Directive 36. which has been made up of a historical subject that is rather new in the negotiation laws, thinking that it would be possible for people to use such regulations for treaties against courts. Then people can always make that decision in order to avoid treaties. However, it has proved to be a very difficult task, but it is certainly in defense of certain types of agreements in times of trial. I think it may be very difficult to hide the consumers lab somehow to hold on to that law. That law is primarily thought of using judicial hearings in court.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u55	V.E.G. President. The tymps of tires have been used as a fill material in game and sports areas, mainly on artificial grass fields used for soccer purposes. There is no doubt about it in tyre rubber, but we can't claim anything to be true despite studies of the potential health damage or other long - term effects on the natural environment of these transporters. In 2010, Iceland's Medical Association issued a resolution that challenged the government to ban the use of the plant. This conclusion was followed by a report confirming that it contained potentially dangerous substances that could include cancer. In addition, phenol accumulates in nature with the unpredictable long-term effects on nature and zinc, which, in some cases, are toxic to organisms and lead that can possibly accumulate in the body, cause infertility and damage to the nervous system. Children are also advised to be particularly sensitive to the effects of lead. At that time, an agent of children has expressed concern, and the parents'family and school have concluded that way. In addition to the commercial favors of sports society, the material has been distributed in the fields near school yard, with 111 such storms in many parts of the country from the Knatt's 2004 kickwall network. The EEA has now in accordance with its strategy of changing soccer regulations that require the use of artificial heat to be of a validated form, clear that the color and absence of substances considered hazardous to health or contamination. The wells, however, would be owned and cared for by the local communities, and their responsibility would be maintained. It has to be said that a lot of rural society has responded to the exchange of this material. But it is clear that the project is on the table of a number of parties, communities, sports associates, and schools, so it is important to consider the role of the Lawgiver in this regard. These materials are designed to be administered. So I want to direct the following questions to the highest level. resource and environment minister: 1st How are you planning to go to the top? Minister will respond to this discussion about the use of tyre rubber barrels in playgrounds and stadiums? 2. What are the rules regarding the use of these substances? 3. What is the EEA's surveillance on the use of its materials? 4. Will the Minister direct it to the EEA to review these rules? 5. Will the Minister direct it to the EEA to issue a recommendation such as Norway and Sweden have already made? [[The president calls.]] 6th Will a minister go all the way to the point of banning the use of the material?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u56	A respectable president. I thank the manager for these huge questions about tyre rubber bars in playgrounds and stadiums, and I intend to handle each particular question and answer it. The first question was: How will Ministers respond to the discussion that has been asked for the use of tyres in playing and sports fields? The Ministry appointed the EEA to examine these matters, but to this point it was found that several researchs had been made on the use of bridal rubber pads on artificial grass fields in our neighboring countries. Research revealed, among other things, that hazardous materials could penetrate the environment in a measure of drinking water from the roads under the worst possible circumstances. These effects could be prevented by appropriate pollutants as well as an adequate drainage system. Also there are health risk factors, including the risk of infection, poor air quality, and important accidents. Therefore, the minister will follow up on this matter with the Agency and the National Health Committee. The second question was: What rules are there about the use of such substances as rubber dust in sports fields and their impact on human health and environment? There is a so-called REACH rule, no. 888/2015, on registration, food, permission, and limitations in terms of material and were set up here on land in 2008. There are restrictions on the manufacture, marketing and use of certain hazardous substances, chemical mixtures and parts and the use of tyres in the sports field, in line with the limitations specified in the Annex. The third question: How is the EEA's surveillance mediated by the use of chemicals such as rubber barrels in playgrounds and sports fields? The EEA oversees the implementation of chemical No. 61/2013 and monitors those includes informing the public about the risks of chemical and chemical risks when it is necessary to protect health or environment and to monitor the marketing of materials, to implement a surveillance programme and to inform national health authorities about the factors involved in the law. The EEA has called for information from relevant importers on the chemical content of tyres used here in the country. However, it should be remembered that the rubber plate is imported and not forbidden. As early as January, the Agency will have a chemical analysis project on the rubber cane and will work with Iceland's Knatt's link to an older rubber jar. The role of the health - care committees under chemical laws includes informing the public of the risks associated with the use of this product when it is necessary to protect health and environment and to monitor treatment, use and label of materials in the activities of the Marketing Authorisation that are subject to the work permit published by the Committee on the grounds of commitment and pollution control and inform the EEA on the results of this surveillance. The fourth question: Will the Minister direct it to the EEA to review the rules on the use of media in playgrounds and sports fields? The matter was specifically addressed at a meeting of the health monitoring of rural society, the EEA, the Food Agency and the European Union with the Ministry of Environment and Marine and Agriculture in October 2011. The management of air quality, disinfection, and cleaning of rubber jars was then reviewed when using a physical satellite in play and sports areas. As I told you before, the EEA is about to launch a chemical analysis project on an older rubber jar and will be working with Iceland's Knatts Savvy Association. The Agency will then review the need to set specific rules for the use of materials in playgrounds and sports fields. Or it may be noted that the health - care committees of rural society have made further demands on exposure to artificial grass areas aimed at increasing the safety and loyalty of practicers, coaches, and viewers. The fifth question: Will the Minister direct it to the EEA to issue proposals to use the dangers of playing and playing fields? The Ministry has already discussed these matters with the EEA and has participated in discussions with local health care professionals. In the case of research, the EEA will examine and provide general recommendations that the maintenance of artificial heat selection with a rubber scale of used tires will always be sought to use safe materials. A general recommendation may also be made to encourage the installation of new artificial grass fields to be tried not to use a recycled car bag. If this is done, it is important to seek cooperation with Iceland's Iceland's Athletic Association and Iceland's Knats National Association for this recommendation. [[The president calls.]] The sixth question: Will a minister allow the use of tyre rubber barrels in playing and playing fields completely forbidden? The answer is, important is... now the president calls and I will answer my last question in my second speech. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u57	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson for this inquiry and the highest. Minister for good answers. As indicated in the reply of a minister, the import of a rubber jar from an old car pump is not prohibited. A project may need to be accessed to what it is like to import a rubber barrel from used cars, what it is generally used for, and why it is banned or prevented if it is used because people are on the process or may be affected. I think it's necessary for these subjects to study the matter carefully and wait for research. Everyone knows that despite what they look like, artificial grass fields are beds of infection because they use dead materials and everything sits still. There are more than just rubber bars to be examined when it comes to artificial grass fields and the beds of infection that I at least, a respectable president, believe they are.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u58	A respectable president. I thank you for this perfunctory discussion, and because I know and understand the need. That's the one who knows I don't know anything about football fields, either fake grass fields or anyone else's. But from news reports it is at least for players in the highest degree serious if they are using dangerous material in sports stadiums, whether for children or for adults, but especially for children. However, I wondered, and I now just refer back to what I said about my knowledge of the matter in general, whether it could be that there is some kind of recycling inheritance here to be seen. Is a recycled tire being used in sports stadiums without being guided by environmental considerations, without being concerned about the side effects that may be at hand? Of course, if I'm right about being recycled and reused, it's very important to watch all the factors involved in the environment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u59	Mr. President. Icelandic weather conditions make it possible that athletes are on some scale switching grass from artificial grass to play football over wintertime. For one thing, the country's youth is practicing soccer on a fake grass. I would like to agree that these nests are sadly a bed of infection, and I find it extremely important that we do all we can to keep young people from practicing sports, which, of course, is not practicing sports in an unwholesome environment. So I look forward to the ultimate answer. Minister on the final question. But I sure hope that we will just take for using rubber jars, especially used car clothes, but probably all rubber jars should be forbidden.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u60	V.E.G. President. I especially thank you for the inputs and answers from the highest level. Minister and entry of othermen's orders. Congress members feel that it is very important to draw out the purpose of taking this matter before and follow the band's efforts to replace these toxic compounds. At the same time, the debate stated that the fields are certainly beds of infection. The chemicals return to homes with clothes and shoes and washing machines, they run into the neighborhood of these choices with unpredictable results, so it is necessary for us to deal with this matter. Both Sweden and Norway went by way of a government direct recommendations to the designer and build this field not to use recycled tyre rubber. You're absolutely right. paritaprevir Andersen found out that the original purpose was to do recycling, and so simply to achieve savings, it was cheaper. Of course, it is in our rural communities that using dangerous rubber requires more than that. I want to point them out. Councilmen who want to study this subject more fully on a cover that has been very popular with all the media coverage and all the research and response of our neighboring countries in this regard. Finally, I want to say that I believe in the highest. Environment Minister will take the initiative to complete this case with the EEA and would like to direct it to all concerned persons to replace these materials.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-43.u61	A respectable president. Before attending the discussion, I would like to try to review the last question that was about whether it would be permanently forbidden. It is important that materials used meet the requirements. Manufacturers and immigrants on artificial grass fields and products for artificial grass are responsible and can show that products they post meet requirements that do not harm human health or environment. It is proper to note that the currently marketed rubber barrel is considered safer than what was in the market a few years ago. Also, it is not possible to say that plastic balls that are increasingly used are much better than the long - term rubber plate from the environmental point of view. As we have discussed, I will follow this issue closely, both to the Environment Agency and to the National Health Committee, where health risk factors seem to be very related to the field of artificial grass, not just to the urchin. As I say, it's true that it's so harmful, it's natural to forbid the import. We are not moving in with the country products that are indeed considered hazardous to human health.
