ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u1	Hv. All council members. Before the program is scheduled, I'd like to report that yesterday, September 13, was 100 years away from the appointment of the General Assembly, which marked a turning point in the activities of the General Assembly. It was the first assembly of members of the General Assembly made independent, which had been won by the Danish Council and later by the Icelandic Council of Government. The 1915 Civilization Act is among the most outstanding changes in the General Assembly, which included important improvements in the way the council operates. For example, they were legally adopted as a permanent committee system at the General Assembly, but until then it was customary to appoint committees on every subject. The Council of Congress was conducted by the prehuman Guðmundur Björnson's son. Guðmundur began to study the assembly of other nations and to make the matter known to the Senate committee. Until then, the General Assembly of Parliament had taken into account the general dance party, but more council members were being looked after and kept in place during the Reformation changes. Much of the work done by the new council rested on Guðmundur's shoulders, so he has been called their author. In recognition of his contributions, Guðmundur was elected president of the upper branch of 1916, and in that office, he consulted extensively on the implementation of the new council. Guðmundur was re-elected as president of the department to 1922 when he gave in to Congress. At that time, he had been at the Council for 18 years. In the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the 1915 Parliamentary Act, a film of Guðmundur Björnson has been placed in the upper room. In this way a prime committee wants to honor the memory of Guðmundur and his contribution to modern activity at the General Assembly. The painting belongs to the Land Hospital, but the hospital has kindly lent it for a while to the General Assembly. Guðmundur was a surgeon for 25 years at the same time. The breakthrough in 1915 is worth referring to here at the Council, as well as to the great senator, Guðmundur Björnson's son.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u2	The following mail has been dated 14pt. 2015: ▪ Forseti IIis, Einar K. Guðfinnsson of God. With this letter, I resign as vice president of the Generals 6th, requesting that a new vice president be elected in my place. Sincerely, Óttarr Proppé, 11th. Reykjavík Precinct District, south,◯ The President's election 6th will be scheduled for tomorrow's meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u3	Borist has a letter from what? 6th. Smoke. Ólafsdóttir that she can't do any congregational work in the near future. Today, therefore, at the General Assembly 1, a deputy of the Career's Eve list, Heiða Kristín Helgadóttir. Heiða Kristín Helgadóttir, who has previously taken up residence at the General Assembly, is welcome back to work. Borist has a letter from the 11th. Smoke. So, Óttar of Proppér, that he will not be able to do any congregational work in the near future. Today, then, at Council 1, a deputy of the Career's Eve list, Brynhildur Björn Björnsdóttir. Once seated at the General Assembly, Brynhildur is welcome to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u4	To answer, Prime Minister, Economic and Economic Ministers, Health Ministers, Social and Housing Ministers and Foreign Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u5	A respectable president. Of course, when the magazine is on a financial bill, questions arise. It is a joy that we have done so well, as it did in a reversal of government affairs, but then much in what way that space is new. Looking at the development of growth reforms and child - reforms, we find a very disturbing picture. The average pay of a full - time person last year was 555. K. per month. The average wage has increased over the past year. At this time, the average income of each couple goes to 590 levels. K. If both husband and wife have medium income, they will not be compensated for growth. The child development is even worse. There is expected to be a similar increase between years and the budget in general, up to 3%, but there is no rise in the limit. Child damages start at 200 yards. K. per month. Even when making small donations for children, people don't have to have a minimum wage. A married couple with one child loses compensation at 409 you. K. in monthly, each. So I must ask the highest. Secretary of finance: Why have these boundaries not been made hard to clear and meet people there? These support systems were developed to support the raising of people and to support the child - rearing process. It was never intended that only all the poorest Icelanders could receive public assistance in this regard. [[The president calls.]] Why has this opportunity not been used to clear the limit?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u6	Mr. President. I feel as if this question is asked: "When everyone is doing better and earnings goes up and buys out, gets better and goes into debt, why don't we raise the benefits as well? We don't make any system changes in the growth system. We have the same rights between years and years, but the government's expenses for growth are down because people's places are getting better. When you watch housing support, you cannot focus on the compensation. Today, we give half a billion tax rate each month to those taking out special savings and arrangements on mortgages, half a billion a month. There are another 6 billion each year in housing support. That is, except for the 20 billion in the budget, who go to close the debt. As for child support, we are raising the total budget by 3% from year to year, and we have been somewhat stable with 10 billion in child support. The last changes we made in the rights of the children's relief system were to take right from those in the best position and move to those with the lowest salary. It was the last changes in this government, to use what we're going to put in child reform to a greater extent to those who are in the lower degree of pay. I have to explain to myself that I never feel that it is a personal goal, such as in the growing system, that there are always 10 billion people in the world. The important thing must be to examine your rights, and if a person's position improves, it is only natural that things may be less difficult to cope with relief efforts. In this example, the average wage for a person is greatly reduced. I don't think it's very unnatural.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u7	A respectable president. What's unnatural is that people with 200 rocks. K. in monthly pay is considered to have a lot of money to make that child - welfare improvement. What is unnatural is that people in the average population who took a mortgage in 2009 and who assumed that they would continue to receive interest benefits now have fallen out of that system, not because of it, as the highest. According to a minister, it is going so much better than it is because the limit has not been moved since 2011. We compete with neighboring countries about our people. It offers help from the public in the form of child support, and people in it also have much lower growth rates. It has simply been an agreement here so that, on the part of the government, by growth reforms, the cost of a higher interest level in Iceland than in neighboring countries. [[The president calls.]] It's interesting to hear from the highest. Secretary of finance that it is the controlled policy of the government to leave average carers behind and stop supporting them in the building or in training of children. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u8	Mr. President. I just realized how we used our child - welfare system better down to the lower end of the pay grade, that was the changes we made last time. But I agree with what. A senator when it comes to reaching the limit of decline, but we've improved it during this time of election. We've reduced the declines at the bottom. Still, we are using about 10 billion in the child - welfare system. In terms of interest and housing support, I must reiterate what I once said: there will not be other measures taken by the government. If we look at them as financial resources in 2009, they will also benefit from the arrangement we have had in our special possession system. For growth in Iceland, we need to find ways to get them down. Perhaps our next major challenge in the economy is to find a better partnership with the workforce in order to build better, more stability, and thus lower growth and inflation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u9	Mr. President. This caught my attention in April when the advance party held that there was a clear conclusion that the State's share should not be sold at the Bank of the Lands Bank and the Lands Bank should be employed as a community bank. The discussion that she has been here in the country has more important than the fact that the state should share some part in the banks than the banks would still work the same way they have worked. I found this interesting, and I have officially declared a great interest in discussing these matters at the council, i.e. The bank owned by government law is generally seen in banking. Of course, such activities are well - known, and I would like to remind you that the Northern Council's Environmental Prize, a few years ago, ran into such a community bank. That is why I was quite surprised to see in a budget bill assuming that an item in the Lands Bank would be sold, i.e. not to see the location of this approval party council of the advance party. I'd like to ask the highest. The prime minister and the head of the party whether the advance party will be united in the plan to sell this item at the Lands Bank, for we might lose a certain opportunity to change the bank of the country and take it to a community level that is getting more attention in the community. Since then, there has been an officer of the highest rank. Prime Minister, w. The head of the Economic and Business Committee, pointed out that the interest the bank is giving the country now in view of the same activities is significant, so there's something I feel is lacking in. In view of the initiative taking place in this discussion, I would have chosen to have such a discussion at the council before making such a decision. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister on his stand on the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u10	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for an interesting question. I and others were not completely satisfied with the way the banks were taken in their time. I'm not going to spend long hours tracking it here but primarily to remind that the banks were taken over, or the Lands Bank, in fact, for loans. It was borrowed to take over this bank. It's a matter of budgeting. A senator is not newly identified. It's been under budget for a minimum of five or six years, i.e. from early in the terms of the last government there. A senator was a minister. This is not to be understood as saying that this law is putting something new into the budgets that have been opposed by the last government or by other members of the council. However, regarding the ideas that the bank is using in a certain way, and the question as to whether it is appropriate to perform the source that has been in the budget for years has been the highest. In contrast, the secretary of finance makes it very clear that he is not inclined to sell all the shares of the State at the bank, while he feels that it is desirable for the State to continue to share a share in the anticipated future. Assessments of when and how to sell items in accordance with legal sources are so taken into account by the circumstances. I've criticized it for a few times, and in various ways, I haven't felt that the Land Bank was doing its job just as if I would like to see him do it as a bank owned by the public. I can mention things like plans for a new headquarters. I can also mention that although the Lands Bank had been more responsible for improving the customer's service and doing so on better terms, I think that it might be an attempt to make him a sponsor for the savings. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u11	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The answer is made by the prime minister. I, however, do understand any distinction between him and the highest. The minister of finance who spoke this way last week in discussions about the budget bill that the ideas of the state's bank were out - of - date, which made me somewhat surprised, considering that these are new ideas from his government team of cooperation. But okay. I know this warrant has been inside the budget. As I came to see in my case, it has been in general debate that it was normal for the state to have a share in the bank, which is why I've wanted to listen to the ideas of the Future Party and thought it was normal for us to take over the discussion. Is this to be understood as if the Agency is supporting them to sell this object - for it is certainly noted in this financial bill that 30% of the items will be sold next year, directly as a result of a reduction in the government's income payment according to a budget - but will take place through the remaining holdings of the state, because it is also important that we take that decision-making discussion during the council? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u12	A respectable president. As in the past few years, since this authority has been in financial charge, it must be determined each time if circumstances arise in order to regain some of the financial resources set up by the State in this bank in its own time as an emergency. But I agree with that with what. A senator who has good reason to keep up the discussion and wonder if this bank and, of course, any more banks can't better care for the services of the Icelandic public. Of course, there are a lot of problems in Icelandic financial systems, which include excessive growth. I reiterate other factors I mentioned earlier: We would like to see that banks such as the Lands Bank were responsible for improving services, reducing the rate of services, and preferably reducing them, and even becoming sponsors of the savings system. These are certainly things that, like cot. A senator would be interesting to discuss here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u13	President. In response to my inquiry, which was published June 10th, a question I addressed to the highest degree. A prime minister on handling matters with the Commission's decision on information matters showed that the average pay period for the Committee is 200 days. Sources tell me that even 12 months will take the pay period. This is an unacceptable waiting period for information. Those in need of a decision - making committee are by far the most frequent reporters involved in informing the public about government activities and practices. It is obvious that if it takes up to 12 months to get information through the process, the original news story that has long since become cold and has ceased to be necessary in society. In answer to the inquiry, it is also stated that the office is working on shortening the appointment schedule for the committee. I can't see from the budget bill that there is more money to the Commission on Information. How's the top? The prime minister realizes that this work will be improved without additional funding? Does it not feel that the minister's respect for the cultural element is more concerned with legalizing public information and the need for political support than with strengthening the revision of ancient history?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u14	A respectable president. It is important to consider that in very rare cases, at least Relatively, the decision-to-treat committee will be made on information issues. Usually, things are quite explained, and governments, including the Ministry, try to answer queries as soon as possible. There are, however, rare cases that present opinions that may then be complex and that may take some time to evaluate, but I agree with it. A senator, it would be most desirable to shorten that time as possible. In fact, I think it should be possible to do so without a significant increase in budget, but there is something to look at when men seek to shorten this time, i.e. See if there's any need to be added to this budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u15	President. Although I have a good desire to do so, I have no reason to understand or get anything out of this answer. It's clear that this is not meant to be put in or to come to the highest level. A minister with no suggestions on how to fix this, although it says in answer to me on June 10 that there is a right to work on this. It is unacceptable that the average pay period for the decision - making committee is 200 days. Whether there are many, but especially if there are few i can't understand why it takes so long. If it's not for lack of money, I'd like to ask for clear information about why a minister thinks it will take so long. When people say things are too complicated, they are always simply because they don't know what they're talking about. I sure hope that's not true in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u16	A respectable president. As mentioned in that answer as a matter of reason. A candidate refers to the website of the Committee where information can be provided on each subject and on its progress. However, as shown in my reply, I reiterate what I said earlier, the purpose of this committee is to shorten the time of pay. If these work in some way in finance, of course, it is one thing that will be considered to cope with this extended treatment period.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u17	A respectable president. Parents of chronically ill children, some of whom are disabled... The cause of illness is inconsistencies with the reality of many of these families, almost to 13 years of age. Clearly, children may be 18 years old and not all children can be without assistance from 13 to 18 years of age. Parental pay is available only for those who give up their work and study entirely. Even when the need is at times greater, parents may not be able to care for a long - suffering child at once. The assistance offered is almost exclusively away from home, so it is not useful in the case of an illness. The type of service that can only be useful in such situations is the user - controlled personal assistance, which is limited to projects that children have received, to some extent, home care that is very limited, and is primarily in short consideration. When children live in hospitals, there is a rich requirement for parental presence and responsibility. All other services do not offer assistance or presence at home in case of an illness. This is a systematic problem that has not been doing with the children and is never their fault. Research and experience show that this systematic problem contributes to the loss of parents, economic hardships, and poverty, unusual pressures, fatigue, and even the ill health of family members, the conscience of a chronic child, and the experience of being a burden in their immediate family. The United Nations Children's Covenant and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Disappointments for the Rights of Distant and Long - Suffering Children and to give their families the best support. So I want to ask the highest. The social and housing minister for the future vision in these matters, also whether or not to influence the increased rights of parents of long - suffering children, to reduce the effectiveness of parental rent and to contribute to the services of the child's rights to grow up in their families and live independent lives.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u18	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Freyja Haraldsdóttir's daughter for the inquiry. It's perfectly clear. It's like a snooze. One member said that it is long time to revise the environment of children who are chronically ill, disabled children, and the support parents receive to care for them. That was why I appointed a special team for a global reexamination of the Social Security Act. That group has been meeting very regularly, and I hope to get their winter suggestions on how best to make that change. In particular, I remembered that these were representatives who had the experience of having chronically ill children themselves would be parents of long - suffering children. Then I know that there is a great deal of effort in returning my suggestions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u19	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Social and housing minister for the answers. I am glad that this team is about to leave, and I would like to encourage him to work together with the families of long - suffering children and with long - suffering ones. I know it's a family policy, and I'd like to encourage her to become part of it, that it's not some private family in which there are disabled or long - suffering children. I think it's very important that, as I mentioned, I just want to reiterate it, that the goal is always to protect the right children from being able to grow up with their parents, siblings in their neighborhoods, near places, with friends, so that they can enjoy their own lives and thus have as much an active share in society as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u20	A respectable president. I agree with the senator's encouragement. This has also been about work that has been going on with child protection. There was a pivotal report on children with many challenges, looking for children to be disabled but not for child protection. We often date parents, whom we might call superparents. The results of the committee I introduced to the government had to emphasize that these children are disabled, that they have the right to obtain services in their surroundings, and that they are seen to enter a support environment that is oriented to disabled people, but that this is not primarily viewed as child protection. I present this encouragement to the committee, and I can agree that I truly hope that I will soon receive practical suggestions in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u21	Mr. President. We in the United States have been severely critical. The government, under the lead of candidates, made the decision to keep pension money under the minimum wage in the country. There is about 1% of earners on the minimum level, but most of them have the potential to work up according to the pay grade. The possibility, however, is that those who do not have a pensioner and a pensioner do not have it. A newly formed bargaining agreement laid the groundwork for 300 grand. K. If money is needed for a decent living, it is the amount needed to earn it. The same would be true of the desperate, the elderly, and those who rely on the pension of social security in order to support themselves financially. I thought the candidates would agree. On August 30th. I heard the most. Social and housing minister reports in the wave explosion that the candidates had agreed on in their place that the benefits of social security should not be lower than minimum wage. The budget bill has now been submitted, the highest sector of policy. Governments, and it suggests that pensioners cannot get what they want as much as those in the lowest remunerations. So I want to ask the highest. Social and housing minister whether the candidates will support the network bill that will be discussed here at this point, on the change in social security law, and on the increase in pension to 300 you. K. Has this matter of righteousness changed the minds of those who promote it? Has the highest. The social and housing minister changed her mind from her speaking on the subject of August 30th. and is single at the highest. Governments to keep micro-creatures and pensioners under the minimum wage in the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u22	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. The will of the convention of candidates was very clear, during the contract period covered by the current collective agreements, benefits will be paid to the minimum, and after the end of the period there will be 300 of you. K. In case of a moment. The senator would study the calculations available regarding the change in the class of improvements, at least Based on the information I've been following, from year to year they've increased base numbers in the improvement system. We can see there a 9.4% rise in reform groups, 11 billion coming in new into your social security. Of course, we have emphasized the importance of protecting our social security system. This is not a financial requirement for social security at present or at this time of the year, so this is in full harmony with the emphasis that has been given to progressives and independences.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u23	Mr. President. I've studied well the figures behind the calculations in the budget bill. This is not expected to increase the improvement in social security from May 1 in 2015 but to be generally improved in the country and made available on January 1, 2016. They are not accompanied by an increase in the lowest rate negotiated. It may be that it is the government's plan that the increase will be 300 Yous. K. The year 2018, or 2017, does not reveal this. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers, whether it is somewhat cynical that when the government's right comes from the cow, it is not a priority to allow the benefits of a pensioner and a pensioner with minimal benefits. In fact, during the last term, during a campaign against the bankruptcy of state funds, the lowest improvements were never impaired, they were greatly promoted to the proposal of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir in 2008 that accompanied the population through the collapse. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u24	A respectable president. We're gonna go for a second. A senator agrees on the importance of improving the quality of a pensioner. This is made clear in the budget; this is made clear in the changes that will take place between the year and year. There we will follow up on how to improve in terms of social security. The changes in the labour market are calculated and compensation will be higher than the minimum wage once this number has been entered. Then I also reiterate that this government has certainly protected the social security system. One of the first things she did after she began to take over was to take back the limitations of the previous government during the last term and have benefited many pensioners. On the other hand, I think we can all agree on that, we can. A senator and other senators, that we shall then continue to do more.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u25	A respectable president. I'm very welcome to report to the social and housing minister for the position of women in the labour market, and I'd like to commend the movers for the initiative. In recent years, however, women in a more powerful form of peripherality have made noises and have demanded that they have voices and space in the gender equal struggle. For example, it is gay women, women of foreign background, and disabled women. Should we, as these groups, share in the common existence of multiple discriminations, which have evidence that there can be a multiple effect when it comes to discrimination, e.g. in the labour market. I missed the fact that the requested request did not make strong the intertwining difference, but it is important for the government to know how a variety of discrimination affects the position of women in the labour market. Surely, all of us would agree on the need to make such an extensive report that no women will be forgotten. I still pay this request my vote, because it is important, but in the hope that these comments will be considered in the treatment of the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u26	A respectable president. In recent years, Icelandic filmmaking has been amazingly successful and has been an adventure. This did not happen automatically, it happened because there are many ways in which we benefit from the competitive environment for filmmaking. One of the things I think we can do better is what is involved in linking with tourism. If I remember correctly, each tenth tourist comes here because he knows of the country through Icelandic movies. But we can do even better, and I hope that when this report arrives, it will shed light on it and help us to take advantage of the opportunities further.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u27	A respectable president. Mixed martial arts are one of the sports programs that we Icelanders have achieved. As everyone knows, we have outstanding men there. We are in the peculiar position, however, where a person can compete in most parts of the world - except in Iceland. I think it's very important that we review how best to manage the environment so that the people who are interested in them can make it the best and the safest. That is why this request is available, and it has to be said for the moment that we have a special reason to see people here who are able to compete in their article in many places and not in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u28	A respectable president. I recommend to the members of the United States Congress our bill, a bill to correct the change in social security law, assuming that the pensions of the pensions of the pensioner and the disability pensioner will rise in stages over the next three years, in line with rising according to collective agreements in the spring. Like a World Congress and an international nation known to have reached the general labour agreements of last spring, which included a significant increase in minimum wage. Special reason was laid upon it, in the labour agreements of the European Union and the Business Society, to increase the lowest wage in order to remember at the end of the contract period, except for 300 of you. K. As the Senate knows, social security laws include an algorithm for improving social security annually, either in terms of prices or remuneration. The current financial bill on the part of the government is expected to increase by the next year, in line with the expectations of future development in the current year. This increase takes into account general rates, not the increases specifically determined in collective agreements for minimum salary. So there will be a situation where the improvement in social security will predictablely decline from the lowest wage in the next few years. Therefore, in this bill, we suggest that there will be a temporary introduction to the legislation, which includes improving the quality of social security in accordance with the terms of the collective agreements since spring and that the temporary rule will apply to the current legislation on the current remuneration or remunerations for PUBs. On logic, it refers to the fact that about 10,685 pensioners do not meet minimum pension criteria and therefore receive special compensation. Of these, there are approximately 4,200 pensioners, 5,550 disability pensioners, and 955 rehabary pensioners. This group is living in a crisis situation, but studies have revealed that 4% had delayed the purchase of drugs - i.e. in a survey of older citizens in 2012 - in the last five years, 7% reported that they had delayed a medical visit, and 14% have frequent financial concerns. The system in which we have developed in the current law is designed to ensure that the fallout development of a pensioner is in accordance with general financial development in the country or in financial development, but when special agreements are made which have the aim to raise the lowest wage, there are examples that the State makes such increases particularly exceed those that result from law to 69.g. Act on social security. In particular, I refer to the year 2011 of decision-making, following a collective agreement made at that time, to a specific increase in the lowest wage rate, to raise especially the minimum social benefits. Then an independent decision was made to add money to social security to make it possible for pensioners to enjoy the same rights that others on the minimum wage would have enjoyed. It is also important to recall that with campaigns in 2007 and 2008, social security benefits were greatly improved, bringing minimum benefits. Before that, there had been a big difference. These hatchlings continued to use pensioners, for in spite of the tremendous difficulty in the state of government and a high requirement, the basic social security benefits, the lowest benefits, were never reduced by a single dollar. On the contrary, as I traced this point in 2011, additional donations were specifically added to ensure that minimum social security benefits could follow the minimum. For this bill, there is an obvious moral argument. If the workforce has become the result of the workforce and a statement in the community that a special effort is needed to increase the minimum wage, because it is unmanly, there is obviously no evidence that pensioners, who cannot work and increase their income because of age or disability, are less suitable, but society generally agrees that there is a minimum worth - decent dresser. On the contrary, in civilized society it is fundamental to ensure those who cannot earn the same potential for survival as those who are at the lowest wage. It should be noted that the number of pension workers involved here is certainly considerable, but the situation so that pensioners do not have the circumstances to improve their income or earn professional experience or knowledge that usually leads to higher pay. Therefore, they have no choice of improving their survival through secular work or study because they, due to age or disability, do not have the ability to work. Some have been discussed, and among other things, by the highest degree. Secretary of finance the other day in the discussion of the budget bill, that this bill showed some of the Union's errors in terms of community reform and the impulse to work hard. They must be based on some major misunderstanding. Secretary of the budget, but I think it's right to go with him here anyway. Of course, it is not that older ones are generally able to earn income beyond social insurance benefits and as each person has a right to a pension fund. It is simply because we live in a rather inflexible work market in terms of upper ages, especially in the public, and opportunities to work part - time, for the elderly are not very much. Many matters have been discussed, written and done on the scene of the government in an effort to pay for flexible retirements and to increase the possibility of working longer than anyone would agree that these conditions are not in the world today that there is generally a possibility for them to be expected. In terms of micro-energy pensioners, it is certainly so important that the changes that have often been discussed in the microenergy evaluations, where people are more alert to what they can do than they cannot, that the improvement system would generally be reinvented with the goal that people would not experience as severe a loss as they are now if they could get a job that is appropriate and thus new to the level of work available. However, today's society's problem is that the work market is immensely inflexible and lacks understanding that people can have different working abilities, part - time jobs are rare, and generally given that everyone can win 100% and still win better. If they want to increase the potential for micro-energy transplant workers to do their jobs to the extent possible, the first matter would be that the state and employers on the general market are united to offer part-time jobs where people with reduced skills will actually be able to do their jobs and then that there will be urgent changes in the pension system so that people are not losing nearly 80 dollars of each tax or tax. Of course, a donor who works part-time with the skills needed to pay a full tax of each paid cent, but in addition to putting up with the decrease in pension of less than 40%. For a donor - if part - time work could be done - the benefits are small, and none of them are because the biggest part of income goes to taxes or impairment. So I don't think there's any need to paint the devil on the wall on the side of the board in this case. This is a modest application of a legal case, in accordance with the terms of collective agreements. This is not to say that it involves some sort of healing that will have some negative social impact. On the contrary, the bill is fully agreed with the policies that have been bless by 2007, that minimum wage is in a position similar to the social security minimum, and in this way ensures a man - made extension for pensioners who have no other reason to build the fundamental security network of minimally improved social security. A respectable president. I'm not gonna have any more of those words. I encourage the matter to be well established by a Senate committee, a rapid progress. I find great interest in the older citizens' stakeholders and disability in the outworking of this and deep understanding that this is an important matter of justice, a moral test stone, whether we think they're as relevant to society as anyone else. It is simply not a moral defender to allow another value for pensioners, who have not chosen their lot and have no other basis for earning money than the social security reform system, but for people in a general labour market. I encourage the board of directors to think further and deeper about this matter. There is a rich basis for this change to become a reality. I hope that the bill will come as a vote that the first thing that matters is that a pensioner already enjoys a cutback in line with the general labour market. It is already an increase from May 1 this year, which has not been in the same way in pensioners.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u29	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for history. An interesting point was made there. Like what? A senator knows the priority of this government to add to this category of legal matters, along with health matters. We see a marked increase there. I hope that's a mutual agreement. But I wanted to ask a little about this suggestion here, first of all, whether the cost of it was unappreciated. Based on the information I have, the cost of this change is about 30 to 40 billion if it is approved. To date, the insurance fee has been used to finance this aspect of the matter. At the very least, it is the goal, and it would be good to hear the catch. A senator how this would be financed, if it were the idea of raising the insurance bill that I believe should be reduced for obvious reasons. I wanted to ask you why. A senator of this and uses the opportunity to agree with his words when he speaks of an inflexible labor market as well as about the lack of understanding of people who are older in their mid - life. It is an incomprehensible attitude toward those who have much to offer. A lot of people I know want to work but for some unincomprehensible reason, they find it difficult to find jobs, even though conditions in the economy are as we know. The question is, What's the cost of this, isn't it 30 to 40 billion? And how would this affect the insurance bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u30	A respectable president. I think that's what we're talking about. When a senator speaks of the total cost of more than 30 to 40 billion, he does so in a close manner. It is interesting, however, that the government has not had enough money to calculate it, as noted in the answers last week on the side of the highest scale. The minister of society and housing, who now amazed me, how much this justice would cost. It is difficult to get accurate numbers because the U.S.A. will have to drive this through and that's why the government needs to ask that it be done. It is important to remember in this context that this is not the case with non-impliatory expenses because it is predictable based on current growths based on collective agreements over the next year and the next year that social security benefits will also increase something in those years. They won't raise as much as they will. That's why I doubt the cost, the difference, the running at tens of billions. However, it is very important to remember in this context that this is a suggestion for a special arrangement because of special circumstances and due to the making of special low-pay agreements. As in 2011, it is not expected to be financed by the total insurance budget but to come as a special contribution from a government fund. We now have the rest of the budget of 15 billion, he'd probably do it all three years, I'd say, based on the criteria that can be provided for general pay development for the next few years. It is not as if the budget is not available and there is no need to raise insurance money in order to obtain a special provision of this kind, no more than 2011 when government funds were given to meet low-pay agreements. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u31	A respectable president. I have to admit that I'm a little surprised that this has not been costed better by the candidates, but we have that number, the sound of the question. A senator believes the cost is at hand, i.e. Thirty-four hundred and forty-four billion. It's just the same thing, the insurance bill is just one type of these taxes. There are no taxes or charges from heaven. The wealth of money determines all of it. To finance this, we need additional tax returns. We don't receive any heavenly gifts, we don't have taxes on people or businesses, and sometimes both. However, this worries me, for I was hoping to, out of the matter of all languages, that they would rather have more rest in the treasure of the kingdom than to zero out, as one could understand the words of a man. Senator. He spoke of the 15 billion who would certainly remember them. That would mean that there was no leftover on the state fund. If that's how it is. Senators in the government position that we are not to have any leftovers in the state's funds, it's just as hard as the thinking that exists in the countries we compare with, and I'll specifically refer them to the northern countries that we might most closely observe. They want to have some money left over. We are in this year's position to find too much interest in Kingdom funds that there is more than any donations available to the Hospital and all contributions made to the health insurance combined. When we have such high interest costs, we in an organized way reduce the standard of living for our children and our grandchildren. It concerns me not only how little this cost but also how little this funding has been thought of. Most of all, I am concerned that there is no agreement to have left over the government budget. [[The president calls.]] I would've wanted to see him more.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u32	A respectable president. Hv. I would like to remind a conquistador that the government put in motion ideas about further revenues along with a budget bill last year, of which 40,650 billion were produced by the government. We would like to see the remainder of more money, and it would, of course, be possible only by the basic means of letting the sector of unprecedented prosperity now, such as seabed and tourism, pay fair fees in public funds for the use of common resources. This is not to say that we are taking money from other important social projects to do this. It's so that there's a lot of underball involved in what's normal, charging the most profitable jobs in the country for access to common resources today. It is wrong to turn matters this way and suggest that the food is being eliminated from starving children or any other person who is in desperate need. On the contrary, there is an additional vector for income to ensure the rest of the money. In terms of cost analysis, we agree. A senator, of course, would need senators to be able to call for the cost of this analysis. However, it shows the indifference of the government that almost six months after these low-pay agreements are made, the national social security minister has not yet calculated how much it would cost to let the minimum taxon of social security pay follow these contracts. Of course, it's not to me to accuse myself of this total failure of the government and lack of interest in letting the benefits go with the minimum wage. We can't control calling for an analysis from an insurance agency, that's under the authority of the government, but I'm taking it as a great shame. A senator to the government for lack of interest and in doing nothing and apathy toward that important justice. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u33	A respectable president. I welcome this discussion and the bill in general and thank you. paritaprevir Páll's aged Árnason for reviewing it. I believe that it is important that pensions for both elderly people and those called invalids, often disabled people, long - suffering people, or both people, are not under the minimum, and they are also in accordance with consumption criteria. We know, research shows us, not only in this country but also in this country, that there is great poverty in this group. The discussion often becomes necessary, that there is some physical laws that this group is somehow ill in society, but it is not that way, it is a systematic problem, it is a problem we have created. This group is in a position not to have the same opportunities, not to have the same rights as other citizens, and is therefore in this position. The poverty is great, as I said, and the things that are added often and often are an increase in the cost of having a degree of impairment. The system is also complex, so finding ways and actually getting what you have a right to do with it can be very costly. Living in poverty often calls for health problems, so the disability that exists or the chronic illness can be increased by having to be in this situation or by standing in the constant struggle that results from being peripheral in this way. This is also accompanied by social excommunication and elimination, preventing participation in society. It cannot really be that some senator, regardless of his class, feels that it is not serious and that it is some nature of nature, that is not the case. I also feel that it is important to point out that this is not a personal group. This group has families, mates, children, siblings, and parents. In fact, I think if we were to look at this, we would all be very much involved personally. I especially welcome this discussion because of the recent community discussion, the debate based on prejudice, and the idea that the group with disability or pension is some sort of blood spill on the system, even cheating on it, and trying to get something out of the stuff he is not supposed to get. It's not just wrong. It's a very dangerous discussion. This is especially dangerous when we today have a lot of responsibility, and we set a good example for us to follow. We should know better when we have tests that show us otherwise. At such discussions, I also find it important that we identify groups of people we are speaking about. For example, when talking about microenergy pensioners, cheating is often referred to and so forth, but when the matter is considered, it may not be the groups that are particularly involved. It is important that we distinguish between what groups we are talking about. I also think it's important that we're not creating a system around a few cheats. What is it? By doing this, we're making a lot of trouble, 97% of honest people, who just want the help we need. It takes a lot of money to make trouble, and we're really good at it here in the country, really good at making some really expensive shit. I've been very thinking about this matter, especially since I stayed in Britain as an exchange student during the past few months, where these matters have been widely addressed in a political discussion. The greed of hatred speech has contributed to the growing number of hate crimes against reformers. People are being attacked on the street, sent them a very hateful, disgusting message, etc. This even leads to death. I don't think we're always aware of the impact of our words. As soon as I'm glad that we're starting to focus on changing the improvement system and watching to make a work-time assessment, we need along with it, in order to make it work, to look at the workforce. I don't object to the fact that we're off to a job estimate, but as the trend has been in Britain, the disabled and long - suffering sufferers are losing their compensation and are obliged to work at the same time as the labour market does not want to solve it because of inflexibility and prejudice and lack of support and assistance. Since the evaluation of the performance into use, premature deaths of disabled persons have increased as a result of poverty in that country. People who are fed are more in the streets, dying because they are starving and found at home, dying of poverty. So I think a lot about the employment of disabled people and others who are part of the group we are discussing and the effect of changing the system. In this context, it is very important that we consider that this is not only about qualified individuals or that it is about strengthening and activating them but also that we need to change our social and systems. It's very interesting in the context of looking at a law on labour markets in Iceland, it's about the individual, not the job market. All focus on the qualified person and on having him do and do all sorts of things but are really not talking about promoting work markets where there is a variety of employment and employment ratios, providing appropriate adjustment under the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled persons by supporting companies and institutions so that they can, for example, improve access and invest in relief tools where there is a need or encourage people to have a flexible presence at work, to work at home, to work at home, to have less hours for some days and longer, etc. There is hardly much to say about education for the job market. I just know, based on the research we have and from my work environment and only from personal experience, that the message you get very often from the labour market is, "We don't want to hire you, you can do very little here, and we don't really want to change anything to make it happen. Of course, not all of these are, but they are the laws and affect our lives. That's what worries me. I don't think it's always that people are made into scapegoats for system defects and a law frame that doesn't work. No matter how much we talk about simplifying the social security system and fictitious about people's abilities and not their faults, which are very important, we can't overlook the fact that we live in a society that is mostly created by unscrupulous people for those who are cheating. They need much help now, they need help, and even conditions to see that disabled people and those of the group we are talking about are valuable and important workers in a job market as well as elsewhere. It's not our responsibility to fit into this group to change and make up for you forever and for the system you've created because we're all just as good as we are. I think it's very important that we here realize that people don't make systems, they don't make their own systems, and the people that create the systems have the highest authority, and they don't even belong to the groups we're talking about today. That is why we, who have the primary responsibility to work with the perimeterd groups, hear what they have to say, and how they want this to be so that we can change these systems and have the responsibility we have to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u34	A respectable president. I think we're here to discuss one of the most important issues of this winter. A position has been established that the minimum wage in this country will be 300 of you. K. and we thought that we would accept that requirement. Why did we feel that way? Because everyone knows that it's hardly possible to live on that amount in Icelandic society, let's just talk about it the way it is. We all know this in our own eyes, we know the value of housing, food, and other needs. 300 up. K. I don't think that's enough. Hence, of course, when it comes to the fact that the government does not intend to ensure that various groups will receive comparable increases. You can't leave them in this context, these groups can't be left in a poverty trap and let this interval become wider than it already is. In recent news reports, we saw clearly what would happen if we were to take the government's way in this regard. It's not acceptable. It's us who are not here to be acceptable. Part of our mission is to run a community. What kind of community is it that leaves large groups of disability and older citizens in a poverty trap? It's not a society that pleases us as officers. That's why we're doing this bill. I was interested in hearing the vice form of a financial committee approaching all of this from the cost of the state and discussing the number of bridges, i.e. do not take into account the legal elevations that will be, etc. When the individual is a government spokesman who has decided to give up on something like more in recent years, the rest of these terms, it has just become, so there's the difference between us and them, how we manage the government, and how they do it. But I'm going to say just as it is that I hope that our transfer at the council, as well as the subsentials and struggles in the community, will cause men to see themselves and that we will be able to work together to make changes in budgets and then get together the increases that will have to occur in the years to come. Many of us also ride bicycles and say, "You were in government during the last term, and you cut down to these groups. Yes, in the economic distress of the last terms, with 216 billion holes in the funds, many measures had to be taken. However, these groups, the lowest income groups, were protected, and the impairments did not come in until the average income in the community. Of course, we would have wanted to avoid it, but we could not have avoided it. So once we get past zero it's so important that these groups get back first, it's important that we get together about it. A respectable president. I also remind you that when the government made changes last year in pension payments, the biggest groups in the world got nothing. It was based on the fact that the first government had been in charge of that group. Many things that are said and done in this discussion are out of the question. Rather, we should try to look at where we are now. Today, in 2015, we have a wealth of government, which is mostly, apart from, of course, debt, but we agree to pay it down, with the position so that we can see the increase in economic growth. So, of course, we're supposed to get together to give a raise to these groups. If you look at only a bill article, they will see important facts there, e.g. ... they'llhaveawk. paritaprevir About 11 of you, Páll the aged son of Árnason crossed over earlier. pensioners do not meet minimum pension criteria and receive specific supplementation. It's a huge group. These include more than 4 of you. seniors, pensioners, and more than 5,500 biofuels. It is an enormous number of people, and it is important that we live decently in it. I'm gonna take an example that I've already taken here because of what we in this room are making decisions about. We are making a decision to leave Icelanders of a certain age or who live with limited ability to live on 190 levels. K. by taxes, by people who live alone, and who have to run. Can anyone in this room tell me he can live by it? That's not possible. This is an example of an older citizen who receives only income from a insurance agency. If he also gets something from a pension fund, take, for example, one who gets 85 yous. K. From a pension fund and the rest of the insurance lab, he might get 217 you. K. by tax. There's nothing much better. Is there anyone in this room who's counting on 217 of you. K., run her own home and all that goes with it? I don't think so. This brings us to attention, and that is what we agree the need to be adjusted. A respectable president. The figures shown in this bill are very interesting. There is also a gender division, and the women seem to be in a special high - risk group, among those who are lazy. I find that very interesting information. V.E.G. The social and housing minister answered the previous unprepared query. Harðardóttir With this exact issue in mind, Oddrón Hardydirtir claims that the increase in next year would result in an increase in minimum wage. We cannot be offered such a misleading presentation. In a sense, this is true but only for four months. On May 1, another increase in minimum wage will be reduced again. We're talking about changing this, and the bill goes around that these groups go along with the trend at the minimum. That must be a normal requirement, and I don't believe we're going to get through it here in the winter. We will strive to reach such a conclusion here, and I know that other members of this body agree on this. I'd like to mention a few things at the end. In the process of this committee, it is also important to examine the interaction, that men remain equal, whether they receive mixed payment from a pension fund or a insurance agency or just a insurance agency. They need to make sure that the others are not left behind, those who receive mixed payment, both payments, and they need to be carefully reviewed. It's complicated, as we have seen. That's not the plan. The plan is to bring all of this together so that the minimum will be the amount. I finally agree and thank you. paritaprevir Freyja Haraldsdóttir's daughter for her number. She was informative and informative at the same time as she was strongly political. I agree so fervently with what. A senator when she says that we should not build systems around a few cheaters. It's not what the system is supposed to be about, it's supposed to be about the people who need it, and we're building it around. We need to keep that in mind. I think it's so often that people always build fences in case. Well, let's just make it clear, but rather watch the system out of those who need it. I was also interested in what she said about the affairs of disabled people and the workforce. I think we need to take a closer look. There's something I think we should talk better here too, the impairments. The possibilities of disabled persons for employment are too small, and we need to review them carefully. Another matter related to older citizens is homeset. I think we at the council have to face that. It is a large group and vastly diverse, with different incomes, different needs, and different backgrounds. A large group, for example, cannot enter a service apartment because they are expensive. Living in a service apartment is expensive. Then there's an argument about the definition of a service apartment. It is always called for that we get together on certain matters and stop being buried. I hope this group will get us out of our holes and get us to talk about what really matters in the community, the standard of living people. The standards I've described here are not satisfactory, they're not decent. It is so simple, and that we put forth the same effort that we put forth to accomplish it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u35	V.E.G. President. I take a sound in this discussion about the bill to legalize the social security law suggesting that social security and pensions follow the development of minimum wage in accordance with collective agreements and will be brought up to 300 you. K. in 2018. I take my heart to this goal, and I think it's a huge interest here for the elderly and micro-organizing pensioners, but it's also fair and fair about how we want to build a community. Of course, sensibilities and microenergy pensioners are not to be considered inferior to those with the lowest salary. As a result of this report, a large group of poor and elderly people live not only in poverty but in long - term poverty. For many, this is not a temporary condition. It is a condition that lasts for a very long time and can therefore last for those who are born with certain impairments or who develop chronic illnesses in the early years. The number of microsurgers who have significant material advantages is increasing, as is suggested in the report. There was also a growing number of them between 2013 and 2014. It's a growing population, and it's happening right now when Iceland is straightening out the economy after the collapse. It is crazy that in the years when the interests of most people in Iceland are growing, there is a lack of material wealth in this group. There is also the need to increase among those who claim to have had to delay medical calls, among those who have frequent financial worries, or who have had to postpone the necessary purchases of medication. So we're not referring to people who are denying themselves for material benefits in the form of necessities and luxury products that may be considered to be denied, at least to some point, postponing new electronic devices or similar items, but here we are talking about vital things, such as medication and getting to the doctor. The situation is now that you have just about 11 of you. Since pensioners do not reach minimum pension criteria, they receive special replacements on their progress, and I want to make it a topic of talk. As I said, I take my heart to the fact that public insurance will be followed by the trends of minimum wage and raise to 300 levels. K. Like the people of the country know, most people if not all of us in this room should know, the social security system is complicated, some say, a repetitive where there's any other angle. It is very important that we not only look forward to improving our improvements but also consider raising various dollar criteria that are in law or social security regulations. There we come to form the special supplement for forwardation, often called adeduction, as well as additional supplements, which are another class. For example, it is paid to those with high medical expenses. These payments are all based on a specific dollar number, and if there are not changes in these Cronus targets as well as improvements are improved, the real increase in pay paid to the most treatable pensioners will be particularly small or at least less than the compensations that are being obtained by these top-priorities. It can be seen in the budget bill for 2016, which suggests a few increases in social security, but not as much as in this bill. Table on page 24. 376 shows that the amount of money that goes to pay more than that, about 40.7%. V.E.G. In fact, the social and housing minister said in his discussion about the budget bill that this figure was something strange or stupid, pointing it to the point. The legislators to look at this further, but if this level of centenarians does not increase, well, a good number of pension workers go out of the limit, which, of course, reduces these payments. This must be kept in mind, for the final outcome must be that we want people's provisions to increase. I'd also like to mention in this regard one group of pensioners who is the group who receives reduced payment on farms. They are the ones who have not been able to live here for 40 years while they were 16◯67 years old. This group enjoys what is the most difficult economic situation, and it must also be kept in mind. This bill does not take care of him, but it is a group we always need to keep in mind. Because there are many concerns about pensioners, I also want to address their concerns. paritaprevir Freyja Haraldsdóttir's daughter on valuation. There has been no great interest in recruiting people with impaired ability to operate. If we change the social security system to replace people and say that they have to work for at least a bit of their living, I am deeply concerned about the labour market. While it is good for a person to do secular work and work as it did, it can be quite difficult if the job does not exist or if nobody wants to hire you. I wanted to mention this in this discussion. Although these are all the things we need to keep in mind when discussing the pension insurance system, it doesn't make any difference that, as I said at the beginning of my case, I take my heart to what is suggested here, and I consider it a very reasonable matter that old age and disability pensions follow the development of minimum wage. However, because of the social security system, we need to keep in mind what the final outcome will be. I dare say that's what's on the screen for the transporters. Earlier in the discussion, there was some question as to how much this bill would cost. Of course, it's necessary to keep out a strange social security system. One way to keep those who have to rely on the social security system in poverty is to say that a government fund does not earn what it takes to finance a single system of welfare. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] That's exactly what it is. A government is doing this by reducing taxes on high-payers or management sectors, such as large production, and by not being able to afford to improve their situation, those who have to rely on society for alimony. It's pretty cheap, I think, to say, "Well, this costs too much, but then at the same time say, " We're not going to make any money. ' Of course, this needs to be examined in context and tailored so that it's fair, that this state is equal, and that those for some reason cannot support themselves have community support for their survival. To be honest, the majority of Icelanders would like such a community, and of course it's our job here to create a system that makes it possible. That's why I hope we agree to let the pension and the disability pension follow the minimum according to the newly established collective agreements and that we go on the job of earning the money so that there could be a welfare community under the name.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u36	A respectable president. I thank you for the excellent discussion this has taken place, and I think it is appreciated that the chairman of the United States will begin a assembly for a Senate hearing that is a solemn task to ensure that there is no sparkling between the lowest paid Icelanders in the elderly and desperate groups on the other hand and those in the labour market. It has been mentioned here in the discussion that holding honor to the fundamental idea that the elderly and the desperate should have the same discretion as the rest of the community will cost their money. That's right. Of course, that's how we do things in our country. The results of a recent decision on the discretion of certain groups of public employees simply lead to a certain cost to a trust fund. It has been returned to May 1 since. It brings in additional funds from a government fund to the institutions involved. It must simply apply the conclusion, and from the conclusion as well as the outcome of agreements, that the elderly and the desperate must, of course, take the same elevations as other groups. And the way we deal with the resulting cost is then just an independent solution ends up with taxes, especially with the largest homes in the country, the big thing, and the special store, which can be lost if people think they lack income to cover these necessary expenses. The reason why it is so important that we take this matter at once and follow it with full weight is that if we let it shine between the people in the lowest wages and those with the lowest pensions, whether those of the elderly or those of the elderly, it will likely mean many years of age that the elderly and the poor live under poorer conditions than the rest of the country. Last time, in 1995, when the Organizational Class was also formed and an independent group of workers had significant increases in the lowest salary, the pension was not paid, and it took nearly a decade to correct the difference that was created by them. It was not until a famous meeting in the National Culture Building was held that signed the agreement of the then state of the United States with the Iceland's Qualification Association on the basis of the difference between 1995 and 2003, eight years later. Therefore, a respectable president is not able to emphasize the importance of this correction in the immediate course of disability and the elderly, for otherwise we are likely to be seeing battles for many years in which we need to live because the poor and the elderly are less experienced than those who have the lowest wage in a labour market. This bothered me very much, and I cannot help but mention the fact that I asked the highest level. A minister of well-being here for a weekend what would take to correct the interest of the elderly and the desperate back to May 1, as was done by certain groups of public employees, as well as the cost of reaching 300 you. K. minimum wage at the same time points as expected in commercial labour agreements. There were no answers. The minister of the well-being didn't know what it was going to cost. It was impossible to draw from the conclusion that Iceland's government had not discussed how much it would cost to give older people and microchip the same dressbacks as general employment markets at the lowest salary. That the government and welfare minister on her behalf should not even work to calculate the cost, but only to decide not to do so and not to consider the cost of it, of course, there are no practices and half the interests of the government to which it can be expressed. At the same time, let us be concerned, such as why. paritaprevir A divinely inspired Þór Þórðarson, vice president of the budget board, which described it here at the expense that might be involved, but men calculate it. The minister of the well - being calculates the cost of older ones and poorer ones following the development of others in the country. She will consider whether and how such costs can be met. She does not just give up before the project is considered. I stress that people will immediately get to work and recognize the cost of this business of righteousness, i.e. That the elderly and the poor simply have the same choice as the other underpaying groups in the land, because they will not cease until they have done so. The sooner we look at the cost, the sooner we will see how we care for it because the question is not whether this matter will be realized but when and how.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u37	V.E.G. President. I welcome, of course, the contribution of this bill. I am one of its carriers. We in the United States believe it is very important that people who have all or some part of their social insurance pensions enjoy the same elevations and were guaranteed in their collective agreements. Spring. The government does not intend to follow the rule, for example, that was under the middle of 2011 under the most difficult conditions of government affairs. Social security payments were then followed by increases in agreement with collective agreements and increases in the minimum paid rates in the collective agreements. Never too often is a good reference. It's a natural system that's too complicated. It is humiliating for people who enjoy social security not to know properly what their rights are because of income connections and impairment. It may be that the social and housing minister did not complete his finished work and reassigned the bill from the previous period, which was a transnational community, but resumed the work. Over the course of two years later, the exact same conclusion has been made. It's been a couple of years since it's been delayed to improve the ideal pensioner; the government that promised full correction in the campaign. It's so far from being fulfilled. Therefore, it must be held that this government has removed income ties with pensions due to basic pensions and other changes made because of the provisional regulations imposed by the government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir. Other changes that would have required adjustment have not been made in terms of a dollar in return, and I am involved only later in my case. What we want in the United States is for pension workers to have increases from the time of a collective contract from May 1, 2015, and this increase goes up to your 245. K. per month. The government's going to scuttle pensioners on these increases, making an eight - month miscalculation. Then we want them to rise again May 1 and then be 260 you. K. every month and the rise again May 1st, 2017, then 2018, and then 300 you will be. Just like a minimum wage. The failure of members to be treated as second-rate citizens in Icelandic society is clearly required by the National Association of older citizens and by the Economic Community. When monthly payments are so low, you'll have a great deal of 15 points. K. a month for eight months being taken from people by not allowing payment to follow collective agreements. As for the centennial delinquency that was to be decommissioned to a new system of social security, which the government has allowed for two years to become a reality, new ideas will still be put in the bill form. I don't think it's likely to be until next year that we'll see a bill. I hope I'm not right, but considering the delay of everything that concerns government reform, I'd be surprised if it had moved into her head to do something useful about these matters. It is best that it can create war with little notice. In 2009, a new improvement team was introduced on top of social security, which was a special extension. It was quite remarkable for those who had no more payment than social security. It is safe to say that after the collapse, the rise became crucial to the ideal pensioners. These supplements were assured to increase over the years following the collapse, but in some cases income insurance was not raised. Now that the state's budget has dropped, the price for fishing, the income tax dropped, especially in the highest paying, and the tax paid through the food tax, there is good reason to correct this. There's no problem with the money of the state. It's going very well, and they're coming in. It is political priorities that determine how they are debated with a budget. It needs to ensure that the share of the specific extension starts to reduce according to the system change in which we are going and that your insurance will increase above others as well as your basic pension. We need to establish a common conclusion about how high we want the basic pension we want everyone to enjoy, that all those entitled to social security enjoy the basic money that people get paid out of the system regardless of their income, because it's a system we all have together. Then it is the insurance policy that should be the bare part of the system and that will ensure the implementation of people. That section needs to be raised, not the specific progressives. It is uncomfortable in the government that it does not say how to raise the pension according to what is required in the budget but only to follow the article, that there are financial laws that determine how insurance is raised. Of course, if it is worst for a pension for a pensioner, it is inexpensive for the state's budget. I find that shocking, and I'll be looking for information on how the idea is to make these increases come out. It can be said that while our bill in the United Nations is much more progressive than the government's proposals in these budgets and the government does not insist on binding themselves permanently to promises of pension candidates, although it is a spontaneous demand in the wake of collective agreements, I must think that, in view of the high government promises for elections, they are willing to reconsider their position on the rise in social security and are ready to do so in a good way for everyone. Otherwise, many pensioners, up to 3/4 pensioners, over 40 thousand people, will not get an increase of what is required in the budget, since their special contributions are increasing beyond other compensation. It's almost hard to talk about this here, Mr. President, because it's so twisted a system, but it also tells us that if we don't clearly say what the intentions are and how to deal with these increases, there's a risk that there's a possibility that there should be an improvement, and so much, but, in fact, the rise will be much less because most of the group will not be raised according to the promises. It'll be our job in the government position to follow after the government groups don't get away with deceiving people and claiming they're going to do something for an election that they're not ready to follow after the election. Both the older people's national union and the National Organization for the United States are very determined in their struggle for the justice of the law to be restored. We in the United States are going to put what we can to the fight and stand with them in the struggle, for this is a matter of righteousness. It will not be a pleasure to make a decision in Generals' sales that there should be an increase in social inequities. The terms of the government under law are on their way. We protest it, and we will use this bill to turn off that route.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u38	V.E.G. President. For a discussion, there is a spell. 3, No. 3th i.e. First things behind the budget and the so - called alliance, which the secretary of finance also transports, which are always the first cases of the council. This is a bill for the legal adjustment of the social security law, which all members of the Group are moving as their first priority. The bill is simply so that in temporary terms of social security law, there is a new increase in the environ mental status of the labour market's co-finishment that recently added to the labour market's quality of the minimum remuneration, i.e. 8.86% of May 1 s., 6.12% on May 1, 2016, and 7.14% on May 1, 2017, which is to be made up of the lowest pay up to 300 levels. A.K., if you've also passed out on the social security and sensibilities in this country. Of course, this is a very reasonable matter. What brings me to my attention on this discussion is the absence of government officials, i.e. Those who are independent, and those who are reaching forward, except for two answers. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur of Þór Þórðarson, the vice president of the budget board, who raised that question to 1st of this bill, i.e. The chairman of the Conspiracy, Páll's Árnason of the Year, had we determined how much this would cost. I don't want to use the word that an increase in sensibility and disability costs something, but these are simply increases that will occur from the efforts of the labour market to raise the lowest market wage in Iceland, fair business. One of the worst things that happened in this society is the lowest wage and the ignominious compensation of the alco-efficient pensioner. Why was there an agreement on such rising levels as we can see? Why is there an increase in Kjara's justice up to 35%, as some have calculated to a certain person who had to stop negotiating for himself and subject himself to a law from the Council to determine their pay? It's because, more dignified President, we're still and we're going to continue in the next few years trying to change the pay system in the country, whether it's the lowest wage or the low pay of old age and disability, in line with that and after what happened here in 2008 when there was complete success. The currency actually collapsed, and the imported goods, of course, increased a great deal, which actually went into the prices. As a result, the country's population is paying a much higher price for imported goods. Then it goes out to something like it's going down and it's in a import-dependent country like Iceland. This has been the case with the entire economy, but these factors have been followed. I'm going to tell you again from the chair at the General Assembly that, of course, it wasn't with the happy mind that last government in its last term went on to raise taxes, cut down and deposit various problems in public health and disability pensions. It was not with any pleasure. That is why we also said that as soon as we were older, we were about to recover from the severe crisis and the great shock that was to be brought back right away. This bill is given out of necessity, including Because existing government groups do not intend to fulfill it. Why is there no increase in sensibility and disability pensions from May 1, 2015, as agreed by the labour market partners with the lowest salary? Why is it first started on January 1st?? I think it's because the government groups have decided that the amount of money they take is equal. I'm so sorry that the candidates and independents do not attend this discussion because, for example, I had asked every speaker from these categories what they had meant by the convention of their approved councils in 2013 just before elections. I refer there, a respected president, recently in an article in the News magazine, with the inscription ▪ Unclean children of Iceland, as Halldór Gunnarsson, wrote by former parish priest in Holti. There, he even mentioned, by permission of a president: ▪ At the 2013 High School Assembly, it was agreed that the poor elderly and the desperate, which went into effect on July 1, 2009, would be reversible and that the pensions of the elderly and the poor would be increased because of their failures after a collapse. The independent party did not give up. I call attention again to the fact that it was right before the election. It agreed that the poorer population and disability experienced by older citizens, mentioned on June 1, 2009, would be promptly reversible and the condition of the crisis should be corrected. It wasn't all over yet. These were approved by the two national conventions just before the election. The Independence Party sent, that I think, all the seniors and microplies of this country, a letter that simply said: "We're going to cut off the income of a pension. I do not hesitate to argue that these approved promises and the assurances they made caused many pensioners and many disability pensioners to support these groups because of the promises they have so betrayed, just as I do not hesitate to insist that many pensioners and microenergy pensioners turned away from their existing administration groups, controversies, and left greens, because of the limited income we have to attack after a collapse. As I have said, we did it often with bad taste in our mouths, of course, but I always follow that it was said that when it was better and the situation would improve, this would be returned, and that is why the proposal is moved. I'm not going to get out of bed for a further discussion of the 1st. The point. I agree with it. 7. We're out of Suðvest. "The Freyja Haraldsdóttir, said earlier; the system is very complex, and it is difficult to talk about because of a number of income connections and power restrictions. Therefore, it is said, among other things, that in combination with the proposed changes, there is a need to reduce the severity of income impairment due to the specific replacement of pension, i.e. A dollar a year in the social aid Act. There's a lot more to mention in this relationship, but as I say, I'm not going to get out of it and I don't have time to go over it for a team. I just want to say briefly that the emphasis of the officers is expressed in our first Congress, and that's why it's presented. In fact, I was rather upset to hear that the only input from the Independence Party member was to ask what the package would cost, as it were. Perhaps it is now in financial terms that the cost of a remuneration, including the lowest wage in the next year, will be 30 to 40 billion dollars.? The fact is, about one third comes back to the state funds in the form of taxes so that the net may be 20 billion dollars. I don't know if it's right, but I don't like discussing it on these lines, as I did to talk about it earlier. Of course, these extra expenses are involved. It is the same with the labour market party, the firm that negotiated the increase and intends to stop paying the minimum wage, and that is therefore the result of the attack on these high - quality elevations, which may not occur after a year or so, in order to improve to 300 levels. K. By May 1st, 2017. I reiterate what I said: Here we are increases that are the result of the collapse of the economy, the currency collapsed, and everything went up. It'll take us a while to set things straight. At the winch of the Crown, sectoral sectors were given a large amount of money, and the fall of the crown made more money. They might get more money at the moment if the Navy didn't have as much money as it is when currency flows into the country because of the arrival of tourists. Likely, the Secret Bank assesses this so that the exports of the exports have no further tolerance for the crown's funding. I am convinced that the next few years will have nothing to do with the dollar, so we will change our system. Remuneration, pensioners, biofuels, and others will have elevations accordingly. This suggestion is really nothing more than a continuation of accepting these facts. Then you can discuss how to finance the package. Of course, he must finance the income that the government fund has, and he must decide to share it with them. That will be all for the same crowns. I remind you, at the end of this, that the current government groups have decommissioned a fiscal tax and electronic tax. Hunting costs have been raised, even though I say in the middle of my saying that when it comes to fishing costs, it is easy to place the best in this article, but it may be difficult for them to do less. The same is really true about income taxes. The reduction in income taxes is being proclaimed, reducing the natural income that comes in. The facts have to be acknowledged that we need to improve our pension and pension according to what has happened on the general market. A respectable president, therefore, I rejoice that this bill is here on the 3rd matter. These are the highlights that I thought we could hope that everyone would agree on.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u39	A respectable president. I've been paying any attention to the discussion, such as why. A senator knows. Hv. paritaprevir Kristján Möller isn't a newborn in politics, but he said something that surprised me. Hv. A senator said: "I don't want to talk about the cost of this proposal, but the chairman of the motion. A senator. paritaprevir The Árni of Páll Árnason confirmed that the total cost would be 30 to 40 billion. What's to call it if it's not cost? I think that's what we're talking about. A senator needs to answer that question. Hv. A senator spoke grapplely of the fact that the government had done nothing about these matters. Hv. A senator knows that this government has set priorities for pension insurance and health insurance, and it's been a difficult fight during the council, huh? A senator knows those numbers well. The Chairman of the day. True, the senator spoke of this as not to be financed by insurance bills, as it has been done. Rather, it would be done by a special price for the use of common resources, specifically referring to travel services and the fishing grounds. Now, however, there is a reason. A senator forwards and speaks of the wealth tax, which has become particularly damaging to older people who were not living in a pension fund. The last government took out the individuals who own pensions, especially government officials and government officials, who have been that long, divorced themselves, but instead taxed the people who could not pay in a pension fund. First of all, I want to ask who. A senator: If the cost is not to be discussed in this context, what should we talk about? Is there a dispute in the United States on how to finance this? A word of reason. A senator can understand that he refers to increases in taxes other than the president. And since we're talking about promises, the Conspiracy promised to cancel the wealth tax. Counts 'em out. A senator that it was a mistake or that he should betray that promise?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u40	V.E.G. President. For one thing, I am very pleased to hear it. paritaprevir While this issue is just the second and the second times in question, Gudleful Þórðarson, though it is the case. He comes here and asks about what I was talking about, i.e. that I didn't want to use the word cost, just as I don't want to use the future. But what should be mentioned? Yes, this is an increase in the expenses of the state funds, of course.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u41	Why?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u42	It is obvious, and there is no need to use any phrase. In the post - collapse period, it was quite remarkable that the workers were asking for an increase in insurance money to pay more on the employment insurance fund, which was certainly not the first thing to do after a crash. So, in the example, people come to the conclusion and that the workers of the labour market and the government find ways to make the changes needed to be made and ways to finance them, i.e. to address increased expenses. But as I told you earlier, it's very interesting that people don't discuss this big thing more than they do. That's why I want to ask you why. A senator, as soon as I thank for his participation in this discussion: What did the Independence Party mean by its approval before the 2013 election, that insurmountation of older citizens and disability by June 1, 2009, would be promptly canceled and that the contracting of the crisis should be corrected? And what did the Independence Party mean by a campaign letter to a pensioner who was sent and signed by Bjarni Benediktsson, president of the Independence Party, saying, "We're going to cancel our pension insurance"?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u43	A respectable president. I'm here to ask what. A senator, but I'm sure I'm sorry that he doesn't answer the questions I asked him. It's something important. Hv. A senator was here at the summer council when the government succeeded and knows what was the first thing she did. It was going to the limit he mentioned. This knows why. A senator still decides to use the same word. Hv. However, a senator spoke of putting on the wealth tax again, on which the United States promised not to do. It is possible for anyone to go and talk to a guy named Google ▪ and turn up a conversation with the last financial minister of the United States of America, where he said the tax would not be replaced. But here comes why. A senator who says he wants to betray that election code. I want to ask you why. Senator: Is it his will to go against what was promised regarding the wealth tax? The wealth tax has been called a widows tax, and for good reason, it was particularly bad in that group. Here are some questions I made that would show which people paid him; they were older people with low incomes. If you're gonna get the rich, they're gonna get out as often as they used to. I'm also going to ask because of what. A senator and director of the United States crossed the fact that he wanted to set up a special tax or tax for the use of common resources, specifically referring to travel services and fishing resources in this context to finance these expenditures, which would be between 30 and 40 billion. That's what I'm talking about. A senator would not agree? There are two questions: Does he want to betray the Union's campaign code on the wealth tax? Does he agree with his chairman, or is there a controversy in the category on how to finance the 30 to 40 billion?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u44	V.E.G. President. I have usually come close to a matter here, so when big business needs to be discussed, whether it's a fee or a income matter, the art of making a deal, that political parties at the World Council are trying to reach a conclusion. This is how I have often talked about the pressures of hunting fees and exactly what I said there about the wealth tax, no matter how much it is replaced. For he ought not to be so spread out; I know not how to say, that he burdeneth much those that have less. He is to come to those who have much to offer, who can do more. Consider the example of fishing costs. There are preparations that certainly have the ability to pay high fishing fees, but there are smaller types that cannot do so, and if that leads to compression, it's not a good way. The important thing is, a respectable president, and I don't want to play around. A senator on this matter: Can we really not agree that the growth that the workers of the labour market agreed to bring in also to the albino and micro-energy donor from May 1 and be paid there just as state funds pay it to those with the lowest salary, it's a contract to pay it from May 1? Why can't you do that here? And if we agree on that, all political groups in Iceland, we're also going to find a way to meet the greater financial expenses in this regard. It's only about what it's like. A senator made an antiquated subject, how much this package costs. The lack of knowledge and the failure of the Ministry of Health to answer this question today, of course, shows that the government groups never intended to do this on May 1.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u45	A respectable president. I'm just coming up here to celebrate this bill. I really hope that there will be a good parade at the council, and they will talk back and forth and take all the factors into account. Hv. paritaprevir The Freyja Haraldsdóttir did well in the past what we thought in the bright future is about and what we think. I also come up here to think about that by 2015 we have to stand in this situation, that desperate, and even old-tempered pensioners need to bring a cup of believing to the government in order to live a decent life. I think it's quite different. It's been observed many times in this discussion today, and members of Congress have noted that the charges have been dropped, taxes, fishing costs and other things, I don't want to be going through it all, it's been passed through it. Yet, it does tell us that this government has progressively relinquished income. Then it turns out that income change from the budget bill is 15,2 or 15.3 billion this year, impressive. That's great. That's great. You are glad that you're working on things, paying off debts, and making money. I've wondered how impressive it is while we can't take care of these people and can't make the minimum move. I don't think it's very joyous. We decided to pay our taxes. It is such a social agreement to pay taxes to run welfare systems, children's education, health systems, basic services all over, the road system and to the desperate and disabled, to people who cannot earn their own money. It is a covenant that we make to pay taxes for these people so that they can live a decent life, which they do not do today on a large scale. It shows that 10,665 pensioners do not achieve minimum wage criteria are completely different in countries such as Iceland. We read in the news that fishing companies pay more than billions of dollars to profit. Business is good, tourism is running billions of dollars, and luxury cars are never sold before. At the same time, we can't pay minimum pension to people who really need it. It's just as shameful and as shameful as the lowest wage in this country. They are and have always been a disgrace to this community. For me, there's also a big question about how we want to live in Iceland. What kind of community do we want here? Is it a society that embraces its subjects, cares for them, and cares for them large and small? Is it a community of fellow feeling and compassion and love? Or is it an individualism and greed that is to rule a government that has been in charge for so long in Iceland? I'm glad that people are doing well, and they're rich and they're rich and they're rich. This often indicates that people work hard, which is great. Me and the Icelanders are good people. We've always been. I'm happy if people can get to cubits and have plenty of money, but I want them to pay taxes too. There are too many people in Iceland who get away with it don't pay income taxes, too many, which makes us unable to run this welfare community properly. I don't care what the government promised or what the previous government gave, we live today, and this is a question of how we're going to do this. Also, I think it's incredibly shameful that people in the pensions have to knock on the door of government and government funds and ask for almost charity to survive. The people who are going to the pension today are the people who raised us and built this country, tore them up after war, and some of them lived through the Great Depression. These are the people who worked in the dark between building this community and we can't give them the minimum amount of progress. That is shameful in one word. We are to live in such a way that we make it possible for everyone here to live a good life without worrying about it. It came to me an older citizen the other day, if I may call him that, an older man, and asked, "What are they doing to us? How am I supposed to survive 170 of you? K. a month? - He's not only an older citizen but also an invalid after an accident. This is a man who has worked his entire life hard to raise a family, and he can hardly live. In view of the nation's chief men, the highest. Prime Minister, secretary of finance and others, say about the situation in Iceland today, that it's all going up here, I think they're right, I think it's all coming up. Unemployed jobs are growing, and it seems to be all over the blues, but then we can't provide 300 you. K. Minimum wage. I think 300 of you. K. minimum wage far too small, far too low. It's under the minimum level of the Ministry of Health for furthering. I just think it's a little too small, especially in the light of what middle managers and managers and firms of large companies make in pay; maybe it's the owners of the same companies and pay the total amount of 200 to 250 you. K. Minimum wage in the most difficult jobs in the country. I often get a little excited when I'm thinking about these matters. I myself have worked as a workman almost all my life, and I know what it is to have to do with my life. I meet people in almost every single day who are still fighting in these jobs, working darkly between themselves and hardly on, can hardly run a family, can't allow themselves to do anything. It's sad that this is the situation in Iceland today, still. There's one thing that's sure they don't lack money in this country, that's for sure. They are misunderstood, and they are badly spread throughout society. As I told you before, too many people get away with not paying taxes, getting past it with some capital tax tax tax taxes, and all kinds of tax laws that make them pay no taxes. Those who pay capital taxes don't pay to their country mates, he's running into state funds. Now the rural communities have problems with the disabled, and they're getting under control, perhaps because they don't make enough money. I hope this bill goes forward as one step in building a good society and that we will continue together, no matter whether we are in a government or a government position, to ensure good life for people who do the most difficult jobs and microchip and pensioners. I've been listening to the discussions recently, in spring and in the media that all of this is in the blues, as I said earlier, but it's not to be seen when you talk to people. Why are people unhappy? Why does the advance team recommend 11% in polls if they do so well? There's some reason for that, that's just the way it is. If things are so good, then there's something wrong with it. I've mentioned the correction. It was a promise, and it was true, but I would have made this money different, just in the welfare system. So I say that too, I don't know if it's all right to say it, but it's 15.3 billion left on the state funds this year, or calculated by it. If the stability project that is due next year is going to be followed, it will be used to pay off debt instead of 15 billion dollars left over. The rest can be used to provide these groups and the health system more money too, I would have thought it could be done. Besides, I'm totally against those tax reductions. I don't understand why we should lower taxes, even though the country is rising and even increasing in this way. As I say, I hope this bill is going to work out, and then we'll join together as one of the legislators and the government to ensure that we don't have to argue about it at the Council that older citizens and pensioners and micro-employers have to knock Algeis every day, throughout the year.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u46	Madam President. We're here to discuss the bill to legalize social security laws and increase pensions to 300 yous. K. I come up here to support this case, which has been recommended here, and I think the need to look at the sensibilities of the elderly and the disability pensioner is accompanied by the proposed minimum wage for 300 of yours. K. in the country after three years. Of course, we must not leave this group unsettled when it is finally possible to take bigger steps than has been made in the lowest possible compensation, and it is of course well worth that it is not possible to see that men are not taking the same steps in matters of government. True, it is true here in our discussion that the number of old and disability pensions needed to be affected during the last term after the financial collapse that took place, so it could not be achieved. Of course, they looked to it as early as it is now, it would be one of the first works of the government to improve the ideals of the people who needed to be affected and that they would make a good - looking person. I find that changes to the lowest wage in the country, the minimum in the country, have been observed by unions and unions in terms of which the contracts are viewed as reference. But there's also the possibility that during the last term, a line was drawn, a line of defense against the ideal old and disability donor. That line was about 200 yous. K. And she was protected that the terms should not go down any more than that. Then you can point out that at that time, there were a minimum wage under that amount of about 180 yous. K. And if we look at this in this context, it's just so natural that these groups also benefit from further prosperity in the country and will not yield to the boat of those in the general labour market who have reached the stage, which is now not to cry for, to receive a total wage of a minimum of 300 you. K. after three years. It can also be noted that these groups, whether in low - paying groups or in the case of sensibilities, have low incomes that most of their expenses are involved in the production and consumption. It is not as if these people were depositing in a bank book from their earnings. If pensions and minimum pay increase, the increase is largely to the cumulative need for the people involved. The need to buy food for the home, drugs, clothing, health care, and so on is cumulative. There is no danger that these funds will return to society and return both to the state box and to the economy. In this discussion, I often feel that people forget that this money goes very fast and that it actually goes faster back into consumption than in high-priority earners, many of them, through a variety of corporate compensations and special contracts. I also feel that there are differences between groups of people who have to be looked out for, some of whom are better off, and others are worse off. I think women are at high risk because they generally get less money from pension funds. I know this well since I worked in the labor movement with low - paying women, with a small pensioner when the time came to take a pension, usually goes to that bottom limit. It is all too large a group of low - paying women who have worked hard along the housework, are worn and worn out after a long life's work job, and when they leave the workplace, someone would think that they could start enjoying their older years, and maybe get something on vacation, what is now available is just right to crawl. It is a disgrace to our society to live in such a way that the people who have worked hard and toiled through the years to get this nation to the place they are today. I think, though it is always possible to place prices on all things and to do so, it is certainly the basis for these groups to receive comparable increases as in the general labour market in the lowest paying market. There's been talk of how to finance this. Of course, it's to be financed, like the other thing we make of our country's common funds. That is why it is very bad and more serious that the state's weakening of income now by changing the tax system and by reducing tax levels and by going back to the place that was before a collapse when they took the income and with moderate income paid a relatively much more money to the community than they did earn. In the end, we're always dealing with the change in national cake, and what I and the left people are fighting is that there'll be more equations in the community, and they're calling us to earn money to live under powerful welfare systems and groups such as old age and microenergy pensioners who are living under difficult conditions are not left in cold ice when the economy and the interests of the State are rapidly improving. Clearly, this government is going to lower taxes on the more income and throw away income stocks, I'm going to cover a wealth tax and energy taxes, and a lot of money in fishing costs on the large fishing industry. She chooses to sacrifice it - to do what? To further contribute to an inequities in the country. I don't give much to it when government supporters come up and howl for the fact that this case is already here and is being discussed with us that we just can't afford it. It's not true that we can't afford it, but it's wrong to change the cake, and we should be able to afford to offer our senile and disability pensions a decent wage to support ourselves. I support this matter in my entire mind and believe that this is a big matter that will take place in the discussion ahead of the budget and in general with regard to income and expenses and how the national cake is divided amongst the population.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u47	Madam President. I recommend here for a bill to legalize the Land Hospital Building Fund. This is the fourth matter of this assembly on a deck. 4. Transporters with me have a problem. Councilmen of Svandís Svavarsdóttir, Þóra Errah, Árnadóttir of Katrín, daughter of Jakobsdóttir, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Rafney Rapney Magnúsdóttir, and Ögmundur of Jónasson's son. So the House Left Green is united with the bill. I'd like to let it be mentioned at the beginning of the discussion. I was approached by a health minister who informed me that he could not attend a discussion on this matter, which he would otherwise have been interested in, because of other duties, and because of my high regard for it. Minister to present it. On the other hand, there could be many more illuminators. Councilmen or others at the highest. Ministers for the discussion of the priorities of the government opposition. First, let me explain general reasons for the matter and then discuss some of its articles and some other factors. This is a reimbursement of a bill submitted to the last assembly, but the case could not be carried out. I suppose, though, that there was a review and a separation between committees, so there is no work on the matter. Material situation in this case remains unchanged as to the uncertainty of the funding of the New York Hospital. One example is that of a national budget plan for the next four years as high as possible. The secretary of finance set out for us last spring and was finally taken care of at the council, did not expect an investment as large as this one. It was, in fact, very narrow, and it was assumed that each year the state had investments except as sensitivity 1.2% of GDP, a historically low percentage. For example, a report that followed the motion could suggest that within these numbers or because of the scope of space, there was not expected to be a foundation cost for the treatment core or the main building of a Land Hospital ◆ a university hospital in the vicinity of a 453/450 billion U.S.A. However, the need for a renewal of the land hospital's facilities, hopefully, is somewhat dissatisfaction. I don't think the point of the matter is that we have to take the stand and get started to create decent housing for this central nuclear activity in the nation of our national Hospital. There are debates about some of the other factors, such as a location that I'll take only later on. So here is one advantage that we face and have the potential to secure in the next few years the budget of funding so that we can engage in this national cleaning project, which would be said to extend or more than a reimburse money tax, some taxation on the property of all the richest parts of the country, which would be collected for several years to this purpose. I'll find that later when I discuss the subject of individual articles. Great preparations have been made for the renewal of the land hospital's facilities, in fact in the past ten years at least, and it is now becoming so much as possible that there are fully developed plans for new buildings on the Ringway, and in preparation the complete design of the hospital's own nuclear functions is complete. Similarly, plans for the renewal of the part of the present building will be used for the operation have been developed, but the current situation is quite clear that, in general, projects will not begin undiscovered unless it is taken care of and that they will be able to be financed. You can put in 500 million. K. or a billion to finish the design or other, but it is quite clear that once the project begins, even tens of billions of years would be the most controversial, for it is certainly not practical to distribute such projects over a very long period of time. The main building needs to be determined and built at a normal building speed, which makes it clear that there will be a high cost between an interval and a half to three years. We now know of many examples that people have undertaken important national cleaning projects by obtaining special income and earmarks of such categories. It is enough to include the nose tax, which goes to the elderly, market income that has passed for years on to this lawsuit group and has been the source of the income that finances the necessary structure of services to the elderly, especially the construction of nursing and nursing homes. Men in general have been affected, and I don't think that there was much debate about extending that tax and promoting it, although it is, of course, not an exemplary if it does, flat nose tax on all individuals. We can mention the example of the government's special bond version with tax motives when men completed the road, and this could continue to be counted. Therefore, it is not being invented in this regard, and I allow myself to claim that the nation has a full understanding that it may be justified and necessary to resort to a special means of lifting this rock, which is, in fact, not to be a nasty piece of rock, seeing in the light of these nations of Iceland and national production approaching 2,000 billion, building a treatment center for the Land Hospital of 4,5EV50 billion. This is not to say that it is to be exorbitant. But the situation has been that these plans are in a waiting position because they are not limited to financial resources. It might be noted that the current government has already canceled much more income every year than it would be necessary to build a hospital simply by releasing the wealth tax, reducing fishing costs, throwing out energy taxes, dropping tolls, paying taxes, paying taxes, paying taxes on medium income, and so on. But all right, if it makes these matters come back again, we'll at least be suggesting that we reimburse the wealth tax reimbursed, i.e. that all of the richest families or individuals in the country contribute especially to the power of their wealth. I'm better able to find out how he's planned for this bill in a slightly different picture from what was being done. There is one place to discuss the union of the Hospital, and hopefully there is no need to discuss it. The land hospital is expelled in many places, not just two, as the conversation would often lead to, i.e. that the whole operation is on the other hand, on the Ringtrack and on the other hand in Fos Sorcery, but now it isn't. The hospital, in effect, has activity in much more places, but the main hospital activity is carried out in these two places with its massive problems. For this reason alone, the hospital is urgent. It is entrusted with an unambiguous economy, and the same process is being introduced into modern facilities that meet the demands of time. No one should underestimate in these matters how important it is for us to have a modern - day standard of health care and to make demands today. Despite our good old, elegant land hospitals, which will, of course, fit, have run so much water to the sea, and the trends and changes are so rapid, including in certain, extremely specialized, and expensive, and extensive equipment that, in some cases, are difficult, and may not be possible to fit into the existing facilities. For example, if the purchase of positronics is finally being accomplished or rather to accept the gift of positronics into Iceland, it could be said that it would have been good to have a new, large, therapeutic, one that was designed for such devices and tools. It also ensures that our highly trained professional in this field is able to make first - class housing, get a top - level working situation, and work at a land hospital at ◯ university hospital as an attractive and exciting option. Thus, there is little greeting today, as well as reports on health risks in expert offices, molds, windows leaks, offices in containers and everything. The reality is that - I don't remember the ratios - at least at least for the housing of Lands Hospitals, at least for the failure of a university hospital, he's not available, and in fact they're throwing money in trying to maintain and maintain minimal maintenance of housing that has no future for this activity. I also believe that this is an important reaction to the immediate problem and is involved in securing this operation's care, but it is now difficult enough to deal with competitiveness, remuneration, and the like, as we know, even though the working conditions and the working environment are not too acceptable and hardly acceptable. To be honest, I don't want to tell you what the situation had been in the Land Hospital if that light had not been on fire during the past few years, that in sight it was about to begin building a new hospital. I know it's well with people who work there, and they're well connected to a land hospital at a local hospital that the building of a new hospital has burned like a light in the dark when these activities have been very alert to protect themselves because of insufficient financial resources, because of a poor dresser, a heavy load of work, and so forth. The added income strain, i.e. The wealth taxes that are put here to be extended, in a slightly altered form, and now harmed. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur - minded Þórðarson, who made the very wealthy taxes to discuss previous matters, was disfellowshipped, for he believed that those who paid the wealth tax were mostly poor or poor widows. It is an old man who the Independence Party can do very well when it is creating some ideological refuge for the lack of paying taxes by property or material people at all. Then there can be some sort of twisting that it is so unfair, for example, that poor widows are caught in paying money. The same was used against the property taxes of the day that independence persons were baptized and called widows tax. This is not a common property tax. It is taxation on wealth that is more than high in the eyes of all normal people, i.e. that's 75 million people with no debt. K. and married couples with their own debts of 100 million. K. In terms of tax returns 1.25% of the wealth above. So, widows don't. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur - god of Þór Þórðarson's son has been quite wealthy if they have paid some wealth tax to the point, or the more likely - indeed, people with very big and valuable properties owe a little more than 100 million. K. or so. And well - meaning, they only pay from the above, so most of the time it is very insignificant. In view of this, as shown by the pressures of government taxpayers during the past few years, who are the natural neighbors of a wealth tax system? It was a relatively small group who lived up to the amount of payment. It was the billionaires, the one with 1,000 or 3,000 billion, or something that certainly paid a considerable amount of money. Then there was a number of people who just licked the property limits and paid off 5 billion. K. 10 million. K. which were above the pay limits in a clean, debtless property. In order to meet the criticism, which is certainly entitled and I have never demeaned, that it may be unfair to equalize those who are responsible for the clean property in an apartment house for their own use, and those who have very large stocks or assets, it is proposed that in the case of some of the clean property that makes up a strain for the possession of a wealth tax, there is a home for their own use, i.e. Homes in which the person lives should be withdrawn from 30 million. K. of which, in the case of a taxable individual and 40 million. K. in the case of a taxable marriage. In other words, there is an additional cut-off to the wealth tax strain in the case of the individual's home. This will likely lead to the reduction in the number of non-profit wealth taxes which would be considerable, i.e. A considerable number would fall below the market limits, or the cut-off line is now more appropriate to talk about here, but the remaining ones who had very much money, stock property, and other valuables that formed stocks for such a wealth tax. Without a doubt, I'm stressing that it's a loose estimate, this would reduce the income of a fortune tax of about $1,000 billion, 1,000 million. K. plus/minus. It's a bit difficult to calculate it precisely unless you have data from the first hand from the pressure of the tax, but from the number of people who paid property taxes and if you notice that about half of them at least would use such a payback goal, this should not be removed. Nevertheless, to meet the criticism that people who mainly own their possessions in their own housing, it is evident that there is no reason to believe that the tax would be such an exchange, and with this change it would be less than 93/410 billion. Each year when he arrived for payment after a year. There is strong evidence that the wealth of this group of people is increasing rapidly. The development was well under way during the last two years of a wealth tax or payment, the growth of the tax stock. In other words, three to five thousand of the richest families or individuals in Iceland quickly increase their wealth. First, in registered partners or in general companies, a part of which can be viewed as a growing value share. It has been a fine product of money, as we can see from the growth of investment funds and special savings funds and other items. Third, and most important, these groups are those who benefit more than anyone else when the economy is on the move. The nature of it is that it is flowertime for those with a lot of money, business, business, money, and money to invest when the economy grows, they increase their wealth rapidly under such circumstances. So I have reason to believe that even if the tax rate was dropped, even if it would still be relatively easy to collect 8◯10 billion dollars. Each year with a wealth tax rate, even with a tax rate below what was done in the years he lived in, 11 through, and 16, as originally laid. That's what I'd like to say about the income stock that's being laid there. It is obvious that, with a collection of wealth taxes in milder form and even with a lower tax rate than at the time, of the growing wealth of those who would pay it, it is very easy to make money to build the treatment core of a new Land hospital in a five - year period. Because the tax was laid on a very national interest and purpose, there is no reason to fear its legitimateness. In the course of his day, there was a disagreement with someone who was not satisfied with doing his part in this way to build up Iceland that tested whether he was free from the tax, but the tax kept at all, and was convicted legitimately, knowing that the government's access to grammatic taxation is very much. In that case, only the individual articles of the bill. In itself, it is simple. However, it is proper to make a few statements as to whether this is expected according to Article 1. and, in fact, 2st and 3rd pars. To establish a special building fund which will become an independent financial and economic fund. He will be employed in order to finance new buildings and major improvements in the building of a land hospital, our main hospital, and our university hospital. The role of this fund would be merely to receive and, after some cases, to take on their income according to the law. It would also be permitted to receive voluntary donations, provided that the funds were delivered without reservation in order to run for the construction of a land hospital. The funds would be spent solely on reimbursement of the budget for new buildings and major renewals of land hospitals as the project would wind up and the funds allowed. Incomes of a wealth tax per provision for preliminary No. The XXXIII Act on income taxes, which are reactivated in Article 6. The bill, slided to the Land Hospital Building Fund. You might ask: " Why start a special fund and set aside your income? Yes, it is simply because by the laws of this sort, they were above all doubt, wasting any suspicion that these funds as they did, they went to a government fund, they went to a special building fund, went on a special bill under special regulations, and were forbidden to take care of them for several other projects, so those paying the wealth taxes would be sure that he would contribute to this task. I'm going to allow me to believe that just as most people accepted to pay a fortune tax to help build up Iceland after the crash, the majority of them would happily pay a fortune tax for five years in order to build a new Land hospital of the University Hospital. Section 4. assuming that the fund is permitted to pay in advance to some prior income by taking it out of loans or at least by making commitments on the basis of the required income, but never more than 4/5 of what plans were made that it would be expected to receive on the basis of its established income. In that case, if such situations arose, there would be a built - in flexibility in the system and the state could not assume that the construction plans had to be stopped or stopped because they were not all in the house. Of course, the law will already come into effect, and then it will be 6. which prolonges and alters the value of the provisional regulations in the income taxes established at the time. The wealth tax, or big tax, is a well - known phenomenon and is laid on many countries around us, just in different shapes. Perhaps the closest thing to mention is Norway, where about a long time, I don't know how far back there has been a special wealth tax placed on the richest part of the Norwegian nation. In that case, for example, the product tax (for example, for example, is an overcrowded fortune.) Although some extreme rights have been rubbed at times against this tax in Norway, there is a relatively wide conspiracy to place it in the oil - rich Norway. This is not because they have some special financial problem or were at least not until the oil price fell. A government fund is probably given with about 15% left over, and the Norwegian put it aside into the fund, but they didn't cancel the premium tax, the wealth tax. Why not? Because in Norwegian politics it was only fair and natural to have this, that the richest people in the country especially contributed, in return, could be protected from paying the people a little more on taxation or do better in the welfare service, and so on. That, of course, is a political thought behind it. Third, Madam President, a few words on the location issue that has been very recently discussed and has raised this discussion again, so you're a little bit thinking about it. To me, that's settled a matter a long time ago. I understand very well that there may be, and there have been differences of opinion, but the conclusion along the years of preparation and conversation and many reports became the same, that the wisest option was to build on Ring Road. Especially after a collapse when people began to reevaluate some of their previous plans and try to adapt them better to our present economic reality, to seek only more practical solutions in this situation, and to do something that could be done, and no further preparation would be needed. All of this applies to the location of the Ring Road, where all planning procedures are completed, everything that turns it around. The state and city rulers of the Land Hospital agree on this conclusion, as shown in a newspaper article from the highest level. Minister, mayor and director of the Land Hospital. It is clear that if you plan to reinvent it with a discussion of a wide range of approaches, a whole different solution, it could be a disaster, i.e. that the plans would be postponed for many years because it would have to start from scratch, first to choose the new location, to ensure that land if it was not a land to be used by the State, would have to be handled entirely by a planning process from its foundation. Then there would have to be a complete design from the foundation of a new building, and if one were to fail to use any of the former facilities in the hospital, making new house space plans, and a new need analysis of all of that together, would need to be made based on a new hospital building. In the world's best world when there is enough money, it is a cool solution to build a new hospital from the bottom of the earth and not to use an older house, some of which are more recent than the baby's hospital. But I think, and it's come to my conclusion after going through these cases over and over again, that this is the more realistic option we have in front of us, can attack and that he's good. I have no reason to believe that there will be a good solution for the hospital of ◯ university hospital to get a new and large core structure and over the most important part of the operation and then to use the best of the existing housing. I worry about the other thing, though there are valid reasons in the case of those who speak for the fact that it might have been best to build from the bottom of the ground, but I fear that the bite would be big, animal, difficult to swallow; yet, I fear the uncertain state and the intervening situation that would arise while men would take it over to that point. So let us not forget that there would be a changed situation in which the work of the Land Hospital might last for the next ten years in a home that should be canceled. Of course, it would not be easy to place a lot of money on maintenance and compensation while the home should be used for other purposes when one day a person could move to a brand - new hospital. I'm not going to have any more words than I suggest, finally, that the matter goes on. Forensic committees and to argue that last year this case took place, and there are other members of the Parliament that are related to the construction of the Land Hospital. As part of this matter, there are certain tax-technical issues and you might argue that a financial and business committee may be unjustly treated with tax issues. Of course, this too is a large financial matter, and a financial committee can well claim that in part it is a building. But I think it will be easier to resolve by means of a well - being committee that has had these issues to look after the opinions of these committees, others or both. So my proposal is the same as last year, Madam President, that the case goes on. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u48	Madam President. We here discuss a bill to legalize the construction fund of a land hospital, which I am one of the partners that, like any member of the left movement, has a green supply. I would like to begin my speech on this matter by saying that I think that it is absolutely right as a 1st transporterr. paritaprevir Stigrim J. Sigfússon, in his introduction, said that the need for a new land hospital was likely a dissipation in Icelandic society. I think it's safe to say, everybody understands and knows that the existing facilities are not all that you can live and that you have to build a new hospital. In order to start a project, the funds and the work of this bill are needed, to set up a building fund for the Land Hospital to ensure the resources needed to make the building possible. Hv. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's stylist mentioned in his introduction the discussion that took place here in the summer on the PET probe that was given to the National Hospital. He waits for delivery and for it to be put into use, waiting for him to be put on his arms. It may say more than very many words about the absurd health - care situation in the nation, that the latest and best needed medical tools are not simply being used because the facilities are so old, partly so old that they are not suitable for the tools and tools needed in modern health - care systems. The report on the bill shows that there is a great need to deal with the problems facing when it comes to securing health care and that we need to be able to compete for qualified personnel in other health institutions, which are better prepared for the use of equipment and facilities. How important it is that we keep these important and well - educated people in our country and in the medical sector! Of course, we know all the last loss of an important loss, well - educated and extremely qualified workers from a country, not only because they think they can get a better salary elsewhere but also because many abroad are offered a better salary. And we're only talking about working positions but we don't even mention the circumstances of the users, patients who need any part of the hospital. It must be said of itself that any situation in which there are too many in the room, too many of those who have to join in the toilets, are far worse than in beds and new facilities, where there are qualified and well - educated workers who care for them. Of course, these things need to go together, and I'm sure people are much quicker to recover from an illness if they enter a hospital where the place is not old and gone. Of course, caring for the infrastructure should be the priority of each nation, especially health and welfare matters. Because of the cost of running welfare community and modern hospitals, it is simply part of a need to make money for a building to be attacked. Of course, building a new national hospital for a small nation is not cheap, and even if one of the older buildings can be used, this obviously costs money. In my mind, this is simply a question of whether a head is willing to have a welfare community or if Iceland's future policy is placed in a community where the wealthier thrives at the expense of the chemical memory because it must not be paid to the community to the rhythm of their ability and the result is no money to work on projects that are needed for the success of the welfare community. I believe that the building of a new hospital is just an example of such a project, simply a project necessary to attack in order for our welfare community to thrive. I think that the way this is suggested, to set up a special building fund for the construction of a land hospital, where the income of a wealth tax, i.e. tax returns that come from the best in our society, as they are applied to 6. The bill, be both reasonable and reasonable. It can be done if the bill is approved at this fall council, that this building can be started and attacked, so that, after a few years, we have a new land hospital that should become an attractive workplace for health workers and a good place for those who need to use the hospital because of illness. It would also be an enormous part of promoting the welfare community, where those who need health care receive an acceptable home. So I hope this bill is approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u49	Madam President. We will discuss a bill on the construction fund of a Land Hospital that suggests that the construction fund of the Hospital will be funded by a wealth tax in 2017/2021. I think it's a very good way to implement what has been discussed for as long as possible, to build a new hospital, or to improve the building of a home, and to build up the core operations of the Land Hospital for the present time. I'm not sure that what is presented in a financial programme is enough to trigger these projects as it should be, it's just not enough money to be expected and there's no certain about the next few years as this looks right now. That's why we'll put this bill on the left, considering that this is a good way to finance the construction of a new land hospital. They all know the circumstances in there. I have been told, at 17 locations throughout the city, where I live in the capital area. It is unacceptable to work as such and expensive in business. The land hospital has grown to be very stable. There have been cases of fungal infections, and other matters, such as, of course, are not acceptable at the national high - tech hospital. Also, it is not acceptable when it comes to rebuilding the Land Hospital that it is necessary from year to year to maintain 3 billion, up to that and perhaps more, that could have been used in the hospital or in the new building. Therefore, these activities should no longer be motivated. This is a very good way to do so in a certain, safe step, not to get up in this material, as it seems, from the start of the present government. There's a lot of things playing into it. We know the hard struggle for staff at the National Hospital, whether it is doctors, nurses, medical staff, or other classes, that there has been a great struggle in the health sector, and there are working conditions in the national head hospital that also involve a lot of dissatisfaction between health professionals who work there and any circumstances that are relevant when people are involved in such matters as buying and sufficiency. All of this hangs together. As a nation, we cannot afford to lose out on a number of educated individuals, health - care professionals, whether a nurse, a nurse, a doctor, or any other staff working in our high - tech clinic or in other health institutions. The location has been examined, and I believe that the matter should be settled. I don't like the highest. The prime minister is now calling the matter as he has done, believing that it is not the point of promoting a person's understanding now but is not going to continue with it in the system. The decision has been made, and although it may always be said that it has been better to build a new land hospital once this has been considered a long time before I feel that we should live up to the conclusion that this nuclear hospital is to be built on Ring Way. In terms of the funding we have in the left green bid here, the wealth tax, they have been surmised, such as in the debate why those of this great estate should be placed under the construction of a new land hospital to serve all the people of the country. I think it is only natural that the wealthiest of the countries will come in there and that, of course, other people who don't pay capital taxes will continue to pay their taxes and duties, and this will benefit the welfare system, the more money is available then. Of course, all the citizens of the country are paying off the Hospital now and in the future. So I think this is something that those who have these great assets should be proud to be able to contribute to building a new land hospital quickly and safely. I have no doubt that the majority of the people who are bound to pay a wealth tax during those years will be happy to do so. I'm not gonna have any more words on this. I just think it's a big, big case that should be united by the council and can trigger this project and provide the end of it and be there with a sure financing so that the whole nation's work together for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u50	A respectable president. I recommend a synopsis proposal on behalf of the Council of Hearts, which reads: The General concluded to hide the Minister of Education and Culture to start working on a standard law at the public university in Iceland. The aim of the legislatures must make public college an acceptable choice for education that has the legal resources and support of the government. Work will take into account an arrangement that applies to the function of a people's university elsewhere in the north. Ministers offer the bill no later than the 2016 spring Summit This is the second time we've made this synopsis proposal. It was submitted late last assembly, and there is one positive report. The reason we do this is that we feel that it is important to make the environment of a people's university comparable to what is known elsewhere in the North countries and because people's schools are different and are to be part of the education industry in Iceland, we feel. Many Icelanders know the North American public schools, perhaps especially Denmark, as they are an approved alternative. Icelanders have attended there, and now we have a community college at Sufficiency, LungA, where there has been a very great job but there is always some uncertainty about school activity because financial contributions can be random and there is no law or order around the business. Although school has enjoyed favor, it is vital that we be able to plan ahead and spend our energy building up the school instead of being in constant contact with the authority and the Ministry to try to control our business and to gain strength. We witness in a report by the Ministry of Education and Culture, entitled All Study and Work, which was published 2012, which says, under the permission of a president: To meet the different needs and expectations of students and to cultivate and maintain their interest, the study needs a variety of teaching methods and modern productions of study material in elementary and high school. It is important to encourage students in their researchal and solutions and contribute to the initiative, criticism, and creative work of students. New media, which students use outside school, must be used to instill their interest in the study and increase the wide range of projects, such as in the form of multimedia.◯ In fact, the emphasis is being expressed at the education of a people's university, so we feel that the importance of a university in the education world is undisputed. It goes on to say that on May 21, 2007, the General Assembly agreed to a resolution brought by representatives of the Western Council's Republic, where the governments of Iceland, the Faeroe Islands, and Greenland were challenged to support the formation of North American People Colleges in these countries. With this suggestion, we suggest that the preparation of public legislation on the activities of public schools and the conditions and requirements needed to meet for the work permit and also define how monitoring is being conducted, how possible business routes are, and so forth. We suggest that in this regard it is wise to look to other northern countries for a model for national legislation, where they have been active for decades, even hundreds of years. We believe their strength is varied. Emphasis may be placed on art, sports, or whatever it is now, and it would just be a clean addition to an Icelandic leprechaun, school cover. We hope that the proposal will be accepted, but there is no objection to the Supreme Court. A minister of education is already preparing such legislation. There is one high school, and, of course, there should already be some work at the Ministry to secure a legal setting around that school so that other schools may open up in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u51	Mr. President. I'd like to say and mix up with myself in the discussion on this proposal for understanding people's schools, which I see on the list of shipping officials, which is made by a group of Bjart's future council. I find this proposal to be inconsolable, as it were. paritaprevir St Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir, Brynhildir, in his entropy speech, said that people's schools are different from traditional book or to-do schools. I simply agree that they are to be part of an education fleet in Iceland. I think the arrival of more of these schools, then, outside of the LungA on Seyverdir, simply has a good effect on Icelandic society. I think some of the students who do not find themselves in traditional schools might find themselves in public schools and, of course, those who already find themselves in traditional schools can also find themselves in these schools. I believe that increased knowledge, increased open vision, and increased insight into the most diverse issues are beneficial not only to the individual but simply to society. Without going to have any more words, I just want to say here and now that I'm very positive for this council mishap. I eagerly look forward to seeing what it will be, what kind of comments it receives, and what kind of comments it receives during the continued treatment of the council. As I say, I believe there is a good chance here to increase the variety of the Icelandic school system. With the institution of a community college, if they find a place, I think they'll be able to increase in the number of people who pursue further education.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u52	A respectable president. Thank you. A candidate for the speech and support, of course, agrees with each word. There is just one thing about this: that foreign students also come here, such as at the People's School of Sufficiency, so in the same way that we go abroad, this is also an opportunity for foreign students to come here. It's just very exciting, and nothing but positive. We decided to keep this one of our priorities, just so that they would have plenty of time to go into history and get reviews, hopefully as most, and also because there are other issues that you are interested in that are still farfetched. There is a need for this to be done so that you are positive that if you are not already working in the Ministry, then at least the suggestion can lead to pressing such a job. All I hope is that the matter will be well treated by the committee and supported here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u53	President. I recommend a proposal for the resolution of optional accounting against torture and other brutal, inhuman or disrespectful treatments or punishments by the United Nations. This is called OPCAT. The resolution presented is as follows, by permission of the president: ▪ The General concludes to commit the government to validate the European Parliament on December 18, 2002, and to sign for Iceland's contract against torture and other brutal, inhuman or disrespectful treatments and punishments approved at the UN General Assembly on December 18, 2002, as well as immediately starting its implementation here on land. President. The United Nations Convention on the ban on torture was fully validated by Iceland half in 1996. The contract obligates its Member States to take measures to carry out a strict ban on torture and other disrespectful treatments or punishments and measures to prevent such treatment from occurring. This arrangement suggests that the government will be committed to validate optional records with this agreement. The book calls for international and international surveillance of institutions that save people of liberty to resist the violation of the torture agreements. The book was signed on the part of Iceland in September 2003 by the then foreign minister of Iceland, in advance of validation. Since it has been no less than twelve years, the contract has not yet been validated and therefore has not been implemented in this country. The Protocol requires the monitoring of the individual person who is assigned to visit regularly agencies that save people of freedom in order to prevent torture or that other brutal or disrespectful treatment will continue. The monitoring should be two-fold, and the content of the Protocol indicates the establishment and activities of both national and international organisations and the commitment of Member States. According to the book, the International Committee is committed to regularly visiting the institutions of the Member States that save people of freedom and give national recommendations and tips on protection against torture and other brutal, inhuman and demeaning treatments or punishments. This committee is also assigned to be a national adviser on national monitoring systems, their organisation and activities, as well as to interact with the national follow-up organisation for counselling, training, etc. The national monitoring system intended for Member States needs to be able to perform regular testing on the treatment and management of individuals with a view to freedom and to recommend or advise the government on the better aspects of both implementation and legislation. The book specifically requires the obligation of the states to provide surveillance providers, national and international, access to emancipated persons and institutions, unlimited access to information on the number of liberty-like people at each institution, the number of such institutions and their location, all their information on their treatments and equipment, unlimited access to institutions and opportunities to private interviews with people of liberty. The book also points to the protection of those with the Rapporteurs and to provide information and is forbidden to use any form of punishment or to allow them to pay for any contact with the Rapporteurs. Member States have also under the Protocol to accept the recommendations and tips of both the national and foreign organisations on better subject matters, both for performance and for the implementation, and for communication, and for the inclusion of post-mortem changes. On the other hand, what needs to be done in the wake of the validation is legally guaranteed that international subcommittee on the defenses of torture can oversee it here and enjoy the rights of a country to which the book says. However, it is important to determine who should be appointed to conduct the national check-up that is required of the book and set the appropriate legal requirements. If we grow rich in validation, we'll have one year since our validation to decide how we'd like to conduct domestic surveillance and put it on the ground. In view of the length of time since the signing of the book, transporters feel that the validation is no longer possible. This creates a clear period of time for the work that needs to be started on the surveillance process. Most of the countries that we compare with us have already validated the accounting, including all the northern countries. In our neighboring countries, Denmark, Norway, Sweden, and Finland, citizens of the National Assembly have been legally authorized to conduct national OPAAT monitoring. A member of the Generals has, in effect, taken care of this observation in part here on the country, but entirely on her own initiative. However, the European Commission against torture stated in their recent report on Iceland that the Agency could no Tryggvi conduct regular Gunnarsson on the lack of funds and human resources. While not taking a direct view of who would be assigned to supervise the procedure, representatives of the II Parliamentis feel that this role will be entrusted to them, just as has been done in our neighboring countries. Its premise is that its increased responsibilities include increased financial support. President. As I mentioned earlier in my speech, the OPAAT book was signed for Iceland on 23 September 2003, 12 years ago. This signing includes the declaration of our will to the Icelanders, and therefore it is not a political issue. This proposal was also made during the last assembly of 144th, and a very positive committee opinion came from the three Council Committees. It was a board of administrations and surveillance, a General and Education Committee and a Foreign Affairs Committee. The UN Committee's comment on torture from July 8, 2008, describes concern that no legal surveillance has been set up to monitor institutions that will deprive the freedom - hungry people of this region and that the Committee will suggest that the optional publication will be validated as soon as possible. A report published in March 2013 by the European Minister of Ministers on the torture of the European Union, is requested for Iceland to validate the book and establish an independent surveillance system. Is this a priority in the report, in particular, the position of the inmates and other amateurs on improving prison affairs and repeatedly asking that the book be validated in order to ensure good and independent surveillance of institutions that save free-minded individuals. There was one suggestion, an adjustment made by the State Department, when the matter was taken up on the committee during the last assembly, and we took it into account when we decided to remask it. It is my sincere hope that this matter will be taken up quickly on the Foreign Affairs Committee, but I suggest that the proposal be applied to that committee simply because it is so short since the three members of the Senate were alone to agree on the importance of this agreement being validated. So I hope it's one of the issues we'll be able to complete in the next few months. I say again, this motion is going to go to sleep. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u54	V.E.G. President. Thank you. Birgitta Jónsdóttir's daughter for her talk. I am one of the partners of this proposal to conclude that the Allied Council shall appoint the Government to validate for Iceland for an optional book making on the United Nations Convention on torture and other brutal, unhuman or demeaning treatment or punishment, such as the consignment, approved at the UN General Assembly at the end of 1982 and Iceland signed on September 23, 1983, as well as immediately starting its induction on land. I believe that this agreement against torture and other cruel, inhuman or disrespectful treatment or punishment is made with more important contracts, and it is of utmost importance that among the nations there are rules on what to do and especially what not to do. This arrangement suggests that the government will be committed to validate an optional accounting on this torture contract. It's a little interesting when it comes to international contracts looking at the timeliness. According to one report, the United Nations Convention Against torture was adopted at the United Nations General Assembly in 1984 and was validated by Iceland on the part of 1996, so this is not a totally new case. However, it was adopted at the General Assembly of the United Nations in 2002 by an optional accounting on the torture contract that went into effect in 2006, signed by the then U.S. Minister of Foreign Affairs in September 2003, although in advance of validation. And now, 12 years later, we are discussing here at the council that this publication has to be valid. I always think it's a little strange how long it takes to finish things like this, like hell. In his entropy speech, Jónsdóttir Jontóttir, is not political in nature. So I would have thought that much of it was about getting things done, putting them in the process, and finishing them. However, the Protocol stipulates the supervision of an independent person, who is assigned to visit regular agencies that save free - minded individuals, in order to prevent cruel or disrespectful treatment or simply torture. Of course, a more sensitive group of people in what is more sensitive and what is most difficult to bear in front of their heads if these individuals find themselves in a position to be treated in some form of cruel or disrespectful treatment. That is why it is so important that the runways exist and are active and have a legal position. I find it extremely serious what is presented in a paper with the Congress resolution, which says, by permission of the Supreme Court. President: Since July 8, 2008, at Iceland's third report on the implementation of the torture contract, the Committee describes concern that no legal surveillance has been set up to monitor institutions that save people of freedom, and it encourages the Commission to ensure that the optional publication will be validated as soon as possible. But it's been a few years since, and I'm thinking that the people in this room are supposed to pull us together and accept this council plan. We're supposed to put the government in order to validate the optional booking and, in effect, to assume that, as I believe, a big step toward getting these matters straight and clear, we can more fully trust the position of free-looking individuals. I think we're most of us, if not all of us here agree that prison is meant to be incarcerated, not punished. To be effective in these matters, it is extremely important that those who serve penalties are not used ineligible treatment, and without me giving myself something to do so today, we obviously need all the courses that monitor that are not. I hope, therefore, that council proposal will be agreed here quickly and safely.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u55	V.E.G. President. I'm recommending case number number one. 8 p.m. 8. It is a bill for a legal adjustment of the terms on merit taxation, No. 50/1988, with subsequent changes. The movers and the person quoted here are a reason. Councilmen of Ásmundur Friðriksson, Páll Jóhann Pálsson, Haraldur Einar Einarsson, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir and Ásmundur Daðason Daldason. I will review some of the articles of the bill as they occur, and it can be said that the purpose is reflected in its laws, yet I will also review the existing report for further support and, to some extent, the content of the narratives received on this subject twice in the past presented in the accompanying report. The bill is now presented with three laws that I intend to read as they occur in the bill. 1st par. The bill reads, with President's permission: At 3 mg. 2.g. The law adds to the new figure, which then puts it: the service and sale of the athletes and youth members who are employed to provide funds for the nuclear functions of such associates, including fund raise for the sake of the social event and exercise of members, such as sales of advertisements, publishing operations, trading, restaurants, and sales or services. 2.g. It reads: The law adds another provision temporarily, as follows: During January 1, 2016, to January 1, 2017, athletes, young people and young people should be reimbursed at 100% of the worth tax paid by human work in the new building, rebuilding and maintenance of the athlete, through the design or monitoring of new building or by the maintenance of such facilities, as well as the maintenance of purchases for such projects. The reimbursement should be performed on the basis of the contribution of the accounts, at least every two months. The secretary gives further regulations on the implementation of the reimbursement. Section 3. It is a requirement that these laws be made at once. A respectable president. In other words, the laws reflect that any of the purposes we transporters are going to make these changes in the law of honorary taxes, but the report has to do with more logic and now I intend to take it for further consideration. This bill we discussed was previously submitted to the last legislation, i.e. 144, No. 411. So it was. The Economic and Business Committee was sent to the review of key stakeholders. The headlines are generally very positive and do what they say. Transporters fundamentally change the bill according to these indications. The biggest change from the last time it was submitted is that we are now growing up. This is well compatible with the objective of the bill, which aims to build up and strengthen the construction of workers in the development of child-adolescents activities, and then to promote and strengthen all the volunteer work on which they serve. Then, too, this is in harmony with the government's government covenant. I'm going to run down the headline of a youth friend. It is the collective review of YES and the KFUK and the Union of the Icelandic Boy Scouts. In addition to suggesting a change to the bill, the presidents stress the following, with the permission of a president: The idea of the bill is basically a welcome idea. It is noted that the bill must be fixed so that it also applies to approved youth groups, such as the KFUM & KFUK and the Boy Scouts, otherwise the differences in the resources of the bill. The present valuable tax environment is worthy of gifts for young people and the self - sacrificing work of volunteers. Thus, reviewers support the basic concept of the bill ▪ That it is important to support a youth and sports job that builds up its activities and resources on the self - sacrificing gifts of the public and the valuable work of volunteers. The bill is a positive step towards the above. Then there are references and calls for changes, for the bill is not restricted to sports companies but essential to other approved youth organizations, such as the work Boy Scouts, KFUM and KFUK, as shown in this review. The bill involved discrimination, in the opinion of a childhood partner, as it was originally. For example, the design of the chalets was distinguished from the structure of the Boy Scouts. Such discrimination does not work out and violate basic ideas of reasonableness and equalism of people who act in the same ideal. In my review of this report, it is noted that during the years following a crash, the government was responsible for all working in which individuals were encouraged for maintenance and new projects by giving them an opportunity to reimburse the cost of reimbursement. The project did not include youth and sports members, which could be said to have landed between ships and docks. For example, the project did not succeed in a new lake forest but, at the same time, reached the cabins that individuals were building on the other side of the fence. ▪ Work is an example. With the bill, we view the series as now the sports and youth activities. I'm still reviewing this review. I mentioned earlier what follows: A major shortage of real estate maintenance. Like sports companies, property, renewal, and maintenance will become more and more expensive in the movement of clients. Increased requirements for safety and bioavailability have to be noted, and after the collapse, many maintenance projects have had to be suspended. In the wake of the collapse, gambling has seriously affected the maintenance of real estate. The need for maintenance, however, is not diminished over time; the problem is simply brought upon those who accept the laws of the land in the years to come. They also believe that in the bill there is an important motivation and positive effect on societies and employment, as well as an example: With 5 million in maintenance of a social club today, less than a million of them go directly to the government fund. It honors individual gifts for the project. If the bill succeeds, it may be planned to develop a member of the organization that we're working for at least 20% more than they'd have imagined. And if the bill, as suggested by the law, includes an important incentive for increased driving force in youth, both incentive to build up and also increased use of funds for maintenance and renovation of social homes and employment. It would also be an injection into your job life, even though this is not your primary objective. They insist on the importance of correct definitions and thus suggest that the important basis for the progress of the bill is that sports and juvenile society are properly defined. But in the bill, as it was suggested for the first and second time, it was based on the fact that Iceland's Industry and Olympic Associations, but comparable standards exist directly on acceptable childhood societies. This requires that surveillance companies be members of the youth sector. Therefore, a separating problem should not stop the bill's progress or be accompanied by the modification form in the reporting process. As I told you before, we've been reacting to the bill by altering the bill since it was last submitted, and so to speak, we have taken a heart for the reasoning that is presented in my review. In fact, there are many factors that support the whole matter and see what it is. The evidence shows that this change requires equal control between sports members and other recognized childhood members so that the action involved in these changes will not only result in sports work but also lead to other youthful activities. Thus, it supports even more fully the objective of the Government Treaty, which, by permission of a president, says: The government stresses the importance of sports, hobbies and youth and integrating play and study whenever possible. Support should be made that as many as possible can find something to do with sports, art, art, or social work. Such a job will develop and have high prophylaxis values. Thus, the evidence presented in a report with an initial suggestion that the importance of sports for the youth of the country is equally applicable to the work of other youths. Thus, it is assumed that with youthful society in this proposal, this would refer to the understanding of juvenile nationalities No. 70/2007, covering such associates and similar social organizations, who are also accepted into the society of young people. Such the criteria of the Member State are comparable to what is stated in a paper with the original bill, which assumes that a member of an ISI team member will be involved. A respectable president. Originally, the movers presented the case in the form of a synonym of a review of the added tax environment of the sports movement. It was the 143th legislature, No. 487. Here the case is presented for the third time and for the second time as a bill to legalize a change in the law of merit taxation, No. 50/1988, and aims to change the cost tax environment of the sports movement. The change is twofold, assuming that athletes and young people should be paid 100% of the worthy tax paid by human work in the new building, rebuilding and maintenance of the athlete, by design or monitoring of innovation or by the maintenance of such facilities, as well as by the means of remuneration for such projects. As clearly indicated in the legal matter, the reimbursement should be performed on the basis of the contributions and at least every two months. On the one hand, the bill is presented for the development of volunteer work and for the support of such work. It suggests that services and warehouses used to raise funds for the core activities of sports and youth society, such as sales of advertising, publishing, business dealings, restaurant sales, and sale products or services for the building of funds for the operation, will be released from a valuable supplementary tax. The report has established the importance of organized youth activities, and national interest in sports and other youth activities need to be noted. Many studies confirm the preemptive value of sports and participation in organized sports activities reduce the likelihood of any abnormal behavior. Young people who are not involved in organized sports are more likely to use drugs than those who are active participants in such activities. Research has also shown that participation in sports has positive effects on learning results, self - image, self - esteem, body image, health, and general well - being. In this way, the chances of organizing the activities of sports partners and their social place in each society are likely to result in national health benefits, such as the pressures of the health system where studies have also shown that increased exercise reduces the occurrence of serious health problems. This has shown positive effects on school and a job market in the form of fewer lost hours, fewer days of illness, and more production. And there is also the progress of our achievements and the land fairs it brings to the progress of commercial and tourism, not to mention the self - image and pride of the nation at the best of our time. Therefore, it is important to examine the economic importance of sports and the effectiveness of organized sports activities on the side of the movement in a wide variety of contexts. We must ask ourselves, " How do we view the role of the State in the building up of sports and youth activities? ' To some extent, it turns to promote and ensure the best setting and management of organized, juvenile and sports activities for the benefit of the public. This bill complies with such roles and remains in full agreement and supports the objective of the Government Treaty, which puts special emphasis on the importance of sports, hobbies, youth, and integration of the game and study wherever possible. The report also reviews the definitions of sports companies and sports activities and quotes the guidelines of the head of state taxation, which includes the following definition of a sports club or a youth society that is referring to a group that has developed sports in its policies and has been allowed access to the sports movement by involvement in a local or sports network. Chapter 2 of the song The National Olympian Union of Iceland (ISI). Thus, national tax managers in the exercise of athletes performed within the EU's member organisations of the Iceland's Olympian Union. When it comes to earning taxes, but we're here on a merit tax so that in the interest of today, sports companies are considered to be the exception as long as they earn their profits solely to the public goods and have the sole goal of their own approval, as per Article 4. income taxation. This is in the report for further emphasis on what is meant by the purpose and definition of an athlete's club. It stipulates the economic purpose in the approved social group and allows for any time for earning money to be available to the owners. All profits thus need to be spent for the public good. Public sports activity is thus considered to be a public debate in that sense. As a sport, the head of state taxation refers to any physical training with the exercise of athletes, which is generally practiced within the Iceland and the Iceland's Olympian Association. In Sports, No. 64/1998, marks sports as any form of physical training designed to enhance physical and mental resources, health and health. The routine activities of an athlete's partner are excluded from the value of extra tax according to the 5th strategium of 3.mg. 2.g. worth of taxes. It means, more dignified President, that sports companies don't collect taxes that play out sports and, on the other hand, they don't get pulled away from tax because of the purchase of resources for the operation. All sports companies in a position to exercise and practice sports, including social fees and exercise fees, will be subject to the card. Despite being spared by sports companies, they are prized tax on their athletic functions if they sell products or treaties for jobs or for competition with commercial companies. For the sake of credit service, a advertising dealer, including so - called collaboration agreements, publishing work, trading business, restaurant sales, and so on, would be considered to be a source of financial resources. Then there is a value tax obligation from your own service, such as cleaning house business, etc. This bill suggests that all sports company sales will be prevented from paying a valuable extra tax. I'm going now, a respectable president, rather to set up the goals involved with this bill and for the purpose that it is intended to work on, this bill will be a law. The foundation for intensive sports in Iceland has long been the participation of volunteers and the activities of the sports movement still depends largely on the volunteer work. Many people assist in the sports movement without accepting a reward for their work. Governments, committees, and advice assist in the implementation of sports events, contests, and other activities and fundraisers. One of the most positive factors in this work is the increased social attendance of parents and their support of their children's sports activities. As matters are concerned, the responsibility of the executives and other volunteers on the front and reporting signs, tax returns, and public fees may be high and even greater than most volunteers realize. Officials can impose severe penalty on public fees, and even imprisonment may be maligned. Likely, if they were fully aware of these responsibilities and informed of the laws that are actually to be used, they would be reduced to the number of volunteers in the sports movement. It is vital, therefore, that the lawgiver responds and immediately stimulates the environment for all volunteer work and thus contributes to the immediate participation of parents in the child - rearing work that the sports movement and, in fact, all youth activities provide for children and adolescents. The number of employers is growing, both in the number of people who receive the definition of achievement sports and in the public health - related group is just as important as it is in public sports. In support of this, the number of practicers, as a proportion of the number of nations, has increased from 19.7% in 1994 to 27.2% in 2011. There is an increasing number in groups of children and teenagers and older citizens. Thus, the need for more monuments for this growing population is growing ever more. Many athletes have a prominent appeal, as noted in a number of reviews when the issue was presented for the second time in spring. At that time, it was a prominent call to respond to this increased number and to add to the facilities to make sure that all could enjoy the best facilities and equipment in both the exercise of sports and the entire social activity. In many areas, the work is cracked and the need for the maintenance and development of new workers is needed. As we look to this building up, social activities are just as important. We see a very positive trend in the growth of parental participation and in all the activities and games of young people. In spite of noble goals, it is likely that such a subject, in fact, is expected to conflict with political goals. This is certainly so, then, that simple tax system goals, including those with a reduction in the size of the environ ment, and a reduction in the quality of the taxpayer population, i.e. Of course, at the time of linked activities and competitive management, the value of taxes, for the income of the state's funds, can increase misunderstandings. Comments such as this were received from the head of state tax, business agencies, and the firms of employment last time the case was submitted. I appreciate it so much because of the already proposed debate that it is not really a class of catechism in its nature, and here it is tested by the assessment whether the weight outweighs, the goal of supporting child - welfare and the volunteer work that is on which the activity in question is based or the goals we are looking at in terms of the tax system itself. The authorities and I are prepared to examine all the details and to reason on the issue of change. The Economic and Business Committee. In this context, the position of the individual person to whom this means the tax system must be viewed is different. For example, there was a very clear review from Golf Community Iceland, which is a large movement with some 17,000 registered partners and 65 golf clubs around the country, followed by the second largest speciality in Iceland's Ithlette and Olympic Union. The Golf Union celebrates a local bill, which is made clear in its review, and includes the complete support and support of the human working part of the bill, i.e. Remuneration of the worth of human activities tax and, in effect, encourages the committee to take the step to the full and, in fact, suggest that only temporary regulations be passed to one year, as provided in the bill, will be replaced by this law in the future by the terms of a valuable tax. So that's an assignment, then. As an example, economic and business committees are discussing this. At the same time, Golf Union calls attention to the fact that athletes are built and built by more people than sports and youth, and it could cause violations of an equation if there are various rules for reimbursement in the management sector of the athlete's team. Hence, it would be reasonable to reimburse the proposal in general for an athlete, regardless of the sector plan of the person responsible for the building. I think it is important that the committee examines these indications as well as the representatives of the soccer movement, which is then the largest in ISI. In all comments from the representatives of the sports movement, the national importance of organized sports and social activities was emphasized that the savings that improved the health of the health of the health system multiplied in proportion to the financial resources provided in this category and that the appeals of reimbursement in the reimbursement of a tax on performance and thus reimbursed several times in smaller expenses for health and health. That is, of course, one of the main objectives of this bill, as I came in earlier. Because of 1st. The bill, which suggests that all activities of sports partners will be avoided by a valuable extra tax, in order to form Iceland's Golf Association and its members, are important to ensure that the movement is in good agreement with the job and to wonder whether it is not possible to approach the government's objective to simplify the cost of the tax system and thus achieve the aim of improving the environment of the athlete's movement. In terms of the view that lifting the authority's responsibility and other volunteers on retail and tax returns, it might be wise to consider raising the limits of registration on the current credit sheet. Witnessing to the different positions of stakeholders can be cited by the reviews of a number of parties in the soccer movement and the Knatts Sports Association itself, focusing on the implementation of the bill. For one thing, it shows that strong support for the construction of athletes is invaluable, and history teaches that by such structure and increased education, great results are being achieved. Experience also shows that the results are equally important in smaller and larger communities. It is therefore a powerful policy to improve facilities throughout the country. To meet the high cost of participation, it is necessary to work hard at selling a variety of goods, to support the costs of participation. The authorities are well aware of this activity, and it is our opinion that it should be recognized by the importance of this procedure, by the exception of the cost tax and the simplicity of the management environment of the athlete society. It would be encouraging to these individuals if the authorities confirmed the importance of this operation by means of an exception tax. A respectable president. We had a fine meeting of the directors of sports companies from across the country, and they charged, including the U.S.A. in conclusion, that it would be an enormous interest issue for the entire sports movement that the State backed up it by improving legislation in order to strengthen the volunteer work and to meet the growing demand for mobilization. They made a joint declaration of that content. The bill is in full agreement with the highest government contract. Governments, as I entered, as well as the relevant sports policy and focus on the streamliness of the sports movement and the goals of public health. It is our hope that the matter will have further thought - provoking discussions. The Economic and Business Committee will proceed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u56	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson for history. I'm not exactly opposed. I just want to use this opportunity to describe my joy and the full support of the cool case the senator has presented. This is a very positive subject, and as he says in his talk, it is very important that sports and youth society - it is very positive that stories and youth society have responded there, for all activities of children in sports and youth have been preconceived. It knows you, and it's also seen by working around children and teenagers for many years, it's a very positive influence, so I like to celebrate the structure proposed by the bill, it's that upbuilding. Those who engage in sports or in youth activities, very many of them, are often well - organized individuals with good study results and all goes hand in hand. You can also look forward to the growing age of the nation, the growing number of older citizens in the community, and the need to be greater for the building of workers for sports or youth service. I would think it would have a positive influence on the public health of the country, as it were, i.e. Whether it is the objective of the bill to improve human health and to promote the good work done by sports and youth communities around the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u57	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Arnardóttir Arnard's daughter for her input into the matter. Hv. A senator named an increasing group of older citizens and public health; of course, one of the objectives of the bill is to build a structure that can be used in a variety of ways. That's very important. Of course, we're doing child-adolescent work to the primary objective, and we're putting great emphasis on it, but with the arrival of football halls--I could probably keep a long number of their parts in what turns to achievement football - have become a gang of older citizens who use them in the early morning palaces and that's well. When we're building these structures, just in the long run, it's all social. As I came into my speech, this environment has changed completely, in sports, in youth, and in youth, toward socializing. Parents'involvement in such organized activities is far more than ever, and we need to consider this when building these structures. This is actually the family meeting place, much of it, today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u58	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Yeah, we really agree, me and what. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson, about this. I now need to look only at my own home, the Ak Arane, where a soccer house was built, or a soccer house. Hv. A senator spoke of the many uses of such workers. There you see older ones walking along and moving along, having a positive effect on their health. I'm going to use this opportunity to express my full support for the situation. I sure hope so. The Council's Economic and Business Committee, and they're what they're doing. Councilmen looking for all ways to make this very positive case, which is one of the PUBs for this council, will become a reality, for it has positive factors and influences for all, young and old.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-14-5.u59	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct a change in the insurance policy and the operation of pensions, which is once again submitted. It has been suggested several times before, and most people are better aware of this from the 1st transporter, who was during the last term and, unfortunately, is not with us here. ex-wife. Blöndal Bömvell, who had a seizure. Parliamentaries from various categories in the council with them on the subject. I do not intend to give a long talk on this matter, but I would like to encourage those interested in pensions to look at the report, which is extremely successful and extremely interesting because it reviews the history of the pension fund in short terms, where these ideas have come from, and why it is being carried out as it is today. It is important, however, that all of us are aware that being with the Icelandic pension system is a big loan. We are one of six people in OECD that we can say they have some property in a pension fund. This makes our competition so much stronger than others. The bill does not focus on passing over what is now, it has to focus primarily on sharpening certain basics that I'm going to cross here. In 1st. specifically stated: A pension fund is the property of its funds. The terms or rights of the Treaty under the terms of insurance protection are owned by the rights of the Member State. It clearly states what I think most people would agree that is in word but perhaps out of practice, that the source of this society has the rights he gets by paying for that pension. Two. is a pension fund required to inform us about the earned and upcoming pension rights of the relevant bank and its share in clean property in the payment of pension. Then we find 3rd C.E. make it clear that a business associate will vote according to his property and rights. It's all at the same well, i.e. to sharpen the property of the pension fund, to be owned by the financial institutions, to choose the government and to become the nature of the matter, according to the wealth they have, and the wealth of their possessions in the sum of their pensions. Perhaps someone might say: " Shouldn't it be unnecessary to place such emphasis on the fact that the individual knows how much he or she has in a pension fund? The thought behind it is simply to sharpen their understanding of the pension fund so that people can be aware of the amount of money involved. It is not possible for us to have a pension when we are in pension age, and that is certainly not so in all the countries we compare with. It certainly was not that way in the past. It is reviewed in the report when the first pension fund was founded, the Penitentiary Fund of the state's staff in 1921 C.E., and its roots return to 1851. In order for people to be aware of the value of pensions, the nature of the matter must be understood. You can't explain it better than people can get information about their pensions and possessions. This case has a parallel to that in Iceland there are pension funds and has existed for a long time, where exactly this basic prince is present and has made them quite well. However, there have been cases where pension funds have not worked well with this arrangement, but the same is true of the pension fund that still represents employers and employees in charge. I think it's very important that we finish this case, but this is the first Congress case proposed by the Independence Party to this council. It is very important that the matter be treated for our approval, but at least it is very important that the discussion be taken care of. I think it's particularly important for everyone, but especially young people, that they realize the importance of pensions and the rights they get by paying for that pension fund. It encourages saving and encourages understanding of the economy and the importance of long - term savings. It also makes it more acceptable, that I think, about the pension fund when people understand their nature and what it means for each individual to have the rights of a pension fund. A respectable president. I'm not gonna have this any further. I encourage those people who are interested in these matters to study the report and the accompanying documents of the book written by Pétur Blöndalur. This was one of his struggles that he put enormous employment into. Blöndal Bögal's hard work was done wholeheartedly and with great knowledge. Although he knew many things well, Pétur's strength was also well - known as an insurance mathematician in this matter and in other similar matters. A respectable president. I suggest that this case be referred to the Economic and Business Committee.
