ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u1	A respectable president. At this morning's job front committee meeting, Congress resolutions were issued, adjustments to the frame program. The proposal suggests that four options should be added to the recommendation at the highest level. The Environment Minister made a suggestion for the council in the fall, but the minister made a suggestion in accordance with the laws on a framework of a procedure. But now the process is unrecognized, and the proposal to put Hag Sea into a colony is in doubt a violation of the framework law. I would like to say, a respectable president, and wish for a stand to be taken so that this proposal is unacceptable because it is not based on current laws on this process and therefore feels that this proposal has to be proposed. And for this kind of proposal to get the work done and done here, the management sector needs to submit an adjustment of the laws on the framework and change the process because this is not based on the current law.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u2	A respectable president. I feel that we only need to discuss it here, and I think the president should pause at this meeting and only review it with the council leaders, how men associate with law. The decision is being made on the job committee, of the greater part, to shun legislation in which we have created ourselves to be created to make decisions about the activation and protection decisions in this country on natural bulbs. This is a decision to take Hag Lake into change options for one priming option. Standard water is an option that is not fully explored by the project management. As a result, the Management Board has never completed a discussion of Hag Lakes and Water Water Waters and, as a result, has been decided to cast into the oceans the laws on the protection and use of natural habitats in this country. They don't care about what we've set up to do about how we do things because if people have already decided that they want things different, there's no law. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u3	A respectable president. The situation here is the same as the case that has been discussed in these last days. It is totally disrespectful to the government's object for legal procedures, decisions, and handling things. How can it be, when it is very clear in the review of a task management committee, that it is strictly contrary to laws on a frame plan to provide Hag water activation in a novelty category, to decide on a professional committee to ignore such comments and such warnings, as well as to resolve adjustments in order as nothing has been done? So, are they just gonna pretend it's nothing when they're told by the local authorities that they're actually breaking the law and moving forward? Is disrespect absolute, not just when it comes to controversies and agreements with the European Commission, but also in this? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Doesn't it matter what the law says? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u4	Mr. President. The government has given its Council its interpretation of the values of the Algiene conclusions, has often covered it in the media, and is acting in the power of that interpretation. When that opinion came up and was presented to the Council, the highest levels were called. The General's president, after a legal hearing from the General's office, to identify that interpretation. But there is a conflict between the two interpretations. The President of the Generals, as I say, called for this legal review and received a little over a year ago, but there is still no doubt who in that pooled president of the World Congress agrees with what he disagrees, if anything. Now it is not the role of the President of the Generals and the Presidency to give the members of Congress and the nation their formal interpretation of the values of the National Congress when interpretation of the Council's Office conflicts with the interpretations made available to the Council and to the public, interpretations contrary to the traditions and agreements that have been held by the Republic's Office, interpretation of the procedure of the traditional government of the country, in order to increase power at the expense of the Council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u5	A respectable president. I think it's serious when it happens. Councilmen here express their concern that more of the employment committees do not comply with the law. This has been reasoned because the work programme has never completed a study on Water Water Waters activation. No matter what. The head of the professional road committee calls up a lot here, he can't change that fact. It must be a natural requirement for the Senate to exist and to be legalized as to whether this execution is a law on the framework. The matter cannot be concluded while this question is alive. I might say that a professional health committee has obtained sufficient data to prove that this law is correct. I can't see that in the discussions I've heard about it and in the evidence I've seen. It must be necessary that this matter not even be placed on the program until this legal opinion has been established. There is also some doubt about other activation initiatives sent to project management, but in the case of Hagwater activation... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u6	In general, the president wants to state that it is such that the council and members of Congress are reserved for a very large right to make adjustments in the affairs of the council at one time. However, the president has not been in a position to look into this matter specifically and chooses to have time to consider that matter. But in general, the president wants to justify what he said earlier, that the council is reserved for a very rich right to make adjustments in individual matters for the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u7	President. Work on a frame plan lasted more than two decades. In an effort to make reconciliation for the protection and use of natural areas, tens of them worked together. More than a portion of the job committee throws that job out of the table with its proposals. But as the head of the Independence Party said last night: The greater part suggests that there are laws at odds with the law, and I hope that the president, when he considers that matter, as he said here--which I thank him for he intends to do--see the position of the project management in the process, who it is if the Allied agree to this proposal for more than a part of the employment board. I'm waiting for the highest. President looking into it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u8	A respectable president. It seems that at this council, we are constantly discussing the role of the council and particularly the relationship of the Generalis with the government. I'm sorry about this development. We should be discussing matters materially and when we have the opportunity to do so. Because we are busy talking about the form, we face a very serious problem. Now I know it's very easy for the government and its followers to blame the government, but this is the General, it's not a government council. We're all heads of state here. We're all here to talk about these matters, and when we get up and down at the Council all the time, so that we don't get any harder words used, I don't know where we're going. It was now anticipated that this week would be under discussion on how we will serve at the General Assembly with this government. And now, once again, something new will happen when we need to discuss this even more. When's it going to end, Mr. Honorable President?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u9	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. For the President to have decided to look into the position of this adjustment and to agree that it is not working here on the schedule any other than the results or some kind of answer to certain questions. The first is, in fact, whether it is possible to propose a synonym, which contains one priming option, then only the adjustment proposed into five priming options. Is it possible to count the adjustment proposed, or is there a new proposal? It's about the political part of the case. However, it is whether this is a legitimate case, i.e. when it is known that Hag water activation has never been overcome, neither by the 2nd or by the 3rd step of the framework, whether this is in accordance with current legislation. It is the material passage that must be considered at the highest level. President. [[The president calls.]] I stress that this diagnosis needs to be established before the council can discuss the matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u10	Mr. President. All the work of the greater part of this framework proposal is a disgrace. First, the matter will be sent to the wrong members of the council. There is power in the hall to send the case brought by the Environment and Resource Minister to the litigation of environmental and resource ministers to the employment board. Now we all know why. Then there's all the professional processes and practices paradoxed, contrary to the spirit and the content of the law on the framework. In fact, it is now proposed for activation, which has never been assigned to a task management programme, which is a clear violation of the Law on the Framework Programme. It would be minimal, then, for the majority of the part to face it and to move a bill with the adjustment proposal that, despite its regulations and those in the Law on the Framework Plan, the handler should be activated to engage in the activation of Lake Hagah. You see, Mr. President, we have an old handshake for the big business.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u11	President. It's not just one thing, it's all. It is somehow, President, that this is a form of the rite of honor that the Parliament's votes are not in effect unless it's after the government's suitable policy. I would have wanted the President of Generalis to have clearly defined Generalis's position yesterday. I don't think there's an interpretation of what the president said, but it's been made clear that, for example, a foreign minister interprets the word of the president in a very different way than many members of Congress do. I find that it is absolutely clear what the Generals'position is about the executive authority, and I don't feel that we can operate here until it is cleared up.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u12	A respectable president. As noted, more than a part of the work programme as modified or planned to be changed from the Commission this morning is being conducted. One kind of put the sound, I have to admit, that it has come a long way to the greater part of the employment committee, and apparently, hopefully, both the board of directors, are going to run it through a break in the framework. There are five activation options inside, two who have not gone through a legal process, have not been put down, that is, Steflund and Lake Hag. Many questions remain, and they cannot be answered, as we have already seen. Chairman of the Commission, through the environmental assessment of performance. [[The president calls.]] Action environmental assessment has never canceled activation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u13	A respectable president. I'd like to thank the president for his words here, that he'd consider himself in a material way as to whether these changes are taking place above his head. In this regard, I believe it is necessary to remind the President that the framework established by the General Assembly shall be covered in the rules of methodology, as was done by a frame plan and the capacity to add benefits to the Senate resolution proposals is not unlimited. Here it has been observed and it is to remind you that Hagwater activation has never been treated, either in part 2 or 3 of a frame design, and is therefore unconcerned and cannot be opposed if someone is to respect the law otherwise. Then I must call for a proposal to make for Hag Lake to be proposed first, to make a legal adjustment, and to the proposed concierge of two discussions at the council, not the only debate on a proposal that is not required to be accepted.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u14	The president wants to justify what he said in the past: It is in general that members of Congress are reserved for a very rich and unambiguous right to make changes in individual matters. Because, in particular, this speculative provision, which has not yet been seen by members of the committee or by means of adjustments, wants the president for good work, has the position to consider the matter but to reiterate the widely accepted general view of the unambiguous rights of the senators to make adjustments.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u15	A respectable president. It is very good to hear the word "stirring " in the interests of good work in their behalf. Sadly, the matter we are talking about here cannot be said about paying off the employment committee in sums up. It is not a matter of excommunication, that the law is being violated, so it is not just disrespectful to decisions made by the Council in its declarations and resolutions, but it is actually a law breaking. This means that there are no groups in progress if this is done, if it's not a reservation, a waiting party or a colony, it's all under control. A professional health care committee, if this is the case, can decide to activate anywhere in the country. It's all under control, and it's only made up of a suggestion. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson. That's just not how things are set here. Senator. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] I'm sorry, it's not like this. It's not in your hands, you can't decide. You see, Iceland is not territory... [[Name the article of the law they're breaking.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u16	A respectable president. Yesterday, we got a hell of a lesson on how men handle Congress. They don't seem to matter if it's the highest. Ministers believe otherwise. Today, we receive a lesson in how humans associate with the laws that we have established at the Council, how we deal with certain issues, and the procedures we take in making professional decisions. Here we learn that their actions are of no importance and that such laws are ignored. That's what they're doing here. Hence, people now ask: Why should we be confident that laws made, such as government finance, and those who watch to make laws about the future, if the driver makes a decision that something else will happen to him, that this process does not have to be followed? That's what's being sent a message about here, this government doesn't care about a law-enforcement procedure if it feels otherwise. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u17	A respectable president. I'm gonna put one idea at a time. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson. He can take the highest. A good example for the minister of foreign affairs, written letters, sent it to activation companies in Iceland and authorized them to operate on Hague Lake. [[Foreground on: Yes.]] Yeah, let's say why. Senator, this is a way of pleasing him and the prospective man who stands next to him now, the highest. Secretary of state.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u18	The honest thing is...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u19	Is that not just honest? You can use similar reasoning to the highest. Secretary of state used it in his own case. It's in his opinion of ◯common sense, as he said, 'It's all of this, '- there's something to do about it, and then the government's got to do it to a greater part, so there's nothing to pay a vote. Have we not come to this place with all this meeting? I'll leave this as an idea for what happened. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson is wondering. Does he need to consult with the council? Don't you think he'd want to go with his friends and activate them? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u20	Mr. President. In some ways, it would be a mere government. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson simply wrote a letter to the recruiter, saying that despite all the laws of any kind, they could activate at Hagah Lake. Period. You see, that's how we like it. That's perfectly clear in 3 mg. Section 3. the law on the protection and energy efficiency programme that it covers the costs of the project management. There is as clearly a violation of the law as there may be any suggestion that this particular activation option is moving - in what? Moving into a framer class. If so, it would be far better to leave the frame plan alone and show your hand straight. That's what the other part is supposed to do, don't disguise it in some professional process, that this is going to come up with a frame plan, and they'll do something about it. It doesn't, it's just that old handshake in behalf of the priming and industrial interests, nothing else, through his apocalyptic form at the Generals', eh? hv. John Gunnarsson. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u21	A respectable president. Just for further enforcing for words of the highest order. A president earlier on the rich right of senators to make adjustments, I agree with the Supreme Court. President on this matter, but the court isn't unlimited. Congress officials must not make a legal adjustment to the synopsis proposal for a subject otherwise ordered by law. 3 mg. Section 3. a law on a frame plan says that only upcoming applications can be set, which have been discussed by project management. This has not been done in the case of Hagwater activation. It is just as absurd to agree that a council would take a change in terms of Lake Hags like allowing water. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson to move a change of motion to 2nd. on a frame plan to allow drunk driving. It is equally absurd because the case, exactly as the classification of activation initiatives, is otherwise set by law and it is not at the power of senators to make adjustments... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u22	President. What's happening now is the result of the president's permission of Congress to undermine government sovereignty. I challenge the members of the Management Board to think very carefully about what they are participating in here. This is an obstacle to the synopsis, whether or not it is a resolution approved by last council or last council, no interpretation is under cover as long as this increase is in control. And then the other half shall be hired by Jón Gunnarsson in the lead and sent out a letter to show the will of the more part, because there is no Congress, but the majority of it. [[The president calls.]] The big part is in charge, and he's in charge. [[The president calls.]] How can such an institution be respected? [[The president calls.]] You've taken the respect of this institution, Mr. President, and it's a shame.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u23	Mr. President. I'm interested in having a word with the chairman of the budget board, anyway. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, for news that the media has managed to reduce the Ministry of the past few days of the most extraordinary money-funded Ministers in propaganda for themselves of public tax. This makes it clear that the Ministry of Internal Affairs has paid the consulting firm Argus over 2.4 million. K. For media advice about the leak problem. The Minister of the Interior has guaranteed 2.4 billion. K. tax expenditures to protect oneself from leakage through the State Department. Another 1 billion. K. with legal advice to the Lex Law firm. However, the internal legal advice of the Ministry in that matter was not lacking. The police officer in the capital area, which, of course, makes public money, has spent nearly 900 of your time. K. - In what? For advice on leaking of the site, to some extent, and to some extent, due to the failure of the police themselves, leaks of personal details when the agricultural revolution was published. It is not as good as the Department of Business and Development has spent nearly 2 billion. K. - These are all numbers without credit - for what? In what has the Ministry of prosecuting and innovation bought advice from a town of 2 billion. K.? Yes, because of the farewell bill that the Minister has decided will not be delivered. It's well worth the money. And counseling for the natural pass, up to 1,300 you. K. Someone who was still still born, and everyone realized that they would never be finished. [[Up front.]] Yet public funds are wasted in this way. I'd like to ask the chairman of a legal committee, which at times is a matter of responsible financial management: Does she consider this justified treatment of public funds? What are the financial resources that the Ministry uses in private propaganda for the Ministers? [[The president calls.]] Is it a special trust? And what does that say? A senator, among other things, as a representative of the budget?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u24	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon for the inquiry. At the beginning, I think that it was never compiled what the budget due to Icesave back then was, in fact, a great deal when it happened. A senator was a minister of finance, so to speak. [[Hairsick in the conference hall]] [[Up front.]] But now there's been a change of government as we know it, and then it's all... [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u25	The President's asking for a sound in the Senate Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u26	All the routine work that used to be done in the Ministry has become very suspicious. But that is, in the spirit of the groups now in a position of government, and it must just have it. [[Up front.]] I just want to point out that the U.S. U.S. Marshal's agent was having a thorough interview on the state TV last night, where he was reviewing his having members of Congress too young. In the past, old senators had to be disposed of because they were so corrupt. [[Come in...]] So the Senate called and the political parties were renewed, such as the forward movement team, which renewed its entire council. [[Up front.]] [[Answer the senator.]] Well, I guess we're so inexperienced that now we need to start recruiting special... The Claus of the Assembly Hall. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u27	The President again asks for a sound in the Senate Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u28	... a special member of the Ministry to help the person in the field ministry deal with the job, and that's good. [[Up front.]] I can agree with the U.S. Marshal. This is exactly part of it, I think. And as for that as a matter of course. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon asks, of what financial advice is being taken, I can't answer that, but I don't make any comment that the Ministers are buying help out in town, whether it's in public contacts or lawyers especially in view of the fact that if the Ministry stays within financial resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u29	V.E.G. President. At the end of this hall, we have repeatedly discussed Generalis's position, and we are doing so even today, with attitudes and confidence in the council, and with the handling of matters at the council. After the collapse, a detailed discussion on the role of the Generals was conducted, in connection with the General Report, where the result was to strengthen the office of the Parliament to the Commission. There was a lot of talk about reducing the Ministry. Today, after a new government repeated the increase in Ministership, even monopoly, which has appeared in amazingly primitive methods of the government of the past. In addition, there is suggestions that have gone that way. We have seen prime minister's Committee on the Management Board asking for a warrant so that he can determine the location of the institutions. Fortunately, we are talking about electrical laws that were able to change, since a system plan, a huge plan, was not meant to be arranged for the council. We're talking about a proposal from the highest level. Foreign Minister for the transfer of the Development Agency directly under his authority, he oversees the Agency. We're talking about social security, as Ministers of Social and Housing, to determine where a new institution is located. All of this has already been for the treatment of the council. We're talking about a high school work plan that's been discussed, and that's why they can be consulted at the council, they're going out, and they already have their decision. It's all in the same book, they're trying to get rid of the international General Assembly of Iceland. It's not called democracy. It's called democracy. It's democracy. Then we get the latest, it's informative and important for information here in this council that, for example, we get information about the event - we know what the government opposition was like - members of the council were in the matter under discussion. Let's hope we find the following answers. Did they get to know about this letter in the same hour as it was announced in a foreign suspect or earlier? Do we get all the details on how it was carried out in the letter that occurred between the EU and the minister where the Council is tight but the representatives of the EU sit at the table? [[The president calls.]] Further questions such as this need to be answered if we are ever going to respect the fact that there are more and less things here. [[The president calls.]] Behind this board of directors is 51% voters...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u30	V.E.G. President. I take my leave of silence to have a place to say. paritaprevir The Independence Party and Vice President Val of Valgerður's Gunnarsdóttir. Foreign Minister sent a letter to the European Union on the status of Iceland's Member States on behalf of the European Union. We discussed the state of the council on account of this letter yesterday, and the conclusion is that the 2009 synopsis is completely valid. But regardless of the legal and technical issues involved, I would like to ask. A senator knows whether such letters are in harmony with good governance. Does it seem reasonable to her to have news like this on radio news? Would it not have been a more reasonable guide for the matter to consult with the II Parliament's Foreign Affairs Committee? In the report of the General Assembly committee, the Ministership was severely critical. Do you not fear the senator and the vice president that the government's administration in this case is marked by a secret, vague message, interpretation of practicality and damage will contribute to Ministerhood at the expense of the Congress's independence?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u31	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Sigríður, Ingibjörg Ingadóttir for the questions. I would like to further explain the questions the senator had raised to me that I believe that a foreign minister has exactly the same right to write a letter to the EU as well as to the chairman of the ruling parties that would then write letters. I don't think it's unusual that the Secretary of Foreign Affairs is taking a stand on this matter. Last year, a synopsis proposal was proposed, which went into a lawsuit here at the council and didn't come out of the Foreign Affairs Committee. It is absolutely clear that the government does not intend to continue the work being done during the last term. And I'm going to say what a voter in my last term is that I'm sorry that I wasn't asked if we wanted to go on the road to applying for involvement in the European Union. I've always opposed the fact that we're walking in the European Union, and I'm really sorry I didn't get to tell you about it. I'm also going to answer the question about fear of government. I'm not worried that there's an abnormal way of running around, any more than during the previous term. The government on each occasion has the authority of voters to govern by its grant of Congress and I expect it to be done right now exactly as it was during the last term.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u32	A respectable president. I don't know what to say, but I don't know what to say. paritaprevir Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir and thank her for being recognized. Foreign Minister recently sent a letter to the EU describing what he has in the media described very clearly as a violation of the European Union. to reset the process, as he put it, to complete this process so that it will land at zero point. Now this has been a big discussion, rightly. It was proposed about a year ago that entered the council and naturally discussed it, and we're talking about the European Union, which is an enormously large and extensive case. It went to sleep. The Foreign Affairs Committee discussed and never came from there, despite the nature of the problem. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson of a year is the chairman of the Committee and the Independence Party. That's why we're calling for work at the highest level. Secretary of state, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, Regardless of the legal questions not yet settled, I assume that this is the case. A senator, as well as hopefully all of us in this room, requires the respect of the government of the Council and requires respect for the Senate. So I'd like to ask you why. paritaprevir Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir on the business of the minister of foreign affairs in this case and his comments and comments. Prime Minister and the requirement for government respect for the International Parliament of Iceland. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u33	A respectable president. On July 16, 2009, we voted for a synonym proposal to begin a member course with the European Union. The government that then sat was given that assignment, and it carried it out. Therefore, I would like to state it here and now, because the government decided to follow General's decree, I still believe that this conclusion is valid and that no one can withdraw it unless the Council itself. The government of Iceland, not only the secretary of state, but the government of Iceland, decided that a foreign minister would deliver a letter to his colleagues in Slovakia. That's the government of Iceland's decision. It should also be clear that this government of the Superclass and Independence Party has from the beginning said that it is not going to continue its activities at the European Union. It is clear to all, and it has been clear to everyone since the beginning. I don't feel the same way that I've never felt, and I've never been that way. I have always considered it my right as an individual and a senator to have independent opinions. So I personally don't agree with the route that has gone. Also, I did not approve of the way that was to be carried out by a Senate resolution made last year, that there should be a question to ask the people and their access and the attendance of a council and a nation as important to me today as it was on July 16, 2009. I'm not going to get involved in whether governments or individual ministers or members of Congress are disrespectful or not. [[The president calls.]] I must respect the Council, and they are members of the council, members of the council as well as ministers, who, if we choose, will honor them above themselves. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We can do the same.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u34	V.E.G. President. I want to use this part of the program to have a word for what to say. paritaprevir Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir, thanking her for her knowledge of the invitation to have a place to speak with me with but a little shame in advance. If a letter can be determined by the representatives of the governments as the highest. The secretary of state, who has not only been discussed in the council but also in the media during the past few days, was the main purpose of destroying the uncertainty and leveling the situation in the relations of Iceland and the European Union. I want to ask you why. A senator will see if she thinks he did. Does it make sense that Iceland is still an applicant of the EU or is a sleazy one? A senator agrees with the highest. The President of the Generals, who believes that the resolution of the Generals since 2009 has not been canceled? Then I'd like to ask, too. A senator if she thinks it's the highest. A minister of foreign affairs has agreed to send such a letter without first consulting him. State Department. So, finally, because there is always a change of heart regarding discussions with the EU and different parts of the Parliament, as well as the national sector may have different opinions about the application process: if you are a member of the network. paritaprevir Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir agrees with this interpretation. Governments that it can end the discussion without presenting a new council proposal, but do they just do so by letter? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u35	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir For these questions, Þóra's annual daughter's Árnadóttir. I think I got most of them down. She asked me if I thought the letter was an uncertain and explained the situation or if it indicated that Iceland was still an applicant state. I believe that the letter's main message was made clear: the government does not intend to restore the parting process, the commitments of the previous government in the Memberal process are no longer valid in the light of a new policy, and Iceland is no longer considered to be an application state. This letter asks that the EU should take care of the measures taken and, instead of going all the way, to strengthen the EEA contract and to have closer cooperation on the basis of the EU. That was my interpretation when I read the letter. Hv. A senator also asks whether the minister of foreign affairs was entitled to send the letter but, like, the other, to send the letter. paritaprevir Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir's daughter came in earlier was the decision of the Iceland government. It was signed before the minister sent the letter so that I don't believe that an entire government has decided something that one minister has not been held accountable. Hv. A senator also asked if we had changed our mind. I believe that the government policy is clear and, by the authority of the voters, we will follow the terms of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u36	A respectable president. The situation is bad in a work market after the collapse of the economic system, where homes and people in the country were burdened with heavy loads. Today, that situation has changed, and there has been a growing number of optimism and employment. In the South, where unemployment was the hardest and most severe, society is still in pain, but it will heal by the concerted efforts of people in the workplace and good workers. We are optimistic in the South. The largest workplace in the Southnes, Leifsson's Air Station, is then excluded from the fine spirit that prevails in Southnes, where most of Isavia's 800 employees operate. In the short history of Istavia, many employees have been suddenly quit their jobs with very severe action, but many of the company's work centres are filled with fear and turmoil among employees. In a few years the company has lost several cases in the Supreme Court because of the illegal expulsion of people from work. At that time, under 50% of the company's staff are satisfied with the pleasure survey made by the company. It is a long story, and it is a major concern. Recently, three members of Isvia's flight station at Keflavík Airport had left jobs for no reason or for any other reason than organizational adjustments. When two officers were told the good news, they would sit alone and hardly remember what was said because of the shock of the news. A believer was not preached in support of humans. It is painful to watch an honest man bow because of the harsh actions of a superior man who has no place to do what he does. Their families, their children, and their parents are broken, their homes are gone, and good people are left in a fog of hopelessness and anxiety. At the same time, the executives of the company work hard in the personnel business, breaking their own moral standards and handling the company's funds and misuse their facilities while the sleepless employees are laid off without any cause. In this sad case and others, where the executives of the public companies are acting very hard and overindulging in employees, there is a need for improvement. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I believe that justice will triumph over injustice in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u37	V.E.G. President. It is true that Loðvík XIV., the sun - king, said: "The kingdom, that is, I. Those words well describe his ideas about official authority. He felt that he had nothing to do with him or anyone and especially the people, the people living in his Kingdom, France. About 140 years later, our second statesman, Jón Sigurðsson, was alive. He looked at things differently. What did he say about official authority? Jón said, with President's permission: ▪ The nation itself has the authority of the throne, and no one is supposed to decide the matters of the people of the whole nation, except according to the majority of the nation's will. According to the majority of the people. For a century and a half, Jón Sigurðsson began to understand that meaningful democracy stands and falls by the trust of those entrusted with authority and to the public, with humility and consideration for the people, the entire public. So I think President Jón would have been a little uncomfortable if he had been here yesterday and heard from the top. Secretary of the budget is very careful with the permission of a president: The ◆ The more part of the capsule is in question. Screw all the people in this country and don't agree with me, he might as well have said. Loðvík XVI.. If he had heard it, he might have nod to consent. V.E.G. President. I'd like to allow myself to encourage the highest. Prime Ministers and Economic and Economic Ministers and their Government to show a little humility in their work, to join President Jón, and to learn from him about humility and responsibility in the treatment of power, while not from the spirit of the sun king. Disrespect to people, bullying, and pride of power is a sure way to undermine democracy. I want to believe that many who have supported that government do not want authority to be used in their name.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u38	A respectable president. It must be that way when we see a government operation as we have seen recently that you are wondering why people are afraid to propose a violation of terms for the council. It has been held here and in the media that the less part gets in the way. Well, listen to the Endem, a respectable president. It was simply this way at the last assembly that the matter was made through the council, and it went to a committee where it was put to sleep. There are no questions about fear of the lesser part when it comes to tearing out the committees of the alcohol bill, framework, and others and other matters, which are absolutely clear that there is no peace at the council. But when it comes to this matter, people reason with them. Then, a respectable president, the real reason is to be slowly exposed. We see a member of Congress coming forward and declaring that they are opposed to this work, they are also opposed to breaking up the application procedure. I'll say what. paritaprevir Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir, I'll name it, too. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, who actually goes so far as to quote him on the beautiful Circle Road Web site that this can be compared to a break, much or less. Could it be that the reason why humans are so cowardly that they do not suggest this proposal to the council is that they do not have more to do with it? Is that what's about to be exposed here, a respectable president? You must ask yourself this, and most important, since when the proposal for a member's application was adopted at the time, it was adopted by representatives of the five members of the Senate, the forward party, the Independence Party, the Civilists, the United States, and the left movement of the green market. It was just that way. It was a parapolitic reconciliation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u39	A respectable president. I'm going in a little different ways, but maybe not. I'd like to discuss a report of the Contestant Board, "A Day-to-Day Contestation Guide." The state of the Contestant 2015. The section on which increases in prices are not attributed solely to external circumstances is summarised by assumptions and measures. I'd like to discuss what it says. for action, with permission of the President: ▪ It is important for consumers to be strengthened by gangs and improved by a small sale through a lower price. I think most of us can agree on this, as well as the operation of supplying and day-to-day stores, to revise their business agreements competitively. But it also says, a respectable president: ▪ Government must promote competition, including competition. with the opening of the market and a review of the competitive policies of agricultural and toll shapes. It may be this, a respectable president, who I'd like to direct my words to, if it's not yet time for us to reevaluate the levels as a talistoll, although only in the number of nickels, and in the percentage of the patrons, and to reduce both parts for the benefit of consumers. I miss, a respected president, in a general conversation in the community, when we discuss purchase and votes, that in this way the government can, indeed, help with the consumers and the people in the country by reducing the number of capitals and in the percentage of the patrons. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u40	V.E.G. President. According to the Constitution of the government, bills relating to decommissionment of insurance from consumer loans are expected to enter this council at the spring Summit. These bills are now under the Constitution of the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs. The government's been calling off insurance insurance on consumer loans. The first steps in these matters are to take place early in 2016. In that case, it will be absolutely forbidden to offer long - term privatizing consumer loans to over 25 years of age. In the processing of the bill on bail, the work of a team of experts for the decommissionment of consumer loans has been used in terms of majority opinion and expertise. For one thing, the suggestion of the greater part is that in the long term, prices must be given as much money as 25 years old. The minimum time for new prices of consumer loans will be extended from five to ten years, and restrictions will be made on mortgages due to the price of mortgages. There will also be an increase in the amount of money you take and the care of the unsecured loans. It is noted that the experience of these steps will be evaluated and that there will be a plan for full-exploitation. Among other things, Vilhjálmur's Birgisson Birgis's proposal to make special appeals is that the prices of consumer loans will be completely prohibited. Because of uncertain loans, demonstrations, such as subsidies of the head of the first year's credit period, will be used. At the same time, it may be used to reduce the head position, which has already been shown to be in the government's debt due to the prices of the mortgage. In a special opinion, it says that a roof will be placed on the insurance of older loans, which is particularly important. In this context, I would like to quote the speech of my fellow group member, giddy. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson, son of Thor, said, by permission of the president: Despite the present period of some half-final economy, stability lies ahead of execution of contracts and agreements. It would be an enormous improvement and a wise entry into collective agreements to get close to an older responsored loan and not to wait for the offer to switch to an unsecured housing system. There we are. A senator wholeheartedly agreed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u41	A respectable president. I'd like to leave a note of the great difference between the head of the Independence Party's understanding of the letter of a foreign minister famous to enmourage and the opinion of the President of Generalis, who made this special statement yesterday. In the morning paper on Friday, the head of the Independence Party, in an interview with a reporter who asks if this includes that Iceland's application that the European Union has been retracted: I think that the situation is totally starting. A reporter asks: "So the application has been canceled? " That's what I'm talking about, says the highest. Bjarni Benediktsson, chairman of the Independence Party. A statement made by the president here at the council yesterday shows that there is a sharp distinction between the proposal made at the council last year, of the reinstatement of the application, and the letter to the highest level. Minister of Foreign Affairs has sent representatives to the European Union. It is evident, then, that when these two answers are compared, the understanding of what was going on in the administrative part of a letter is very different. Secretary of state. Of course, it makes it very clear that by means of these all, there has been a governmental crisis between the government and the council, which actually does not follow class lines. Rather, differences in opinion are very tangible and deep and require that it be maintained and brought to the attention here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u42	A respectable president. I think only of this team of Congress's activities, how far we can go in directing our comments to certain individuals and companies without being able to answer to them. Hv. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson spoke very hard, most frankly, about one company, an official partner, in his speech earlier. I feel a little uncomfortable sitting here in the hall listening to such words falling from this chair when men cannot carry a hand for their heads. I think it's important to say that we need to be alert to the way we use ourselves as members of the organisation to individual companies and companies outside these halls.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u43	A respectable president. I thank you for the opportunity here given to further review the government's implementation of their EU Member States policy on the current decision-making process and further explained in a letter to the EU. I think this discussion is equally important in addition to a good discussion here yesterday, especially the review of the President of the Generals, in an effort to further explain the administrative sources involved here. You see, the government's actions are on a very stable foundation. This has gradually led up to the last few days. This is a relatively simple matter. No one's supposed to be surprised that the government chooses to make the arrangements that this application procedure is now complete and that we no longer believe we're a candidate. This letter is first and last. A respectable president. I'll be glad to start over a few of the facts so that the context is still explained. It was election time in 2013. Their conduct and, in fact, their entire last terms, it was clear who the position of the present government party was. We didn't want to go to the EU, and we wanted to stop the party talk. Regarding this, we quote in the chapters of hard conflict here at the council during the last term. These groups received a clear course in the election, including By the policy that Iceland would be better off outside the EU, creating a government that has this on its policy. In line with this, there was a halt to the discussion of the matter. The bottom line of that view was discussed here and in the Foreign Affairs Committee for hours during the last assembly. The government went on to propose at the last assembly to retract the Member State's application. It testifies to the clear policy of the governments. This proposal was discussed, even longer than a report by the Institute of Economics, both in the Hall of Congress and on the Foreign Affairs Committee. The government has repeatedly declared its will when it comes to the position of the Member State, we have never considered Iceland to be an applicant in the absence of agreement with one or anything about the EU that has to do with the possibility of membership. So there was an election where the attitude of the previous council subjugated and transformed the political landscape in Iceland. It is the duty of the government to comply with the policies chosen by the greater part. Democracy has been spread among mankind in these last days. In this context, it must be held that if a new government was bound by following the policies of the previous governments rejected by the voters, it is not in harmony with democratic government. During the election, I have repeatedly made this position clear to the Foreign Affairs Committee. This was in the case of a break in the earlier administration, when the contract board and groups were released, when the Commission fell from treaties to IPA projects, and now, at the last time, a contract proposal was made to retract the Member States' application during the last assembly. Thus, the current stand has been discussed with the Commission and the Commission's Council several times with the State Department. The letter includes only other implementation of the plans in the Senate arrangement. This makes it clear to everyone that what the government is doing with the letter given here that the subject is clarifying its course. After such refinement, the European Union has been called on by the European Union, since its first government, interrupted the discussions in the 2013 election, including the 2013 election. of former EU institutions Of course, it is always an assessment when a formal agreement with the State Department of State is sought, especially when there is some new step in a case already under extensive discussion with the Committee, and especially when a clear policy of the government parties is established. I remind people that January 14, 2013, in the morning of Monday, the first government came together and actually cut off the talks, although it was given some other name that I can't remember right now. It was not a reason to consult with a foreign committee until late that day. My fine predecessor in office, boy. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson, passed a similar evaluation in connection with the Libium, and concluded that he did not need each step of his talk. My conclusions in this discussion became the same. Thus, no one is supposed to assume that the government has had its policy in ending this process. Various steps have been made to make this clear. At the same time, it has been my opinion that if possible, the best possible option is to try to end the case with a joint decision between us and the EU. It was to the point that I took the initiative in the management of the EU that such a solution was discussed. The results of my conversations with the executives and between our executives, the executives, and the executives were that if the government chose to take further steps on the case, it would be best, for example, that it would be done by a letter in which her position was expressed. That's the way that came down with this case. A respectable president. The Government letter provides three main factors, that the government has no plans to re-start member negotiations, that this new policy replaces any commitments made by the previous administration of Member States, and that Iceland should not be considered as an application state, and that the EU should correct its procedure. As a result, the 2009 Memberal process has been completed, and to the extent that the government does not consider Iceland to be an applicant state. This will further explain the implementation of government policy in line with the basic theme of the Treaty and the proposal to retract the Member State's application. During the last few days of this discussion about the content of the letter, I would point out why. The members of the council are supposed to interview me in the Morning Press on Friday morning, and it is clear from my mind what is included and what is not. In my opinion, in order to restore this process, you need to renew your application, and it will be best for the nation to do what they do in a national law. How this will be carried out is the case of the second period, the second but no less of the EU, which, in fact, sets the lines on how to proceed. The situation is now simply that it is at the EU level, and it is the relationship to weigh how it responds to the letter. It has been the will of the government to implement this implementation of its policy in the greatest agreement with the European Union. What is such a project? We're asking that Iceland be taken from the arts of an application state. We want to stop inviting Iceland to the EU meeting as an application state. And finally we wish that the EU would invite Iceland to participate in joint declarations of foreign affairs, business pressure, etc., as it has been for years, but we can continue to participate on the basis of the EEA Convention, in order to maintain that status. The EU has met up with what is in the letter with a sense of understanding and the conversations I have had with the European Commission and its Member States have always made it clear that they have a full respect for the government's will in Iceland. In this way, all I expect is that the EU will respond to our letter in this way to acknowledge our decision and adapt its implementation so that Iceland is no longer part of the applicant country. I also hope that we will succeed in further promoting our cooperation with the EU on the basis of the EEA Convention and in other areas where we share a common interest. At least I will approach the EU in the way that I have done from the beginning. A respectable president. The discussion of this matter is now all about its shape, and has been doing for a very long time, about the government's administrative authority to respond in this way. In fact, while some people are feeding doubt about the European Union, material discussions have not been possible. Various heavy words have fallen upon us, who have no basis for proper interpretation of laws and commands. I have full respect for the fact that the government stand is missing, and the council went by, and I'd like to discuss it as it was here yesterday. In this discussion, however, we must not lose sight of the correct interpretation of the European Government Command. It cannot be overlooked, however, that it is in accordance with the opinion of all established administration experts who have expressed themselves on this matter that the government has the full governmental authority. The main issue in this matter is the principle in the administration order that foreign affairs are in the custody of the European Commission, not the legislature of the legislature. This means that the General will not be able to intervene in foreign affairs except in one case where it is intended specifically to authorize the government to validate certain national rights under Article 21. The constitution. This means that the lawgiver cannot give formal and binding instructions to the Commission on the treatment of foreign affairs - and that, among other things, why the arrival of the State Committee is only a consultant, but the committee cannot issue binding orders for the government. Naturally, a government government in the U.S. government wants more part of the council at any given time because it serves as its agent. When making a decision on foreign matters, such as other matters, she must take this into account, and after incidents seek the political support of the council for the issues she feels she needs. For example, this refers to the declaration of support that the previous government sought for its plans to apply for membership in the European Union. However, the decision of the Generalis was not a legal requirement for the application to be submitted; it was not referred to in the application itself. When approved, there is no need to question the political implications of such conclusions. V.E.G. Last night, the president of Generalis described this symposium as not binding the government beyond what leads to the council council. As a result, the influence of the council odors is holding hands with the strength behind it. If the level of Congress declines or declines, the significance of the instructions they make will be altered accordingly and beyond the event. The conduct of a synonym with a political issue may thus be dependent on the continuation of the relevant policy issues in the council. This accords with the unanimous findings of the legal opinions ever made, both by my side and by the president of the Generals. [[Up front.]] It is not only based on the coverage of prominent scholars, from abroad, but also is in harmony with the attitude expressed by government therapists in the media over the last few days. Of course, however, the General will supervise the implementation of the conclusions they have agreed to and monitor how they are angry with them. In order to accomplish this, there has been an arrangement taken at a council assembly that assumes that the government will oversee the conduct of the council each year with a special report from the prime minister. On the basis of the information presented, then the Council may decide whether there is any basis for action. In this context, it is of interest to consider a report by the prime minister on the development of conclusions adopted in 2005◯2009. It shows that because of their limited financial resources, for example, their implementation seems to be strongly sanctified by the political priorities of the governments that were then established. For example, consider the lack of timely guidelines that were followed by the General resolutions of the Council and that were delayed for years. The EU conclusions are not different in this respect from those concerning the implementation of many of these conclusions. Hence, considering this is not a reason to question the government's authority to complete the procedure in the way it was done last Thursday and that it is fully in accordance with Icelandic government laws. Another thing to say is a clean premise, which has no other cause but to kill the debate and to turn the attention away from the point of the matter that the discussion process is over and will not be reactivated on the watch of this government. A respectable president. The current EU debate shows us once again that it was a fundamental error for the former government to set out on this mission without signing it under the nation. [[Up front.]] The current government policy is clear that Iceland's interests are best paid outside the EU. This will only result in a new increase in the General Assembly, which requires a new government and, in my opinion, a new agency and a renewal of applications. For the greater part, there is nothing in the decisions now made by the current government that would lead such a major part in this regard, i.e. provided that the EU is not affected and is taking the Community and the rest of its clearly provided that the situation is as joyful as it is in 2009. After everything that has happened, I'm going to allow myself to continue feeding my doubts.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u44	Mr. President. The General is an elected institution. It is the highest decision force in the United States, and its sovereignty is sanctified by two aspects; by the Constitution; and also by the traditional government guidelines. One of those not registered is the Order of Congress on which all our work is based. The highest interpretation. The minister had here on the Þrídnætttiary rule, unorthodox, that I do not say Švlger, and have never been heard until these days at the high council. In effect, it means: A minister can do whatever he wants while his confidence is not accepted. That's savage. I have one question to say to the highest degree. Minister. She's this one: thinks he's the best. Ministers that his letters include some administrative or grammatical argument against a new government being able to resume without having to accept any special interpretation here?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u45	A respectable president. Hv. A senator who came here in a pita would like to interpret people's words out and south, even those who have a hell of a lot more knowledge of this than you and I do. Now the scholars have come forward and declared that the government and the minister have full authority and authority to write this letter and to go as far as this is concerned. This is true of interviews in the media and elsewhere. About a question why. Of course, the senator's comments on whether a letter here is out of the question that the next government or another council can make some other decision about this matter. There's nothing we can do for the next council. What we are doing, however, is saying to the European Union, and it is clearly in our letter, absolutely clearly, that this process is over. Iceland is no longer an application state. Iceland is no longer involved in negotiations with the European Union and is not going in there. However, it is another government to decide whether it will apply again. I believe that if it is done, it should be based on a question first placed before the nation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u46	Mr. President. I welcome the highest answer. Minister. He sings like a hummingbird to me. That was the answer I wanted. V.E.G. Today, a minister has confirmed what he has been saying some days ago that nothing in his letter includes any administrative barrier to a new government's taking care of the matter rests on it in the way that it chooses. The other thing, I'll tell you, I agree with the highest. Minister that it is proper to go to the National Court for continuation of conversation. But it's important. V.E.G. A minister has naturally held in this way that many words could be said about it. I am content to say that last week he had as many opinions as he had in three days. V.E.G. For example, in one interview that he now confirms, a minister said that he did not send any letter that would involve one or no change or tear anything. That's when it's clear to the highest. Minister agrees with the highest. General President. [[The president calls.]] Then I'm happy.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u47	A respectable president. I quote my words here in the beginning of the matter. A senator may be a bit strange, if I may say so, in his speeches and in his interpretation of the people's words. On the other hand, I think that's what we're doing. A senator must realize that a cibrift is not going to hear from me in this matter. It is crystal clear that I know that a government that intends to start a conversation with the European Union is to arrive here at the council and is actually going to have to propose a new proposal for the council to begin.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u48	That's not what you said before.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u49	[[The point is, you said another thing before.]] [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]] Now I'm surprised. To listen or at least go back and read what I said, a senator writes it out. [[Up front.]] I got it. I got it. A senator to do so instead of trying to turn this thing out of his system.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u50	A respectable president. I'm still trying to figure it out. Minister at council resolutions agreed with the council resolutions. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister directly across another foreign matter uninhibited of this, a foreign policy that has been adopted by Congress, and I am quoting a conclusion adopted by the last Parliament to recognize the sovereignty of Palestine. This conclusion was now adopted with much more. Suppose, then, that there would be more in the council and in the government based on more parts in the council that would be opposed to that conclusion. Tells you the highest. A minister of foreign ministers in that government could back them from recognition without consulting the council? Tells you the highest. Minister that the government could make a single decision without turning to the council?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u51	A respectable president. If that interpretation is not based on either size 21. The constitution, or a claim to, some of the songs that have been set, is de facto possible to do so in this way. But don't forget that the votes of Congress that hold the majority of their support year after year, the government by the government, are not under the same authority because more things are always the ones that were taken along. And there's another thing to conclude like this, accepting the state of Palestine, I think few people, even though it's permitted, should do so. I think it would be fun for us to take rather some other example that is more like what we're talking about here, if we should have an elephantóphera about this. Consequences that do not occur in the law or in this article of the Constitution cannot bind the governments that follow. Can you imagine what it would be like if this council, or last or last government, had adopted 100 terms of all kinds of nonsense, should the present government have worked on that? [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u52	A respectable president. I consider this to be an enormous change in the ways of the General Assembly if it is so that the interpretation of this government is that no greater proportion can be turned aside from the approved council without going back to the council without turning back to the council. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] To be honest, I'm not getting that understanding from the opinion that all members of Congress have quoted from here and there. It is made clear in her detriment that in some way it is necessary to inform the council or to approach the council. So I can't think of any different than this interpretation as being out of the legal opinion. I'm asking the highest. Minister again if he considers this, whatever the law, good work? Is it not better to go to the council? I'm asking the highest. The minister to his position in major foreign affairs and to his changed position on major foreign affairs: Is that not better? Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u53	A respectable president. I think that after the adventures we're going through right now, there's got to be a discussion at the council and elsewhere on the state of the Senate, on how to interpret them, and how to make things better, and how to explain things. It must also be noted if any change is needed regarding, for example, the appearance of the foreign committee, etc. This is no government policy, the government has not said it is this way. It is overlooked by more than one scholar, at least one scholar has made a public statement in the media about this. This is shown in the opinion that went back to the Foreign Affairs Committee. This is also shown in what the president of the Parliament says, that no more part of what has been accepted and done except - no, that is shown in the report - can be legally established in any way or in a constitution. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u54	A respectable president. V.E.G. The minister of foreign affairs makes it clear that there is more to breaking up business without a national fee. I wondered, based on the promise of national pay, which was not least from the Independence Party but also from the Supreme Court. Secretary of State, and at the speech of certain senators from the ranks of the Commission: How does the Supreme Court know? Minister of State that he has more to do with the case before the committee is issued and before a second discussion of the matter is over? Now it is clear that the matter was discussed very long, very detailed, about a year ago, and it never came out of a foreign committee, however an independent chairman of the river. Named, what. paritaprevir He's a Birgir's Ármannsson's farm. That's where it was. How does the chief know? The Minister of Foreign Affairs... that he has more to share with himself without a national fee... at this council? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u55	A respectable president. First, it is clear that the matter of Congress was delivered a year ago when the government was taken hostage. There was a filancy day after day about the matter, which was held hostage until it was obvious that the exchange at the end of the council would not be reached and was made. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] The government's situation prevented the matter from being resolved. This is the same government situation that now calls for the matter to come into the council so that it can be spoken of and elected. [[Up front.]] The management situation does not have the courage to vote for a proposal to cancel a discussion with the European Union or anything like that. The government situation prevents the council from voting on it. [[Up front.]] But since then. A senator is asking them, so the will of the governments is clear, and their approval is clear. [[It's the front call of the Senate Hall.]] We intend to be outside the European Union. An independent party and the forwarding party, a national meeting, and a party council state exactly how this is to be done. [[Foreground on: Praise one another.]] [[It's the front call of the Senate Hall.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u56	The president asks why. Congress officials must be silent at the Hall of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u57	A respectable president. I'm sorry, I don't have time for a thorough discussion at the highest level. Secretary of state on democratic authority. But his answer is very disturbing to me, so that no more is said. To use it as an excuse to go past the council that the council is not entrusted with the case is a statement of distrust on the part of the highest level. Secretary of state to the council. That won't do, Mr. Honorable President. V.E.G. The minister of foreign affairs and the government did not even introduce this to their own groups until after the decision was made. Government policy may be as clear as it is, but the policy of the board of directors for elections was to set the case in national terms. This is where governments come out of line. All members of the council, who express their desire to receive this for a national fee. But the highest. The minister of state is counting heads, 38 to 25, and he decides that then the Senate will have to accept this. If Congress doesn't act like the highest level. The minister of foreign lands pleases him if he just ignores it. [[The president calls.]] That's exactly what I was worried about coming from the highest level. Secretary of state, a respectable president. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u58	Here's what we're talking about. A senator of democracy and votes. I wonder what. During the last assembly, a senator has often come in for a hearing to prevent a vote from coming? [[Up front.]] I wonder what. A senator has often done so? [[Up front.]] How much would he have contributed to the debate presented here? [[The president calls.]] Let's just count it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u59	President still wants to be on trial for what. Congress officials give a sound to speakers on the platform.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u60	Mr. President. I've got a short answer to get past my office. Secretary of State to take away the Senate, accept it better later. V.E.G. A minister has been somewhat contradictory in his interpretation of his own letter and has faced several problems because of what is known. V.E.G. According to a minister, this is part of the European Union's request for clarity, to explain the position of the Memberal process. The highest plan. A minister just canceled the interview, canceling his application from 2009, so why was that not said in his letter? Don't you know how to put it that way? For example, you could not say: The application in July 2009 is hereby canceled. That is not done in the letter. Or we'll talk about Iceland's involvement here, we're breaking up. That's not what this letter says. Or: Our discussions about Iceland's involvement are terminated and our applications are canceled. [[The president calls.]] That's not what this letter says. If this was the intention, if it was the purpose of the expedition, why didn't they make that clear? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u61	A respectable president. Maybe I should have been as clear as that. In a television interview, a senator said that VG would never ever agree to converse with the European Union. Hv. A senator told the night before the election that it would never be possible, VG wouldn't allow it, the council would stop it in the event of it. [[Up front.]] Then this man comes up here, this fine senator, and begins to accuse others of not being able to stand up for what they're saying. It is clear in the letter what the government wants; it does not want to be part of the European Union; it wants the European Union to take this into account.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u62	Mr. President. Of course, the highest will be expected. Secretary of state can answer the perplexing questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u63	I answered.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u64	I asked: If this was the meaning, if the government of Iceland felt that it was Tuesday to cancel an application to the European Union or to end the discussion, why wasn't the letter spoken accordingly? Why the punctuation? Why this stupid game? To say that the government of Iceland has no plans to start business again, it is not like breaking them off, no, just reporting that they will not be rejected again. The fact that it is the firm stand of the Iceland government that Iceland is not an application state is not the same as canceling the application. It's so clear, and it's clear to all those who have some minimal language, it's clear that there's a cover-up going on here. Probably with the European Union, but intended for home bridges to be able to carry on their breasts and go to a cottage with men of Hómos and say, "We did this. [[The president calls.]] We broke up. But that is not the case. [[The president calls.]] What I'm trying to ask about, a respectable president, is why do they do this? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u65	A respectable president. Just as before, the letter is clear. In 2009, a senator in his speech signed up the right to end talks at any time. [[For example: Can't you answer like a human?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u66	This cannot be offered, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u67	A respectable president. I had certain expectations for this part of the program, that we were going to discuss a report to the highest degree. Minister of state, but then comes such a presumptuous and unpleasant position. Minister to the council that I can't let go of bringing it to the President. V.E.G. Minister puts in with what. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, who had participated in Congress with a discussion, speaks of how he was preventing the progress of the matter by talking. It's the highest. Minister to impose restrictions on the freedom of speech in addition to all that has been said here? It strengthens the difficulty of this government every day that the Minister's attitude is completely unbearable toward the council. [[The president calls.]] I'm next in a mood to pray to the highest. Ministers to be somewhere else so we senators can discuss the rank of the Generals here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u68	A respectable president. The General Assembly is so well prepared for these days that you can look up discussions at previous meetings in a relatively short notice. The resolution proposal was discussed on February 27, after which it was discussed on March 10, March 11, March 12, March 13, and March 13. These are just days when the European Union, a respected president, began to be discussed. The European Union. I feel like I'm at the highest, sometimes. Secretary of State does not know what he is up to. Most important, on March 14, 2014, the president's permission states: "The State Department of State reached 143,2014. That's where it was. The chairman of that committee is the particular reason. 9th. Smoke. n., Birgir Ármannsson. That's where it was. The fact that the council discusss the matter for a few days and then sends it to a committee, where an independent figure could have taken it out, is called on firstly, as an excuse for the government's taking matters into its own hands by the council, is completely shameful and is not available. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u69	A respectable president. It's a serious matter. The minister of state explains why he has not come here with a decree to end the discussion in such a way that he is, in effect, saying that he did not trust the council to accept it. He accused the council of stopping matters and so forth. Like what? paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's son, however, was this very controversial proposal to end the discussion, a very controversial conversation both within the council and among the nation, for five days. I am entitled to give talks as well if such a proposal is made again before the council and will do so. Five days in this matter is not a talker in any way. It can also be noted that other things were being discussed, as was the case with the Economics Agency's report. The administrative body sometimes speaks of him wanting a material discussion about the European Union. [[The president calls.]] How was that discussion handled? She went on for one day, and after that came the highest. Minister of state with a suggestion to cut off the European Union. [[The president calls.]] It was all the respect for that discussion, even though much was asked for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u70	V.E.G. President. Yesterday, the highest. A special reason for making a statement about the state of the council. Well, the reason was the highest letter. Secretary of State to the European Union, which the President stated did not affect the situation and the values of Congress since 2009. All right. Here today, the secretary of state is giving a report on this letter without any judgment, not merely an interpretation of the Senate but also an indication that the members of Congress do not have the freedom to speak. Rather, they express themselves here simply to prevent votes. V.E.G. President. I request that the prime committee discuss seriously how to make the stewards understand that they are in charge of the council and that, regardless of their share or parts, they show the members of the council a proper minimum of time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u71	A respectable president. The highest answer. Minister and answers to ask why. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson showed us in what process this case is and how it is carried out. Minister is approaching. He has decided not to allow anyone to get in the way of this business discussion, nor does he care about the people and their opinions, as well as about the council and their opinion. Let us remember where the matter fell to sleep at the last council, inside the Senate committee, and also that when it was instituted, it was adopted by the vote of every body of council members at the General Assembly, including members of the independence party and the forwarding party. Let us remember that it may be at the height. Minister felt that he would not have a side of the council to pass this suggestion. [[The president calls.]] That's why. That's why this case is going on here and the highest. A minister may want to review it with us as to what he has in a second hundred talks about a meeting of presidents during the last term. [[The president calls.]] You might want to spend some time on it here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u72	A respectable president. I just want to think about how we should behave if this is to be the case, if this is to be the case, that we're to be the secretary - made decisions, of course 53,555 men who have signed the list of those who want to receive a national law on the matter. It is, of course, required, for it was promised, the figure that his knowledge is impossible to obtain this matter through the council. Then I wondered how we future senators approach issues that are controversial in the community that get thousands of people day after day out into the East to protest. Shall we ask the highest. Minister of State, how long can we talk before he decides that we are no longer competent to make decisions in this country? How are we supposed to keep this? I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u73	Mr. President. I think it's the best. A minister sinks deeper into the swamp, first of all, by trying to interpret the tribunals from the table. V.E.G. Minister, Minister of the government of Iceland, will come to the General Assembly for a hearing and interpret the seminars off the table. She doesn't exist, considering. paritaprevir and the highest. Minister of Gunnar Bragi, son of Sveinsson. The opposite is the highest. Because of having prevented a vote on the matter of Congress by talking for a few days in total, the entire body of Congress - about what? The first round. Congress proposal for big business. It seems to have gone by the highest level. The minister of proposals goes without a vote to the Committee after the previous. There was no barrier to any votes. No need for that. At the end of the discussion, the matter came up with a committee. It was March 13th, wasn't it? And they lived there because everyone knew that the government groups had exploded on their limbs and did not try to resolve the matter. [[The president calls.]] If they wanted to stay below themselves and enough time, then why wasn't the proposal refurbished in the fall, the highest. Ministers, as soon as a council met, would they have the whole winter to try to get it through?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u74	A respectable president. It's drawing up the highest understanding. The Minister and the Government that the Council accepts its commission from the government, but this is not the case. It is getting very important to correct this situation. You, top dog. Minister, is in charge of the council. If you think what you seem to think, the highest. Minister, if we're on your behalf, send us a letter. [[Upwards: not you.]] It would be helpful for a body of Congress to receive a letter from the highest level. The minister and the government that would review the procedure, the time for speaking, the proper time for us to speak about matters and how we should generally behave. If the council accepts the commission from the government, we'll ask for such a letter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u75	A respectable president. Since Thursday last week, we have the highest. Secretary of State knows that he would have to enter this council and discuss these matters. He's had a few days, all weekend, to prepare to come here and sit for answers at the council. Even though he had done well in reading his talk earlier, the preparation was not too much to be able to appear here with someone as unscrupulous, of some humility, and to discuss this matter without being wrong, bullying, and boring. This is a concern, of course, because there is a man here who handles the foreign affairs of the country. If this results after five or six days of preparation, God help us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u76	A respectable president. Looks like the highest report. Secretary of State and perhaps especially his answers before that the purpose of sending the letter was to bypass the council, passing the council with a verdict in important and important matters. Last night the president read a report and discussed the state of the council. I would like to ask the president if he will not revise his conclusions as stated in the report by the highest term. Secretary of state today. It is clear in my mind, and I ask the President to review a speech and answer the highest. Minister, the council was being avoided in a thorough and conscious manner.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u77	V.E.G. President. I came to this discussion today with the expectation of getting some answers, from the highest level. Secretary of State, what to do with the EU, what message he was giving. I wanted to go to the highest. A minister himself explained this to the General Assembly of the Icelanders. This will be our talk to the highest. Ministers are running low. So, what does he do? He quotes the morning newspaper and his conversation with the newspaper, says this to the council: "I'm here on a speaker, I'm not entirely confident with myself to explain this. Just read the Morning newspaper. Is there anything that can be said about the obvious source of control? It makes you sad and sad. Then it says the highest. Minister: Parliamentary speeches. But that council strength is not allowed to appear. Is it really so that he has clocked all the members of the council and says: "You must, you must, you must, and there is nothing to be done before the council? Are these the conditions we should have here? No, no, you don't have to ask, you're in my business and you just shut up. That's the message the Minister is giving.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u78	A respectable president. This is where the government's total disrespect for the council is revealed. It is quite remarkable to see that when the government's side decided not to attend a gathering on Friday, in view of what had been done, and in view of the fact that these matters were not given the opportunity to be discussed in the council, it was not just the government's situation that passed the assembly. Where was the government? Was she all somewhere else? She attends the Council's annual festival and can have fun with one another, but she's not with her people, with the members of the board at a party. We'd have one minister. That's all there is to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u79	Mr. President. It is essential that this opinion be held at the highest level. The minister of state, his opinion, and his interpretation of the terms of Congress resolutions conflicts completely with the interpretation of the Legalized Office of the Council, called upon by the President. The summary is very clear, with the permission of a president: It is up to the council itself to review, and after, events to change their previous conclusions, not the executives. It also states that the terms of Congress are not legally binding, but they are binding for the government on the basis of the Constitution. It is a tradition in this country, and it is by the court of custom that can be viewed as a rule that needs to be followed. Although this was not the case and it was not the way they wanted to interpret that it was then not a legal obligation, the government is still bound there to allow it to pass through the council a changed council, a changed position. [[The president calls.]] This is stated in a legal hearing from the Office of the Generals. The President of the Generalis has to explain this because this conflicts with the interpretation of the minister of foreign affairs on how he should conduct these General policies. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's got to be explained.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u80	In this regard, the president encourages them not to misuse the kindness of a president in speaking time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u81	A respectable president. I'm still wondering why we're getting all these phoney answers from the highest level. Rather than answering questions materially, a minister and why he uses his boxing gloves to hear it or to try to bring it down in some way because he does not engage in the material discussion. He just doesn't put it on. This may be because of the highest. A minister is out there on the ice so slippery that he can't control his own position? Could there be more going on within the parties than we get to hear about in the media and in here? Then I am witnessing that, for example, there is reason. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason stepped forward, calling it the highest. Minister's doing a breach. It's not my word, it's a word. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason's son, whom I quote here on the Ring Road Web site. Could it be that the response here is a defensive response to something far different from that of us in the memory of the General Assembly rather than to defend ourselves against one's own people? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Is that why people don't put in here a pact proposal?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u82	Thus, the president is still directed toward members of the council to respect a talk period.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u83	A respectable president. At a council meeting yesterday, the secretary of finance said that the greater part was in charge. Today, at a council meeting of foreign ministers, the same majority of the pride and superiority towards the council. I don't think we need a special report from the prime minister in this regard. His view of the council has been repeatedly demonstrated so that the presumptuousness and contempt we see here are actually drawing ourselves into a very clear picture of the government. Likely, the point is true. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir that this is a government defense response on the run. She is a fugitive from the Generals, and she is on the run from the nation. But finally, I'd like to say, The Minister does nothing but perform the will of the Generals and the Council to express himself by law and by Congress resolution. That's the way it is, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u84	A respectable president. Just so you can see, the man here isn't at a party because Róbert Marshall's keeping an overview of who was coming to a gathering and who didn't, and that was for personal reasons. We're here discussing the President's conference board, and this is such the first career today that the government's taking over the President's conference board, and I am very pleased to hear talks from many of the people here. I'd like to start by saying that I felt like I was talking about the highest. Minister of foreign affairs very well earlier and how he answered for this matter and how he has handled it, and he has done so well over the past few days. I wondered, a respected president, the frequent voyages of the government opposition to the conference board and the large words that have been made to fall, whether this might be because the government itself looks at it now and mourns over how it was held in this matter during the last term with indiscriminate work, since these fine senators themselves made the suggestion to produce a national agreement for membership in the European Union, horse trade as a basis. þm. Össur's ossuary described his book so memorable before Christmas. [[The president calls.]] But I'm really looking forward to the end of this meeting session and we start getting talks from what happened. administrative opposers, because I want to communicate with them below. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u85	Although I don't think I've already asked for the word again, I take advantage of the opportunity. Then I'll just keep going where it was left off. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] This does not really work - or does it seem that there is still some uncertainty as to how Congress resolution should be viewed? Is this becoming a problem with the Senate? The European Commission has now made a clear opinion on the formality of the Council on how the European Commission is going to interpret conclusions from the Council? Following this, the president called for and obtained his own opinion from the Senate Legal Office. It is now a year and a half, and we are not sure how things are going. This is where we stand today because we haven't had it completely explained to the president how these matters are handled, i.e. ... whatistheresponsibility of the synonym. We need to make that clear because the legal opinion is clear. It is the Council itself to review, and after, events to change their previous conclusions, not the executives. There's something the company doesn't agree with. [[The president calls.]] It also makes clear that the conclusions made by the General Assembly are considered to be governmental warrants, its proposals are and directly addressed to the government, binding on the government. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, the execution of this medicinal product is not approved. And it's also not accepted that Congress laws are still valid and that they are active. We need to get that straight. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u86	A respectable president. I thank you for the word and for the highest. Prime Minister for coming here to hear me. But I come up here to describe my concerns. Looks like a dog to me. The members of the board are trapped. They're trapped in the past. For them, 2015 has never arrived, nor has it occurred in 2014. They seem to have been established in 2013 in May and have never passed that time. It's probably very good for looking and outside, but there's concern about politics in Iceland. After the last government's departure and the newcomer began, the members of the administrative committee will not be able to discuss anything that happened. I'll tell you, a respectable president, that I suspect the reason for this is a lack of vision. And if you don't have a vision, it's nice to stay in the past. But I'm not sure it's very good for the nation. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u87	A respectable president. It is welcome to discuss some of the strange events that began with the sending of a foreign minister last week and the fundamentals of those letters and the best - known letter. A minister in other lands calls for discussion. First of all, in view of the talk, it is worth reminding. Ministers before, that the Order of Congress is principled, recorded in Article 1. The Constitution says that Iceland is a republic with a political regime. That means the Minister will submit to the council, not the other way around. A minister cannot choose to ignore Generalis's conclusions, thinking that he will read some other part or other position from the Council's composition at any given time. This is in the formal decisions made by the Generals and Ministers, of course, if he wishes to conduct policy in a way that differs from that of the Generals' conclusions, bound to seek the approval of the General Assembly for a new course. V.E.G. The minister of state acknowledged this in action in a previous year when he proposed a reimbursement in the European Union. He, by his actions, agreed to the Congress's principle of searching for Generalis's position because of the nature of Generalis's will that may be different from that of July 16, 2009. Of course, he had the impression that newer things had been formed at the General Assembly of the Icelanders. That proposal was not approved at the General Assembly, nor was it adopted by government opposition. V.E.G. During the past few days, a minister has tried many times, and now in the last few years, to rewrite the story, claiming that it was the government opposition that stopped that proposal in the past year. It was discussed in the previous discussion for a total of five days. This tells us everything that needs to be said about the government's failure to make arrangements. If the government groups had gathered for that payment, the path of the proposal at 2 Cor. They were laid and we could have handled it here. No doubt, it would have been a significant debate, but that is, of course, so that the majority of the material will eventually be involved. If the highest. A minister would have respected the council if he had been present to make such a suggestion again in the fall, asking for it in the General Assembly. Everyone knows how the Parliament was conducted and that the possibility of a government opposition to halt the progress of a synonym is very limited by the rules of speech and conversation. I refer to the Father Houses, as a paraphernalia, to the minister's exception that the council is responsible for the teaching or the inconspicuous stand of the government resistance. According to Congress, the highest power is in the U.S. Minister to consult with the Foreign Affairs on major decisions. Now it's so great. The minister of foreign affairs has made a three - story statement as to whether a major decision was to be made in the requested letter and not all of them a grave in that regard. But his argument for not consulting with the State Department is that the matter was not important. I say, however, the legal obligation to the Foreign Affairs Committee is prerogative and false to the major foreign affairs and to our relations with the European Union must be considered a major foreign matter. And even at the highest. A minister might argue that this was not a major decision to discuss that called for consultation, but I ask: Where did he get authority to conceal and conceal his decision from the State Department? There's a reason he did it. The decision is made on Tuesday. He keeps it a secret to its own agents on the II Parliamentis Foreign Affairs Committee. It's not just that he doesn't respect his qualifications, no. He holds them with an illusion from information about the decision, and then demeans them to make them sit at a foreign hearing on Thursday morning, knowing nothing of the decisions the foreign minister has made in major foreign affairs. When you look at the events from this point of view, not just the sharp fraction of the supreme. A minister of positive consultations but his resolve to conceal the business committees of foreign law is obvious that he violates Article 24. Parliamentary laws that establish a leeway to the Allied Parliament on major foreign affairs. V.E.G. The minister will talk about his new Senate theory, which is in the foundation that he is not bound by anything and that the decision of the General on foreign affairs is ignored by the general election. As evidence of this, he presents an opinion that he made a special part of the Ministry at his office in the fall of 2013 based on a fundamental understanding of one Danish scholar. I refer to the very good opinion and report of the Kristrún Heimisdóttir who writes in the Core yesterday, a very detailed analysis of the misunderstanding that lays the basis for the 2013 fall. First, I asked the highest. Minister misleading questions. He asked: Do the decrees of the Generals have a legal significance in that they can exert binding influence on governments beyond what leads to the council? This is in the question based on the premise that Congress is not a administrative law and does not predict administrative duties. It's just wrong. The Congress, to recommend the policy of foreign policy and the government, is a custom that has been disturbed throughout Iceland. The report also discusses views presented in Danish literature, which, in the opinion, suggests that Denmark has administrative sources for the approved synonyms as well as in this country. It is true that government sources for the approved synonyms of foreign affairs are not quite the same in Iceland as in Denmark, far from now on. The study is conducted entirely in references to Jørgen Albæk Jensen, professor of Ados, and authors of the opinion are misunderstood in principle by this fine scholar. He himself has written a detailed section on the state's special status and the values of foreign reasoning and has concluded that although a formal government custody exists - the Danish constitution is well understood, not the Icelandic Council, in practice in Denmark. Here, the power of the Council is higher in terms of the policy of foreign policy than in Denmark, but even in Denmark, the council always talks according to the scholar's findings, which the Minister's reputed to be regarded. Hence, the fundamental premise of the opinion is wrong and therefore the conclusion. One of the best examples is the Kristrún article, which is about the concept of Congress that really matters, a very recent example, has been respected beyond election. It is a interpretation that was proposed without law in the fall of 2008 on cooperation with the International Cash Fund, which was debated in the political field, including the United States. was one political party, the left movement was a green offer, against that conclusion, but in the light of a parapolitic solidarity in other respects, an increased part of the Council, it respected political power and other political elements of this fundamental aspect of foreign policy. As a result, a greater transnational agreement on the disposal of the crash in Iceland than in any other European country, is disproportionate by the national secretary of state to argue that the decision to make foreign agreements is inextricably binding in view of all these facts. If the highest. A minister believes that the more relevant matters have changed, he ought to offer suggestions for the General and verify that part. He can't give himself or anything about his partner's support, and I believe that exactly what it is is. Minister done. Following the declarations, the highest. Prime Minister, the highest. Secretary of the budget and the highest. First - century Minister of Foreign Ministers on the possibility of reimbursement of the proposal for a speech break before the Council had been examined the basis of the constitutions and found that it was not guaranteed that a greater proportion would be for betraying the campaign clear that the Independence Party specifically gave in an election that no fundamental decisions would be taken on the break of business events except to follow the nation's commission. I simply think that the results of the convergence of the members of the members of the board were that it was not a more important matter for the matter. That makes the highest decision. Ministers to take less baptism, trying to create some letter that he has, in fact, had many opinions on what population, and trying to achieve the success he has repeatedly tried to achieve since his late 2013, trying to interpret things in a way that the European Union has decided to break up business relations in Iceland. Man's world of events in the summer of 2013 is at the highest rate. Secretary of State went a lot and said that at the EU decision to stop paying IPA, which was a direct result of the government's declaration of discontinuing the part of the Memberal procedure, the party is breaking up, the European Union is breaking them up? Will this be the case with the European Union? You should have your own way of stopping these talks. It is impossible to lie a stand on people who try to get them to do what the government does not trust in and who apparently never knew she had a political part to do, to break up the discussion without the arrival of the nation. A respectable president. V.E.G. Minister has said today that the matter is now in the hands of the European Union. Of course, it is very special that the government of Iceland will not be controlled by clear will to the environ ment. Rather, it is said that they have written letters, have not been authorized by the council, but they hope that the European Union will accept the word. After today's discussion, by the highest recommendation. The minister and his disrespect for the International Assembly of Iceland, his lack of respect for the International Council of State Decisions, is quite clear that it was a fundamental requirement that we directors of the U.S. Assembly wrote the letter that we wrote on Friday to the European Union and its institutions to inform about the actual democratic background of these decisions and the perfect failures that the government has to express themselves contrary to the scientific conclusions of the General of the World Council, by their own proposal of last year that it requires a new decision by the General of the World Council to change the former. On the contrary, the government will never find out that she accepted the need for a different conclusion. She slipped on her ass by putting that conclusion through the council because she didn't have much to do with it. At that time, she chose the path of the disease and chose to compromise with church principles. That is the fundamental part of this case, and it is the most shameful case. Ministers and government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u88	V.E.G. President. I'm not going to argue with you. paritaprevir Páll Árnason's reference to the theoretical reports presented in the council, both from the Office of the Generals and from the Ministry of State, on this matter. They speak their language, and they are quite clear, regardless of what humans choose to do with them. On the other hand, I think it would be desirable if it were. paritaprevir The years of the Árni Páll Árnason, leader of the Governing Body over the years, showed the greatest interest in the restoration of Iceland in the European Union and were preoccupied during the last season of business negotiations, gave us what he thought would be needed to bring up Memberal negotiations. How can you tell? paritaprevir Does Páll's Árnason years indicate that a government by which he and other EU groups were to take part would restore this? Well, maybe. A senator only looked on us on the road and described his vision of the future?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u89	A respectable president. In the first place in terms of the value of legal reports, it is simply that in the report written before the President of the Generals, it is made clear that if the General Assembly changed his mind, it will need to be proved by the presence of the Council of II.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u90	Or present to the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u91	Yes, or introduce to the Council and neither has been made in this case. On the contrary, the General Assembly has been systematically disregarded for the outcome of this case. [[Up front.]] What we have in the report prepared for the minister of foreign affairs is that it is based on a misunderstanding of the words of a certain man I have brought about here. Therefore, I think people should be careful to read too much, and often this opinion is expressed in the highest way. Minister and his allies are here at the Congress Hall. As a result, it is my position and my opinion that the secretary's letter is ignored because it was the Allied Assembly of Iceland that approved a 16th of July. On the basis of that letter, a letter is written on the same day by the secretary of state and prime minister of the European Union, applying for membership. On the basis of this application, the government of the Member States does not agree with the Member States but, rather, the National Parliament of the Member States, has a request for Member State affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u92	Nowhere referred to the synopsis in the letter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u93	In this way, their individual Assembly of Nations agreed that they will be set in motion in a business discussion. I believe that this letter, especially in view of the fact that it is now revealed by subspecies and delusions, will never be a legitimate basis for the European Union to change Iceland's position as an applicant. And as a result, there is an Icelandic government that wants to build up a desire to see that everything that has already been accomplished in this environ mental process is in good place. It is possible simply by letter to send a declaration to the European Union to adopt the thread. I believe, however, that there is political evidence to seek the nation's earlier consent in a national law to continue. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u94	V.E.G. President. Yes, those were interesting views. The core in answer to the o'er. paritaprevir The Árni of Páll's annual son Árnason's question to the European Union turned to believe that a new government, say in 2017, after the next election, could restore the talks with simple letters to the European Union, but that he believed it was a political necessity for them to have a solid, well - established authority, so to speak, to the nation in the National Bank. It's a pretty good statement in that relationship because I think we may be getting closer to the one thing that humans are going to agree on in that subject, possibly the only thing. And that is what led to the discovery of the Independence Party's National Conference, that unless it was approved by a national law, it would have to be resumed. [[What are you opening up to?]] And that would be most desirable. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] You're probably referring to something on the homepage of the Independence Party, not in any campaign policy, since it was a national conference that made a different impression. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u95	The president asks members of the Parliament to respect the time for speaking.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u96	A respectable president. How interesting it is to hear what you hear! paritaprevir The Birgir son of an Ármannsson, an honest and faultless man, renounces in the public address of the Allegorical Party, which was published on his website before the last election. Is it the webmaster who is the author of the Independence Party's misfortune? I thought it was a why. paritaprevir Bjarni son of Benediktsson, for so far has a why. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson would like to hang that cross on the head of the Independence Party and say that he dropped it in a TV hall. The fact is, of course, that independents across the country long and wide, leading men of all terms, promised that the people would not have a basic decision to complete this process or to end it except by the entrance of the nation. Of course, the category is morally bound to its voters. The key point in this case is that the minister's letter is ignored, based on delusions, based on permission to the General Assembly of the Icelanders, and it cannot be taken seriously by the European Union institutions. They would then be violating their democratic primary obligation, respecting Congress in the Member States. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u97	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir PállÁrniÁrnason What questions remain to be answered? We can disagree and debate the results. A senator found out after reading these articles, but based on his interest and suggestion in the talk, I missed not hearing him out in detail about his position as to what the Senate resolution is to be called here at the Senate Hall since July 2009. In response to an answer just before his vision of how he would want to proceed with this matter, he described how he would take the matter back into consideration with the European Union. How satisfying it is to hear that he considers it political to be the condition of the nation before further action is carried out! I want to ask you why. paritaprevir Árni ago, Páll Árnason, president of about the largest political party in this government opposition, how he feels about it, saw away from a political judgment he just described on his part, the Congress's 2009 picture. [[Not anymore.]] Does he think it is a reason to resume his discussions with the European Union in 2017? That might be normal if we looked back at the year 2030. [[The president calls.]] Counts 'em out. A senator of normal and legality to resume a discussion with the European Union based on that interpretation? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u98	A respectable president. Yes, if it is the order of the government and the council at that time, and the council does not want to change that interpretation, it is normal. The conclusion of July 16, 2009, is quite remarkable in history, e.g. Because it was not presented to a group of political foundations. Rather, it was tried to control complex chemicals, unite to apply for involvement in the European Union, and then put the contract into the nation's judgment. It's a methodology that's at the time. Officers Bjarni Benediktsson and Illugi Gunnarsson made it in the fall of 2008, considered very sensible. Neither of them once indicated that the application of the authority should be applied to the nation before being accepted for membership, which was to be done exactly the way that was to follow up on July 16, 2009. What is also remarkable about it is the decision made by different categories and by some skeptics on the particularness of the European Union. I remember that night. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson, who was then a member of the advance party, came up here on a speaker and explained in a vote that he didn't really want to say yes, but he might want to say, perhaps, perhaps. In this way, a greater part of the General Work approached, requested a contract, and proposed a commission that was rich and detailed. As a result, I believe that this is a complete conclusion, but that is, of course, the WHO decision subject at any given time, say 2030, if e.g. This disaster government is sitting there, which I think is blessed with no odds, but it would be a matter of government and Congress if they ever wanted to restore the matter in the future, whether the 2009 Senate resolution would be satisfactory, if it were not expected to be added. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I don't think any council will in the long run respect the supreme doctrine of authority. The minister of foreign affairs has made a recommendation to the Parliament and to wait for them. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u99	So the president focuses on the members of the council that they respect a talk lesson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u100	A respectable president. I thought it would be nice to bring it up here to the point. paritaprevir In the Árni Páll Árnason, president of Conspiracy, considers legal and administratively available that in the year 2030, the Council's Senate resolution will be drawn out from 2009 to initiate multiannual and multiplicity discussions with the EU. We disagree, and we are not inclined to do so. I am delighted in this case that there has been considerable disagreements. It is now time for men to take charge of the Senate. That seems to me a parapolitic reconciliation. So I wondered, " Is it really possible for any senators who wish to continue their business ventures to reimburse some form of convolutation, if not a law, on the subject of this council? ' [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u101	A respectable president. In effect, there is an interpretation from 1949 on the involvement of Iceland into the Atlantic Community. There has been no doubt about its value, and there is no council that has wanted to adopt it, therefore it is in effect. In the same way, the 2009 synopsis will apply to the future. If a government and a council at some point wants to build on it, to adopt it, it is possible that all right governmental arrangements can be made. I think there is a wide agreement on the defence of some members of Congress. I notice that the highest. The minister of the state has given talks and his case has not turned back the defence of the Senate but, contrary to the protection of arbitration against the council, a defense that ministers can take their own heads count of members of the council. And last year, he has offered a form of English ossuary to be held in Congress, making votes for members of Parliaments who took part in 2009, and he was retraced by the council because she was offended by the council. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. In this regard, a minister has repeatedly spoken of anything other than Congress and the defense of the Allied Council. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u102	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before the talk, but he would like to take the initiative and correct matters. A senator said that there has been no proverbial attorney and that this is not how it can be done. I'd like to ask you what. A senator in the first place whether he believes that Björg Thorarensen is wrong when she has expressed herself both in the media and in other matters. I'd also like to say that the government is in charge of the greater part of the council and that the government is in charge of a great deal. A senator, if he has doubts about the fact that the government is enforcing the will of a greater part of the council, to present a form of distrust to the government. Then I want a little bit of that. A senator said that it would be wise to bring up a national agreement in case the matter should continue. I think it takes two things to continue member talks with the European Union, on the one hand, that more of the nation is wanted and that there is a political desire to enter the European Union. None of these factors are present today. During the last term, the situation was arranged in an attempt to achieve political will here in order to apply for involvement in the European Union. Among other things, it was done - at that point. In fact, a senator not chairman of the United Nations - in that he was leading in the United States called members of Congress out of votes, threatened the loss of government if they were to support a national bill on whether membership in the European Union would be applied. Therefore, I'd like to be glad to know that the current chairman of the United States feels otherwise than his premise. And then, when the vote period was over, it was tried to achieve a variety of horse purchases political support for the application, as it were. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson runs the fun part of his book, which appeared before the last Christmas. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament whether it was a mistake at the time to resort to the violence used by the United States to stop the people from taking their stand on the question of whether any involvement in the European Union would be applied. [[You were in the board.]] [[You were in VG then.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] And it's like either way. paritaprevir The Árni Páll's Árnason years had a good share in the prize of horses. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson is so pleasant in her book. [[Foreground: I was the one standing...]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u103	[[Just say no.]] A respectable president. I've got to say the first thing I've ever heard. A councilman here sings on a talk chair in the time cylinder he seems to be stuck in, along with government counsellors, and does not seem to escape the last term. I know the last government did a lot of good, and I know it was a great time for the benefit of an Icelandic society, but I think we still have to go on. I still think we need to take on a new assignment. I still think we should do something new in life. We can't just stay in this happy season. We have to start looking at things ahead. I think that means what. Councilmen such as the government minister that they must begin to recognize their era instead of writing novels about the past.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u104	But the question of Borrgu Thorarensen?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u105	Hv. A senator here writes novels about events during the last term that are in a way that doesn't contain a stone on a rock in that argument. [[Up front.]] I don't feel like chasing after it all. Hv. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson has repeatedly explained exactly what he meant by quoted words. A respectable president. Hv. A senator says, his words were very interesting earlier: There has not been an executive philosopher; there has been no proverbial lawyer that we could not do what was being done. The big question is, What are they doing? That is what the answer has never been. There is no one who doubts that a letter can be written. But it is only that in the case of a decision made by the General, a minister cannot compromise it on the proper legal basis. There is no noble lawyer in the country who has said, not a single person, that a minister has free authority to defy the Congress and the principle that the decision of the General on foreign policy is binding on foreign ministers. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There's not been an advising executive authority expert that said that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u106	A respectable president. First, I must apologize to the chairman of the Conspiracy for having looked at the Book Össur, and what it says as a reliable source because I assumed that what was in that book was the truth, and I will now take it into account in my own case. [[It is written in that belief.]] On the other hand, already it is. A senator comes here to cover votes that were during the last term. This has been repeated. The reason for running away in this discussion is that the present government situation was not ready to question the nation before its departure. That's why it's so hollow when it comes to language. A senator now comes and talks about it in this way. For what the government is doing now, she's doing this for a full warrant. [[The president calls.]] Let's just remember that when the first government interrupted the matter at the end of the last terms, it was exactly the same way with the State Department of State as it has been discussed. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] The current government is doing this on full authority. But that the chairman of the United States is running so far in this regard, there's a reason why the language transfer has become so hollow. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The sound has become so hollow because they themselves were afraid, the Convergence, to ask the people in their final term application for involvement in the European Union. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u107	Thus, the president aims to respect the time limit in the sermons.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u108	A respectable president. I'm going to go back to memory one thing. Party like a dog. At the beginning of 2009, a senator is now on this loss to apply for involvement in the European Union. He did not suggest a search for the people's authority before applying. In case of a moment. A senator is going to do so much, then he should first meet with his newfound companions in the forward row. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] Hv. A senator was going over his talk class earlier and should let me answer, a respectable president. [[Up front.]] What's left in this case is... [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u109	Hv. paritaprevir The years of Páll's Árnason life have proved to be years ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u110	...to what. A senator comes here again and tries to rewrite the story. The mess he represented himself was put in the paper with the Senate appendage. Secretary of State last year regarding the alleged fraud, and all half-sighted references to what members of Congress agreed to the Council Recontractation in the summer of 2009 to the highest degree. To his eternal reproach, a minister of foreign ministers forced him to call back the synod and have it reprinted because it was so inappropriate and broke all Christian traditions. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[They were afraid to ask the people.]] [[The president calls.]] This endless obscenity, and this endless, half-hearted statement, is why. A senator, to be misappointed. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u111	Strategic Control.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u113	A president still points to members of Congress that respect speech class.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u114	A respectable president. Here came the chairman of the Conspiracy and claimed that the person standing here wrote a synonym for the government and the Supreme Court. Minister of foreign affairs at the last council, in the press, and in other matters within them. [[Up front.]] What comes out of our discussion when we listen to what we have to say. paritaprevir Páll Árnason's years were that he and his band were not afraid to ask the people if they should apply for involvement in the European Union. That is why the sound is so hollow when people then speak of someone else who is afraid to ask the people. It takes two things to make it possible to have discussions with the European Union, on the one hand, that it is a political wish to enter the European Union and that it is a national desire to join the European Union. [[You promised.]] Neither is present today, there was little political will during the last term, but the Árni of Páll Árnason was afraid to ask the people.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u115	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir The annual Árni Páll Árnason never made a promise to take this case to the nation before a contract was made. [[Take it up in Steingrimur.]] However, the representatives of the present government did so, so let's stop this crap here. I'm coming up here because I can't do yet one of my trips, wondering if there was something different here at the summer of 2009 on whether to be applied for participation in the European Union when the facts speak their own language, i.e. The members of the then ruling party actually chose against the proposal. It was all the oppression. On the other hand, representatives of the then ruling government, representatives of the forward party, and representatives of the Independence Party, voted with it. So that's what happened, so let's make it all clear before they persuade men not to accept their convictions. I wish and reiterate my wish for what has been said before that this will be examined if men claim it because that's when people have directly violated the constitution. It's impossible for a man to hold it here over and over again without reproach. A respectable president. If they look at the results of the vote, she'll speak her own language and she'll flinch that ridiculous saying... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u116	A president still points to members of Congress that respect speech class.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u117	V.E.G. President. I'm not going to make a lot of remarks to the conference board, but I have to be able to do that, because of that. paritaprevir On two occasions during July 16, 2009, Katrín Júlíusdóttir, her daughter, was correct in saying that there were votes from several categories that agreed with the proposal. One vote from the Independence Party, all the others against the other except one sat by.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u118	Vice President of the Independence Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u119	That's it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u120	Current council chairman.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u121	The situation was with the forwarding party that three voted with a vote, but most of it, so we know, of course, that even though there was control and opposition, lines were not completely clear. [[The vice president of the advance party.]] [[That's it.]] [[Up front.]] But that's not true. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir describing why. þm. The appeals of the incident in this relationship to Einar the Ásmundur of David are in some way distorted or false. [[The president calls.]] We who were here and saw what happened, we heard what happened, we know that it was quite amazing aerospace of the then state of the state, quite amazing, and every reason to review it and investigate it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u122	Again, the president reminds me of the speech lesson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u123	V.E.G. President. Besides, I don't make any comments to the President's secure management of the meeting, but I can't let it pass because I think I'll be on the President's chair when it rains. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason will talk below, which is a little new to him. But he began this discussion about the President's conference board, and I know that the racer will freely use both of his opportunities to set up the President's conference board. I'd like to ask you what. A senator who is a former senator left green: When the government was created in 2009, the Council of the Left Green was organized into a government business. Hv. A senator did not vote against that. At the council meetings, that too was approved. A senator did not vote against that. And there was discussing the 2009 process of agreeing to the Contraction of Memberal discussions with the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u124	It's like a tunnel.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u125	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason then supported this in all the power institutions of the left movement - green supply. [[The president calls.]] If he wanted to thank you for it, just like the vice president of the advance party at the time that approved this, too, and two more. Wasn't that two more? [[Up front.]] V.E.G. My prime minister doesn't have to teach me anything about the Senate.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u126	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u127	[[The president calls.]] But I might have to take him in a storm.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u128	Thus, the president is directed to members of the council to respect a talk lesson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u129	A respectable president. I've always found this strange debate about what the senators really meant by their vote. I always think it's a reason to remember the 48th story. in the Constitution, at this point, by permission of the president: ▪ Councilmen are only bound to their convictions and have no rules from their voters. Nor does it depend on the rules of the present government, nor does it depend on present members of Congress, on their own convictions, and on their own conviction to determine what the conviction is and on what it is based. It's very simple, we'll vote, and that's what it means. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u130	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The year - to - year Ármannsson request for coming up here and carefully reviewing who was supporting this proposal in the present administrative committee at the last council, because it was all true. Then let us also review that five members of the then governing party, the left movement - green bid, voted against the proposal, that was all the oppression, that was all the pressure, now all the cat's pay. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] A respectable president. Now let's just start putting these matters aside and stop making good men here in the hall not to stand with their convictions. This proposal was adopted because there was solidarity across it across all groups that were then at the General, it was simply that way. The story cannot be rewritten now just because it is convenient for them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u131	A respectable president. We're discussing a report of the Foreign Minister, but if you don't. The senators want me to account for the left movement's position in the European Union's affairs, as I've done about 177 times before in pontu. However, I know why. Government members find the position of the left green very complex, and they find it very difficult to understand. Hv. paritaprevir A Birgir's Ármannsson might ask me about it afterwards, and we can only talk about the whips he's going to talk about and he's going to like to talk about at the General Assembly. You see, the last 2013, national meeting left greens agreed to a proposal to complete member events and establish contracts with the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u132	Category...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u133	There was also a proposal to vote for the continuation of the meeting, and this is the proposal proposed by the council at the last council but failed to succeed. It is more than a little strange, given the promises of the chairman of the current board of directors for elections at the highest level. The secretary of the economy repeatedly promised a national fee, even making it particularly at each meeting after the meeting that I sat with him before the last election, and that the national contract should be held during the first season of the election. Now we approach the end of the terms of the season, and this promise has not yet come true. V.E.G. The prime minister is here, and I also remember him at a meeting where he said that he had always assumed that such national action would take place, but he was open with time. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] Many interpreted it as having such a national law, though, as I have said before, the highest. Prime Minister has the right to open up words. The Independence Party is so in a tough rush from its own campaign code. Today, an interesting report was published in a photo of the Independence Party website from the beginning of the last month, with the permission of the president: The suicide party considers Iceland's interests to be better off outside the European Union. The Independence Party believes that new vacation agreements should be stressed with the world's major states and solid communication with the EU on the basis of the EEA Convention as it is currently being done. In each Member State it is decided on whether or not Member State's affairs should continue. This stood as the course of the Independence Party at the beginning of February, according to the National Library on the Web site. Today, however, it stands as if the last sentence has been changed, hopefully after one of the approved parties. Maybe a what? paritaprevir The year's Birgir Ármannsson realized what has been changed since February because today is at the end, with the permission of the president: In 2013, business events were terminated, and there are no plans to resume them. The national agreement has just disappeared from the independent tribe's website. This is quite irreprehensible, dignified president, especially in view of the fact that those who operate the Web site have clearly failed to realize that, of course, all the data is stored. It is easy to look up the subject, even though the site is tipper and does not want to know the promise they made before the last election, each of the highest ones. Minister of Independence Party, but they're not here today. This is more than a joke. I didn't really mean to talk about it. I was going to discuss a letter at the highest. Minister of foreign affairs here today, which I may feel is primarily about our interpretation of how the council works. I have come to understand that the Ministers are employed by the Generals and here is a republic with a political government, as the Constitution shows. A General's legal report on the value of the synods has been quoted, whether ministers are authorized to exonerate them. It was shown by the highest. A minister who has previously been given a word exchange that we were supposed to think he is. He estimates that there was a greater share of the present administrative body, without signing it, he could reverse the recognition of independence and the sovereignty of Palestine. I feel like we're in a certain situation if the understanding of the Honourable Minister and the Supreme Minister. Governments in the Senate are natural for ministers to pass contrary to current policy in foreign affairs. This has also resulted in the tradition that in foreign affairs the terms of Congress, not just those based on national agreements, in a special way. All I can see is that the legal report we've all referred to here a considerable amount to the interpretation that advisers must submit such a change to the council. I'll let me read it here, with President's permission: After all, it is the council itself that determines whether it falls apart or changes its conclusion. At the same time, it is in the power to determine whether a government or a minister has followed its conclusions and after experiences of responding in a way that it or more of it thinks is correct. It is also the conclusion of this summary that the government, or according to the cases of an associate minister, should take the initiative to inform the General if they do not intend to follow its conclusions. A special support for this principle has been made in the 2011 Parliamentary period of change. Will this be done either by a report of a minister on the position of the government or by a new Senate resolution. In this way, it can be assumed that the Council's position will be adopted to a dominant government policy. Then we will consider what has been done about the interpretation arrangement that we are discussing here. The last words are quite clear: In view of the foregoing, it must be assumed that the General shall be informed of such changes and at the same time consult the council's position or some of it regarding the change of the trial. Whether or not the initial decision of the Parliament is legally binding on the government. I think this is a pretty clear message from this legal paper, i.e. the conference's position must be searched for. Then we can discuss whether this change is as great as some say. While there is no clear agreement on how great it is, men have to form a statement quoted in Professor Björg Thorarensen, which, in fact, suggests that it would have had to, in any case, have had to be informed by a State Department under Congress law to be a minister to the Ministry on all major foreign affairs. [[Up front.]] My conclusion is that not only would it have been necessary to inform the State Department, of course, that it should have been informed, but in this case it would be right to accept the case, as follows, if the conclusion were legally binding or not. We just have that system, and maybe that's the big question here. Ministers are assigned to the council, and it is not sufficient for ministers to feel that they have more to do with matters because our position on the matter is in charge here in this hall. This is where we stand. Our attitude may change after a discussion that takes place in this hall, and we can choose to vote in a certain way after listening to a conversation in this room even though we thought we were about to do it. Therefore, it is not enough, and it is not enough to consult solely members of the states that appoint the greater portion at any given time. This cannot be enough to feel that a person is a candidate for most of the council. In order to do so, the council needs to be consulted. I think this suggests that we are having trouble with the Senate and our interpretations of our dealings with the Council. I can't hear any better than some of them. In one way or another, members agree that there is even reason to explain this in the law or in some other way. But should we be discussing these matters from the exact words of the law? Should we not discuss how we want the council to operate? That's why nobody can control but us sitting here. All of us can point to endless examples from the past where someone did something in some way that we are not happy with, definitely from our own categories and all the other categories, someone did not reveal this, did not do it this way or gay. And as long as we stick to staying in the past, we're not going to make any progress, that's perfectly clear. If we're always going to be stuck in the season of 2009-2013, like I've accused the present. The government of being sometimes, we can't go anywhere. As we live here, we must consider our responsibility, the 63 of us now responsible for this council. Are we happy that major foreign decisions are taken in this way? Or do we feel that they are normally covered by the council? The conclusion of last year was certainly controversial, and there were other suggestions coming in, and I'd like to remind you of a proposal that we made in the left movement, a green offer in which we said: Good and well, the current government considers it a political impossibility, as it turned out, to complete these business events. We suggest that these talks be interrupted, but there will be a national agreement during the period so that the nation can be guided on how to proceed with this matter. Because it's the highest. The minister of state wanted to deny before that his proposal for revocation had been stopped here, I allow me to point out that it was discussed in no particular length of discussion compared with some of the points discussed here, she went to the State Department with a suggestion left green and a suggestion as a question. Councilmen of the United States, Pirata and Birts'future moved, if I recall correctly, about a national law that was different from what the council had every opportunity to take care of these matters. I don't remember we've been here way past the set day of last year, to be honest. I believe that the council would have had the full opportunity to complete this release and to take a stand on the matter as well, taking their stand for guidance. That would have been easy, for that reason. I cannot say that this matter has been stopped before a talk period, and I can see that it would have been good to take it down along with the suggestions on national pay. Then we could have got a clear stand, for I don't really get to watch the promises of the provincial party so that they're put out of the category's home and that we don't get a chance to hear in the chamber how they would vote for such a proposal. I have to say that I would be very interested in hearing and being present at that vote, for I believe that only they were aware of the promises they made before elections. They will not be forgotten. A respectable president. I'm not going to have any more words on these matters here. However, I feel that this calls for our advice here at the council on how we interpret the council's conclusions. It is the role of the legislature and the execution of the Commission to implement it as a legal agreement, whether by law or by resolution. It is the spirit that all of us must act in harmony with. If there is now any other interpretation, i.e. that conclusions do not really hold their worth over each assembly, and I think it's a new interpretation. I remember working as a minister of education to advance conclusions that were approved for my time in the Ministry of the Second Parliament, and I felt that there was nothing wrong with that. If we are to say that such conclusions need to be made at any given time at the council, do we need to consider this, do we not? Do we not need to discuss this matter, to discuss it in that way, whether it is a reason for us to review this interpretation, and to see if we agree on it? I think it's the big thing that's left behind. I'm worried about this because we're sitting here on behalf of the nation. We are not just the representatives of our classes or our districts, we are all elected representatives of the nation, and we are to act as such, and therefore it is important that we agree on the rules of the games that apply at the council and the customs and traditions we want to follow here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u134	A respectable president. Because of why. To begin with, I want to remind you that it was the last government, not the General, who applied for involvement in the European Union so that the work of the last Congress to the government on how to live that this application can clearly not be valid for the current government. But let it lie in between things. It is evident from a constitution specifically showing that foreign affairs are in the hands of the European Commission, that the government is not based on the conclusion of the last council. Let's just ignore it, and let this synopsis be settled in part because whatever it is, the last government made it clear that it has the right to end the debate at any point in the matter. Counts them why. A senator that the current government is so limited by the opinion of the last council that it does not even have the rights of the last government? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u135	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the question. I would have thought natural if the last government had wanted to break up the debate that it had been again subject to the council on the part of the last government, as if I thought it would be natural on the part of the current government that this case would arise in any way in the discussion and payment of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u136	A respectable president. That was not the last government, and especially the then president of the left movement - green bids spoke of many times when they declared that the government has a right to break up with the European Union, even though it allowed itself to go into this. The government has reserved the right to end discussions with the European Union at any point. So I ask again: Is it? A senator of the opinion that the present government is not equal to the last government in this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u137	A respectable president. V.E.G. Prime Minister repeats his question, and I repeat my answer. The last government was authorized to recommend it at the council to break up business affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u138	That's not what I was talking about.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u139	That was what was spoken of and, in the same way, the current government is completely allowed to suggest it, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u140	V.E.G. President. First, I wanted to say that I think it's kind of admirable and bold by the left movement of the left hand of an offer to be discussing what is said before elections, and then after elections in this relationship. But in order not to stay too long with the past, I wanted to ask him why. paritaprevir About the same question that I asked the Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. paritaprevir In the following Árni, Páll Árnason said: "If you were to form a government after the next election, who wanted to continue the business, and say that the left movement, the green supply, would be in such a government, how would you define it? paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter that such a government that would continue should bear it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u141	A respectable president. I'm not sure that I'm involved in a government that wants to pursue involvement in the European Union. But if the next government of 2017 wanted to pursue membership, I would naturally feel that she would look to the people for guidance in that regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u142	V.E.G. President. This is interesting. It is good that there is still the crosspolitics that seems to be forming in this hall to have an internal discussion with the European Union restored to national law, or to be politically desirable. That's what happened. paritaprevir Páll the son of Árnason earlier, and now on the other hand. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, that discussions with the European Union will be started only after the national arrangement. Now I wonder, about taking part in a government that is heading toward the European Union and changing the question, "If any." A senator was a member of a government who wanted to continue member business with the European Union, how would it feel that this was the best thing to do?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u143	A respectable president. I think my position in these matters was made up of the proposal that was made last year for a national hearing that would guide the continuation of the situation, and we can put it this way, and I'm no more than that it's the same answer to the previous inquiry each. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u144	A respectable president. Hv. A senator calls on the world of Congress to stop looking back and to talk about what happened in the past. I'm not going to give it up, because this case will be discussed as much as it will be considered how it was started. Then I'm referring to the 2009 General election when it comes to what happened. A senator. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, was on the air in SpV, and he was asked whether it was possible for the left greens to enter the government and to initiate negotiations with the European Union. The answer was five nos with different variations. So I ask why. paritaprevir Katrín, Jacob's Jakobsdóttir: How does she feel about the beginning of the matter and the fact that her left green swindle over there boosted her campaign for these elections?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u145	A respectable president. At the national meeting of the Left Green 2009, the conclusion was adopted that the left movement - green supply is opposed to participation in the European Union. Furthermore, the left movement - a green supply that would be considered important in the national legal process. It was the guidance I had at the time that my government was made with the United States who wanted to establish this matter, that for the people to find out that this case was justified in applying for membership so that we could allow the nation to take sides in a case that has been discussed in Icelandic politics since, in fact, that Iceland became a member of the EEA Treaty. That proposal was adopted in all the top institutions of the left movement - green bid. This was the case's leading up to the question. There's a senator looking for it and asking for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u146	A respectable president. That's a pretty loose and powerless answer, for it's known everyone who chose left green at the time that it was the biggest campaign the next day that any group had ever made, received an vote for those who didn't want to join the European Union, and betrayed it the next day. Excuse me, Mr President, I'm making a mistake. This government team had been set up for the 2009 election. Among other things, this has happened to young people. paritaprevir As for Ögmundur the son of Jónasson, voters of the left green at this time were deceived. I'd like to ask what. paritaprevir For example, the daughter of Katrín of Jakobsdóttir speaks of the words presented in a book. paritaprevir Invested by Skarphéðinsson's son, the left movement - green supply has given up its EU credibility and allowed the Union to perform with the EU application against the left-green getting all its activation programs through the government. [[Didn't give in spite of a good attempt to do that.]] This is available in print, a respectable president. [[The president calls.]] Some people think a book is bad. paritaprevir But I still refer to Skarphéðinsson, who is in print. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u147	A respectable president. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator should be careful to speak of the weakness and inadequacy of such reasoning as the lack of strength and compliantness of the occasion before the Council. I also think the advance team is lost talking about a large campaign supply after their recent elections with giant elections, which they obviously could not live up to. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] With that. One senator noted that there is something in the written language that has become available, that I can't really stand it, and that we have tore a book of the highest order. Former secretary of state, huh? þm. Snoops of Össur's son, earlier in this hall, and as anyone who knows about the literature world, there's a good deal of who's using the pen in those books. [[Is that an absolute warrant?]] A respectable president. I can't really answer that question any other way than this: There is no stone upon a rock in reasoning. paritaprevir Hauksdóttir, the Hawkdotttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u148	Doesn't mean always putting your head in jail.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u149	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this speech. Those who have spoken in this matter have taken great criticism as to how the government is going to stop the matter and are doing so in a most irreverent way. That is why it is important to consider how this matter was started. Because of what? paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter just answered here. paritaprevir I'd like to read, by permission of the President, the Vigdís Hauksdóttir of the day before election 2009. There Sigmar Guðmundsson asks. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, then president of VG: Is it possible, Steingrímur, just so I ask you, to begin planning to apply immediately after the election? No. Because this is how the communities have spoken no, says sm. paritaprevir Steingrimur J. Sigfússon. Is this gonna start in the summer? No, let's say what. Senator. When can this start? That's what they say. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon: This is not in harmony with our policy, and we would have no authority to do so. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, who is spoken of as having a national law on this matter, was in a state of shockhv. þm. Steingrímur J. Sigfusson's not to handle the party's policy properly, because Catherine Jacob's daughter seems different? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Second, why did he back up? þm. Katrín Jacob's daughter, in her time, did not bring up a national agreement on the matter? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u150	The president asks why. Councilmen to respect speech class.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u151	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Ásmundur Daðason asks that this case be brought about almost as if he were not a partner in the left movement, a green supply when they agreed to join the United Nations on conditions that all of us are known. I don't remember any better than that. A senator was present at the conference that it was approved to allow him to remember all of this as well as I do. He also remembers the approval at a 2009 meeting that discussed the land's arrival. So it's pretty surprising to me. A senator comes up here to ask me, who was with him at this time, exactly what happened in the interiors of the left movement at this time, because it's rough. A senator well-known.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u152	A respectable president. It was agreed that the council would be held here in its own time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u153	You supported it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u154	There every senator could vote as he would. What I wanted to know is why. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter in this vote, where every senator could vote as he would, did not support the implementation of a national agreement on the matter, and if it then is not a bit of a pit in speaking about the fact that it must not be ended in the same discussion without a national agreement. I wasn't in the mind world what. When a senator pressed the button here in the Assembly Hall in 2009, she did so. But why can it not be done in a similar way to end member talks with the European Union without asking the people what they were doing at the time? I'd like to reiterate the other question about what was said here the night before the election. Was a what? paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, then president of the party, disagreed - was a why. þm. Steingrímur J. Sigfusson did not interpret the left movement's direction when he said the evening before election, four times but not five times like a hv.. þm. Vigdís Hauksdottir said that there would be no involvement. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u155	A respectable president. I've previously said in this hall that it was likely the most reasonable course that this journey had been under way at the time, before it was started. And that's what I've said, afterwards to think, that it would have been the wisest, so I don't think there's any hole in it. I also think that the United States has changed quite a bit after a crash. And I think that the demand for the public in this country is becoming considerably richer to have a direct influence on what happens in the community. It is a great demand for direct democracy in all things, and I am not ashamed to want to participate in the changes that have been made. I just do it, I want to participate in the transition, and I want to raise democracy directly, and I want us to use all the tools and tools that we can do to do that. No, no, no. A senator, I don't find any particular hollow sound in this, but it's been a while since the discussion was given but then presidents of the present government - which the present government avoids, like the warm fire - praised national law on the subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u156	V.E.G. President. Today and yesterday's discussion has been widely held, and generally it is not limited to what is on the schedule. Thus, this debate has taken place under both the current team, the debate over the letter of a foreign minister, and yesterday on the state of the Senate resolution, and there was a very small debate over the President's meeting board. Men have gone back and forth in time and bed. What matters to me may be the ones that I brought to my attention during last night's discussions. So I first speak out of the formal side of the matter, I cannot see that the minister of foreign affairs went out of his office as foreign minister in the government of Iceland by sending this letter. In this letter, there is an appeal and an explanation of Iceland's government policy, and it must be considered as a foreign minister having the authority to interpret it in this way. I think that's very clear. The fact that a political arrangement adopted at the beginning of the last terms would somehow prevent a foreign minister from interpreting the position of the government of Iceland in this way is not an accurate explanation to me. Those members of Parliament who disagree with the work of a foreign minister in these matters and believe that a foreign minister is somehow failing his role by sending this letter or the general government have two resources in the council to respond to it. Because it has reached the core of the human council, but its core is that no Minister, or government, can sit down unless the council supports him or has at least any support. Give him the patience of not having confidence. The core of the Council of Congress is shown by the need for Ministers to rely on more parts or at least The Senate's neutrality against its seat. It is the Order of Congress in its most pure form. Those members of Congress who doubt that a minister is supported at the council in this way can test his conduct in the Senate. Similarly, there are other methods that can be used by members of the Parliament to test the support or opposition of the council. It has been said that even men have plans to offer some kind of advice and all the good things to say. These will occur and will be treated. So I have to say that if members of the Parliament are truly convinced that a minister has opposed the will of a greater part of the council in these matters, they can criticize him for this, they have enough opportunity to promote that criticism, and they have the ability to, after the incident, to express distrust if they believe that the minister has gone against the majority will of the council. It's the essence of a matter, in my opinion. There have been some steps taken in consultation or inaccession with the Allied Foreign Affairs Committee. I have previously expressed my opinion that I did not believe that in this letter or in the approval of the government, which is behind it, such change of direction or new policies on the part of the government were required in advance to consult with the Foreign Affairs Committee. I hear people disagree on this. Of course, we need to take that discussion, both at the State Department and elsewhere, on how they are appreciated, but it is evident, of course, that the rule is not absolutely out in the sense that there is some universal standard of when a decision is large that it should be given under a foreign committee or consult with a foreign press committee in advance. It depends on an assessment, and of course it can be disputed. It can be debated in this case, and this can be shared in various cases from the past few years as known. Even if the benefits may be to explain the relevant legal requirements, I'm not going to rule out that we can do so, I think that we must always bear in mind about this type of rules that there is no rule against that at some point in question there is a need to be evaluated in the light of the matter itself, content or other circumstances, whether the rule is appropriate. It was about the formalities. I find the subject aspect of the matter of interest to me too. She may have received less attention here during discussions than is worth. If we consider the letter of a foreign minister in relation to what has been going on in these matters and what may happen, I think we'll have a little different perspective on things than if we're harping on exactly how to interpret the commission of ministers and other such. I don't reduce the importance of the formality, but I think we need to consider the physical side of things as well. Yesterday I drew attention to the fact that we are talking back and forth about breaking up. I've had a conversation. It's said that there is some discussion, like there's something going on in these subjects. No need to comment on this, but, of course, nothing has been happening in this discussion for a long time. The former government made a posetian decision to slow down the process, as it was then called, which meant that all political discussions were stopped and no new decisions were made in January 2014. [[Up top: not quite done...]] It was stated in the government declaration that the technical work of government officials might continue but that no political decisions would be made on the basis of discussions. In May 2013, a new government confirmed that it did not continue talking about it. Contract groups, negotiation committees were set free at the beginning of the autumn of 2013. The European Union has stopped reporting, and there is really very little left to indicate that we are in some business situation. I think there are two shapes still there, one on the other hand, that Iceland is on session at certain European Parliamentary meetings as an applicant, may probably be able to change the changing variable to attend the same meetings, not as an applicant country, but as an EEA State. However, there are conclusions in foreign fields, e.g. a close example is called forced action against countries approved by the European Union. This includes, we have been invited to join as a candidate state, but if we are no longer a candidate state, we are invited to join in as an EEA State. That's all the change. This contains what humans are talking about in a dramatic way that marks out as being destroyed by heaven and earth. I think we need to keep this perspective in mind when we discuss these matters. The decision of the government to deliver this letter is wondered, can we say that a new government can in some way restore its negotiations? I have explained in some media that no one can predict what it will be like. If at the next election, which is expected to be 2017, more is formed in the Council for walking in the European Union or continuing a discussion with the European Union, this would likely be tested. Then it would be tested, for example. Whether this is supported by an eight-year-old Generalis resolution with the guidelines and conditions set out on the part of the Member States. Personally, I'd think a new government that wanted to continue the business affairs would at least to reevaluate the situation in some of this respect, not based on an eight - year - old conclusion. I'd think a new government would even want to look at the situation regarding the end of the negotiations, the 11 EEA chapters that have been completed, compare legislation with the likes of that. I guess eight years later, people would think that there was a need to look at such things. So we can say, whatever our modern interpretation of this letter goes on to say that if, at the end of the next election, which was a participant or a member of the EEA account, there would be a lot of need for men in very many substances at least, if not everyone, to go to the ground, to figure out what basis they wanted to go back into conversation, on what basis they wanted to reinvent that process. There's nothing to discuss, no matter how Europeans are, humans can on a realistic basis continue as if nothing ever happened. I think that's just the fact of the matter, the political reality. In the end, the heads of both the left movement have described their view in this hall that they believe it is politically wise or desirable, I don't remember exactly how they put it, that a new government designed to go back to Member States received a commission from the National Court to go on that expedition. It makes sense to me, though I do not share my views with them in many other ways. In fact, I believe that it was shown in the discussions and really in all the past phase process of the case, too, that a government who intends to take this kind of policy needs to be under clear authority. It was quoting books earlier, fine books, and it was shown in the book Steingrímur J. Sigfússon of those years, his reign years, and his left movement, that strong voices existed in VG 2009 that it was desirable to support national law. In fact, he noted that opposition to that view also took place, but it shows at least that it does. that this view was already under serious discussion. If I remember correctly and correct myself if I'm wrong, then whatever. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's mask also in the same chapter that there was a discussion with the government with the Conspiracy, but the Conspiracy resisted it. That's interesting. It shows, of course, how intense that summer of 2009 was to start that process. The obvious conclusion that the United States's president sees things differently today is considerably political news to me. Now I don't know what all classes are looking at in this relationship, but that's what I think, topv. President, very interesting if it clearly comes out of the discussion today to at least The four major political parties in Congress intend to reinvolve themselves in business talks without being authorized by national law. There is tremendous political news if it is clear after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u157	President. I thank you for your fine speech, although I do not necessarily agree with an interpretation. A senator of all that was in it. I wanted to ask the senator something, especially one thing, and it's a national payment. Now, during the last term, independents made a pact proposal for a double national fee. Why has the senator changed his mind? Or can we senators and voters assume that when the lesser part proposes a proposal for the continuation of the discussion, the senator will be with us at that suggestion?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u158	V.E.G. President. So I speak from my personal and private perspectives, I supported the 2009 route, to the fact that there would be no discussion with the European Union, except by national law. For 2009, the position was clear that unless a national agreement was held, no discussion would be started. I also agreed to the Independence Party in early 2013, which made it clear that the Party wanted to stop speaking and that it would be started again only after the National Remuneration Act. Of course, some of the candidates of the party were making a statement that went further into the campaign, but it is also quite clear that the Government Convention, which appeared at the end of May 2013, was used in terms similar to that of the National Conference on the Independence Party, i.e. that negotiations would be stopped or stopped, and only after the national pay. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u159	It is quite clear that the government's resignation letter, taken secretly by the State Minister of Foreign Affairs, made it clear that the government's meeting, under the top secretary of state, would have been very careful to speak the letter in order only to be taken from the list but, in fact, to be in fact, the matter of membership. Let me ask you why. A senator would agree with this interpretation of the words of a foreign minister from this morning?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u160	V.E.G. President. I think that the secretary's letter includes confirmation of the reality that there is no discussion. There's no discussion going on. In 2013 there was a talk going on, actually in the most important chapters two years earlier. [[Up front.]] If we take this out of our words, we're right behind us. A senator who, in addition to the legal rights of the government, wrote to the secretary of state that a request is made for the name of Iceland to be taken from a list of candidate states, Iceland does not have a position as an applicant. That, however, so we stick to the formality, does not necessarily mean that an application is canceled. I mention, as noted at a meeting of the Committee this morning, that Switzerland, for example, has never canceled its application since 1992 but is not an application state.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u161	Madam President. I want to thank you. Three times before: First, for an extremely dramatic talk, second for being the first senator in these sales who has commended a book I published two years ago, third for looking to the future positively - this was Šbest comment Einar - for it was a good thing. A senator is not merely asking whether he should go to national law; he is literally making his shoes how a new government to act. [[Up front.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I disagree with him about many things there, but answer him in my next talk. I notice that he's already beginning to wonder about the possibility that a new government might apply after the next election. I'd like to ask you why. A senator: Do I agree that there are in fact no administrative barriers that a new government can take over and take advantage of the position it has today as an application state with the formality process?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u162	V.E.G. President. It's not necessarily forbidden to drive a damaged car, but it's pretty incorrigibly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u163	Madam President. His eyes look every man for silver. Whatever it is. A senator was, in effect, saying that it is possible to move forward. Hv. A senator says that the car is in a bad shape, but he did not say that it had been taken from him a license to drive it. That's the point. That's what matters most to me. That is why I believe, in effect, the core of the discussion lies ahead of a statement. A minister, of course, who has appeared many times in the past few days. A senator agrees. That's what matters to me. Some people think that membership in the EU is a tool to get Iceland into a stable environment; others don't think so. At any rate, it is clear that the head of the State Department, which has more weight than most in these foreign sales, is of the opinion that a new government can drive, but he has told it in his first speech that perhaps it needs to look at the motor before, perhaps it needs to revise some things. That may well be so. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u164	V.E.G. President. I'm not gonna argue with what. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's dream is that if there is a more serious objective objective here for starting a new member discussion with the European Union and if there is a government interested in continuing the European Union, it will find some ways to do this. I think it is always in the nature of the case that if the political news become all of a sudden more part of walking in the European Union or restarting the adaptation process, such a larger part will be involved and such a government will find some ways to do so. But I think it'll be a little difficult, it'll be a bit of a struggle, because, of course, things have changed since summer 2009, and people will find it realistic to continue differently than to think it over again. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u165	A respectable president. Now the Supreme Court has made it clear. Secretary of state and supreme. The goal of this letter was to break up the discussion, to do what was tried to do here with a synonym at the last assembly, although it did not succeed. That's in rational support of the highest. Secretary of state and supreme. Prime Minister that the reason for this approach is now that the Allied Council cannot be trusted to handle the case because of the phenomenon called a filamentist. We reasoned earlier that there was no dispute when the matter was discussed last year, that there was just a detailed discussion on a very important subject, and then the case ended in a committee, not in some schedule. I wonder what's wrong. A senator looks at the logic of these two as high as possible. Ministers to do this on their own without the members of the council on the grounds that the council cannot be trusted.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u166	V.E.G. President. I'm not gonna argue with what. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson on what conditions were in this council last spring. The biggest problem in its time was, if I recall correctly, that it was so difficult to put the matter on schedule because of the intense passion of the senators in talking about the President's conference board, which was done for days before the time count on the case itself began. But that's a different story. On the other hand, what I choose to consider in this matter is the points found in the Senate arrangement from the previous and the subject of this letter. There are two aspects of the subject, if we can say so. These are not the same points, but of course not only are they based on the government's main policy that they do not intend to continue with the application procedure. It's not the same. [[The president calls.]] It's a completely different approach. The points in the Senate arrangement last year and the rest of the letter today are just different. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u167	A respectable president. I'm not gonna go. A senator has to agree with the idea that it is in any way a legitimate hearing on the part of the Honourable Minister to blame the council for such decisions on their own. For a word or two. The senator's review of the material of the letter was somewhat different from the synopsis proposed last year, and the rational support of the Honourable Minister has been re-assigned, it's been zeroed, like the Supreme Minister. The minister of foreign affairs came to the fore. Last year, only the difference was made between breaking up talks or interrupting discussions. That's what I'm talking about. A senator aware that Iceland is still on the list of candidate states? That's what I'm talking about. A senator aware that this has meaning to the European Union? And again I ask why. A senator just to make it clear: Does he accept the idea that the lawsuit of the Honourable Minister is legitimate? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u168	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson has to accept that I choose the words I like. I think government ministers can also choose what they want. What I refer to in this regard to the content of the Senate resolution proposal last year is that the points there are different from those found in this letter. There are other ways in which things are addressed, and that is why they are formalities, if we are able to say things that apply to the letter and to the Senate arrangement not necessarily the same. On the other hand, the two different ways here are being carried out, on the other hand, by a synoptic proposal and by a letter, are based both on the political policy of the government, which is the same in both cases, but the rules around it, of course, are different because the approach is different.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u169	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. A candidate for his speech and for the talks that have been delivered today. It has been done in many of these cases, as well as in the same doctrine, and usually in these cases, point to what has happened before and before, and to this and other proposal. Before the last election, the Independence Party and all his placards in all the elections promised that they would produce a national agreement on continuing discussions with the European Union during this most ideal period and during the first part of the term period. This is what it's all about for me. This is what it's all about for people who are protesting in the East. This is what 85% of the people want to talk about, according to polls. But we're going here on all sorts of legal issues and stuff that no one understands and neither do I myself, I'll admit it. I ask the senator, who, on my behalf, is one of the most honest members of the country, and has the responsibility to be honest, he is up - to - date: How does he feel about betraying the nation? That the Independence Party, which is in Icelandic politics and has always been in both foreign and non - state affairs, is betraying one of the largest campaign campaigns ever given? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u170	V.E.G. President. This subject has been discussed considerably. I have said on various occasions that, in view of the events, the wording of various excommunicators of the Independence Party was unfortunate, in view of the fact that when men formed the government, they concluded that it was really impossible to fulfill these promises, as the words put it. During the last week, the leader of the Independence Party said that he would have overstimulated the outcome. However, I refer to the acceptance of Independence Party policy at 2013 meeting, which has actually been developed since then, is different, i.e. It is not expected conclusively that any decision taken regarding the outcome of the case will be made by national regulations but only that a national agreement should be made in case of continuation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u171	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his answer. For me, it's not about any domestic meetings at the Independence Party. That's not what it's about. It's about national willingness. It's about the public will. The independent party and the advance party made Europe their case off the table during the last campaign because they promised an election that they would make a national agreement. It's so simple. It's just deception and nothing more. People are being fooled. I feel very sad when the Independence Party, which claims to be a foundation in Icelandic politics, lies overwhelmingly on people. That's the way it was. You're talking about political impossibility, but he's not there. If the people decide to continue their business with the European Union, the government will. It is for enforcing the national will. We are the clan at a council of the nation, and then the council chooses the government. If the government isn't ready to go on national missions, it's moving out and making a new election. It's just that way. It's simple, and you shouldn't lie and cheat.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u172	V.E.G. President. I think it's only a matter of singing down in this discussion and looking at this kind of realistic view. During the last term, there was a government government in the country, which had the responsibility to follow the terms of membership. There was a disagreement on this matter between the party groups, and particularly much opposition from certain members of the council and the rest of the group, and it has long been claimed to have caused significant problems in this regard. Then I ask: How should a government in which no Minister supports involvement in the European Union and in any part of Congress that clearly objects to the European Union to follow up on the case? [[Up front.]] This is so that in the countless stages of the environ ment, political decisions and political responsibilities must be made that such discussions will not be followed unless those in it have to do so wholeheartedly and exercise faith in the work assigned to them. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u173	A respectable president. This is a sad subject, but it has also become atrocious. It's a little low at the highest. Secretary of state, the government, the conduct of international Icelanders, I feel that I experience it in this matter. V.E.G. The minister of state goes to a meeting in Slovakia, handing over his somewhat secret letters from the government, as Iceland's foreign minister considers it to be a resignation or a reinstatement of Iceland's memberal parish. Then there is a media representative of the enlargement director of the European Union where the media agent declares that this is not a valid recall for Iceland's application. V.E.G. Secretary of State, the national secretary of state, says the media officer of the enlargement is out in the field. I think this is one of the lowest points in the foreign affairs of the Icelanders in the past. The national secretary of the foreign affairs has come to the press chief of the Magnums in Brussels about how to interpret a letter he took to a meeting in Slovakia. This, of course, illustrates the extent to which this case has become a subject for Iceland's government and, in many respects, for the Icelanders. Of course, it is clear that Iceland's application is not being canceled, but it is quite possible. There is no one in itself to argue that a minister of foreign affairs may write a letter stating the right attitude of a government in which he lives, that the government is not going to participate in business talks while she is sitting. It has just been so fast that there are no talks at the moment, but they haven't been broken. It is very important to speak clearly in politics, very important to speak clearly when you are the foreign minister of the Icelanders. I find this matter particularly important, and it is especially true that there is some kind of learning about how important it is to speak clearly. Why is this so much heat at the council? Why do so many members of the council feel compelled to talk about the President's conference board and to talk about these matters when they arrive here? This is not just because EU involvement is social heat and has been in the past decades, it is not just because of that. This is especially because humans have not spoken clearly, they have not been honest, and they respect certain basic processes of democracy. There is no doubt that the government, the one present, can end the discussion, but it must comply with the accepted rules. For example, she or those of the class who claim that the government should have declared it in the last election, when they took the authority to the nation, that they would break up the discussion. They did not. No one who now sits as a minister declared it, it was not part of the course of these classes, they did not tell the voters to end the discussion. Thus, regardless of all law, all we're talking about is honesty, talking only about democracy, the government groups didn't accept democratic authority in one of the nation's major issues, in some of the biggest solutions and issues of the nation. They don't have democratic authority. They didn't accept it. They were in hand, these men who volunteered for 2013 on behalf of their troops, the forwarding party, and the independence party, to declare that if they went to the government, if they went into government, they would end the discussion. They did not. Why not? Because they may not have received such a good vote. It was not the nation's will to break up the discussion. There have been studies, well over 80% of the people want to continue the discussion, do not want to end them. And there is clear evidence to that effect. People are up to date, I think, getting tired of the debate over whether we should be members of the European Union or not, they want to get a deal, and they want to take sides in a contract, as many other countries have done. That is why those who volunteered for the governments during the last election never said that they were going to break up the discussion. That's why it's such a heat business here, because the government didn't take the authority, she didn't. However, the government said that they would allow the people to vote for who should continue the discussion. The reason this is so hot is because the government is determined to betray that promise without a conscience. Now I'm not just talking about what happened before the election. It is not even in the government covenant to break up the conversation, it is not even there; it does not mean that we should not interrupt. It is said that the talk will be interrupted, and they will not continue unless the national bill has been suspended. That's what they say. In a bright future, we have said: "All right, we are ready to accept it. We have made an amazing agreement in this case that we are ready to accept what the government covenant says, we are ready to do so. Thus, when the government tries to end the discussion, it does not even enforce its own government covenant. Of course, all of this is remarkable. Then, at this time, this unprecedented contingency will come to the council. She's been dropped, I think. I think it failed because it is crystal clear, no matter what language you are trying to use, the party address has not been terminated, the application has not been retracted. The discussion is interrupted, and that in itself is something that everyone knew. What did the General agree in 2009? It agreed to commit the government to apply for membership in the European Union and to have discussions. This was carried out by an application to the European Union. You see, this is not just the Congress resolution of the Generals, it's also an international case. This is a government warrant and a request for the government and it is commissioned to apply a application to the European Union. Then there were 27 different European countries who, according to their democratic means, took sides with the application, and they all agreed. In some cases, as in Germany and Lithuania, an agreement was required, but everywhere, based on democratic capital princes, Iceland's membership attendance was approved. This is done by the authorship of the General Assembly. This is an international case, this is General's statement that we are going to have this position. That position will be changed only by the resolution of the General Assembly and by the promises of the administrations, of course, by national law. It is quite remarkable to hear this talk about government foreign affairs. The government has taken over, she will take them into account, but it will only do with the authority of the Generals. When a man crosses a church resolution that is in force on the II Parliamentary website, we hardly need to discuss it any further, that can hardly be the issue of the highest level. Secretary of state, sir. President of the State Department that the government will do nothing in foreign affairs except by the authority of the Generals. All of the EEA is a concierge and all of them begin: The General Assembly of the Icelanders allows the government to confirm the decision of the EEA Committee. Or the EES joint committee or whatever it is said. This is also the case in all agreements between us and other nations, in fishing, in free trade agreements, and in the rest. The General allows the government to confirm free trade agreements with China. The government's not gonna do anything about it. If the government's going to cancel the free trades with China, that's an independent decision, the authorship of the Generals. I can't even believe we're discussing this. It's obvious. If we're going to change some of Iceland and Norway's contracts about fishing from the silhouettes or something like that, which the General Council has authorized the government to do, we have to have authority to do it here. That's just the way it is. Is anyone else saying anything else? The same is true: Of course, if the Allied Parliament agreed to Iceland, internationally, in contact with the EU, an application state must be made as well as an adjustment to that decision. Just as the government would need the Al Parliament's warrant if it did not require any EEA release, for example, I can't see anything else. This is the very essence of the government's being converged. Besides, we don't necessarily have to discuss the law in this. Let's talk about how healthy politics is. What's this supposed to be? The government is not a part of the nation, the Ministers are not elected by the people. The Congress is a national standing, elected by the nation, and it goes to them for commission. This is the best government organization in the republic. If the council were one man, he'd be dictator, he'd be in charge. Here the decisions are made, and we are distributing the power to Special Agent 63. It is to be respected. It's such a key to pursuing politics, and when you say you respect democracy, it's to respect this institution. I feel I have seen in recent days that respect is clearly lacking. I think it's serious. I think it's something we really need to clean and discuss, because it has to be absolutely crystal clear that the council talks. Of course, the government supports more things, but it must take more part in individual matters, we must respect protocols. The government cannot say: We have more things, so we don't have to vote. This part needs to be tested, that's what respect is. Otherwise, we're in total trouble. A respectable president. Speaking clearly is of utmost importance. For the EU, it is shocking to see what both member groups have spoken inexplicable terms. It's sad. Prior to the election in 2009, the advance team had its policy plan to apply for involvement in the European Union. He wasn't talking about votes for it or anything like that, it was supposed to be applied for involvement in the European Union. The decision to apply for membership was strongly based on the decision made by the State Department from January 2009 to apply for membership. The advance team then reverses that policy immediately after the election. Prior to the election in 2013, the advance party promises a national agreement on the continuation of the discussions. And he's going to go against it after the election. If you want something in Europe, if you want to cut out a few words, you should speak clearly and follow the rules of democracy, but don't go back into this. [[The president calls.]] That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u174	V.E.G. President. Because of what? A senator began to talk about the value of the synonym arrangement, although both of us are reluctant to use the legal device from the council hearing, to remember that Congress laws differ in this matter. This is discussed both in the opinions of the State Department lawyers and in the opinion of the General lawyer on this subject, including There is a distinction between Congress resolution guidelines supported by constitution or law, as there is sometimes a direct requirement for certain decisions made by a synonym. It belongs, for example. to validate national agreements, business contracts, fishing contracts and participation in international institutions, etc. It simply requires that it be decided on the arrival of Generalis in the Senate arrangement. Such suggestions are of more value than a declaration that must be viewed as a declaration of some kind or a recommendation to a minister or a government. In the same light, when this discussion is considered, it is not possible to talk about the matter more clearly, in the same way, and it is not that the matter is brought to a clearer light. But I refer back to the groups' opinions on this subject, the state of the council resolutions varies in this respect. The other is another matter, as I have previously said during the discussion, to count the council, or individual senators, or more of the council that a minister will go against the council in some matter. There are some options in this regard. This is made clear by the Council of Congress, which means that a minister can only serve by a council or at least stand by him in office. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u175	A respectable president. I was in my speech to point out the qualities of this synonym in which it is discussed and it is in international matters, and thus is, I suppose, very similar to the rest of the Convention's consonants proposals for international relations. It's not just a synonym that was accepted here, it was democraticly agreed here, it must be because it included the message being sent to other countries, and we received in the power of this Senate resolution a certain status in conversation with other countries. You see what I mean? Senator? It's an understanding of the state of international Iceland. In that sense it is very similar to the rest of the church odors on the same subject. I find it very special to try to use someone like that in a legal way to prove it otherwise. I also find it very special during the general debate that such a tremendous, rich, democracy is being prepared for the approval of the Council of 2009 as well as the application of political and democratic treatments on all conclusions and decisions regarding future relations with the European Union. They are to lead the nation, and so on, along the streets, can be left in the case of government officials. But now, when this big decision is to be made or to take, or to try to break up, the very large decision, a very large foreign - political decision that would change these status of Icelanders in the internationally, there is no requirement for controversy treatment, there is no requirement for the arrival of the people. This is a contradiction in the discussion. So I'd like to say that it is naturally incredibly exhilarating to the Congress order that a minister can only do what he wants, provided he is not distrusted.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u176	V.E.G. President. I refuse that this is an expedient interpretation of the Congress order because it is the very essence of the Congress. This is the essence of the Senate. Of course, if the core is identified in the Congress, then this is the remainder of the matter. This is the difference between each country and the state of Congress, i.e. Whether a minister needs to support more parts or at least the neutrality of the council to continue. That's the point. Of course, people can hang more on this in both political and theoretical discussions. However, in terms of the situation compared to other national rights agreements, the requirement for meeting attendance in the form of Congress is always based on confirmation or participation, i.e. that it is at the point where it is time to make a conscientious decision on the involvement or validation of a contract that is required for a Senate resolution, not about anything else that happens along the way or through the process. For example, when it comes to negotiations with someone, whether of business or of other items, it is not a administrative requirement for starting the journey with a pact proposal. It's about the end point. It's about the decision at the end of the day that makes some commitment. What is included in the letter of a foreign minister is in no way comparable to this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u177	A respectable president. I'm not sure what to do with it. A senator was trying to say, no more than I understand the highest letter. Secretary of State, other than I know that Iceland is still an application state because a decision in this room has not been made to cancel the application. That's what I'm talking about. A senator saying that because of this different legal office of the council arrangement, in a legal sense it would not have been necessary to apply for involvement in the European Union? I mean, I could understand that there is really a lot of lack in the Senate sense over the senator's head, even such a big decision to apply for membership in the European Union, it could have been taken only by letter, wouldn't it? Okay, maybe it's in some narrow legal sense, in the opinion of the senator, but would that be true? Would it have been right to use the same terms of democracy as with the Senate on that decision, as it were? Does a senator appear to be ready to do so now? Retracting the application is one of the larger foreign decisions during the time. And if a letter is sufficient, then a letter must have enough to apply. But in this light, of course, you can see in the error and folly of this discussion, and it's very important not to get lost in such a legal situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u178	Madam President. Thank you. A senator shakes a speech. I agree with him that it looks very attractive when foreign affairs are in that position on the top of Iceland. The minister of state is standing in the press with a journalist in the country. I also agree completely with him that proposals for such large litigation should not be considered the same as with each other's proposals. This is one of the biggest decisions made in Iceland's republics history and this decision followed by her since Iceland's special office. This includes the fact that if the government, now seated or the next government, decides to adopt the release pressure, it can and will continue its discussions, an agreement for many will be established to create economic stability here. By not considering Iceland to be an application state and especially to end the process, as some ministers might have thought they were at the beginning of the last week, we're giving up this position. That's a lot of damage to Iceland. That's why it's so important that this flight has been fired in a way that the water's at the highest level. Secretary of state to port, and he has agreed that there is no change in policy. It's very important. It was an understanding of why. A senator, and I agree with that understanding. Then I have something to say, which I'll come later to my speeches today, about the matter of Congress, but I just want to correct my attitude toward the Senate and ask why. A senator would not agree that just the change in attitude toward democracy, which began in 2009, had made changes in the situation and promoted such major decisions as these, if not personally. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u179	A respectable president. Yes, if something good comes out of those days, it may be a prerogative that major decisions should be made by the national or national representatives and that this attempt to make a decision by other means of such a big matter has failed. It can be viewed as a positive step, if I understand a question. A senator's right. But there's also something I want to say because I feel it's extremely important not to end these talks. It is the course of the bright future to complete these talks, get a contract on the table, and carry it under the nation. Thus, we would like to bring this case to a conclusion, and we would like the deal to be so good that the nation could accept it and we could become members of the EU. But we would accept another conclusion if it was democratically taken and after an open discussion. I feel that there is a fundamental element that must not be forgotten, that it is an amazing penalty for democracy in this country and the politicians somehow that we cannot finish this process and allow the nation to rule it. I also feel like this letter, to the highest. A foreign minister - now gone, seems to me - seems to think that in some way he has terminated his discussion. There's this kind of thread in me that thinks it's just fine that he looks so good. Then he won't be any more disturbing about these matters for now, and we'll just let him keep it. It may just be a good idea, then, that we are not telling him anything more. Of course, he hasn't stopped them yet.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u180	Madam President. I disagree. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson's son to the highest. A minister of state would consider him to have cut off these talks. He may have counted it part of the last week, but he was at least home and began to think as if he were known this morning on the morning radio when he said something that he repeated in a material way to me earlier today. They were that he agreed that there were no governmental issues that could lead to the immediate future. paritaprevir For example, Guðmundur Steingrímsson would be the secretary of state to vote and take up his talks again would be an antidote. There is a milestone, especially for the way up to this voyage was laid. And then I wake up. A senator to take over the senator who stands here, the 4th. Smoke. ......., to the example, and to the joy of looking at the bright side. What has been accomplished? The European language has been awakened from hibernation. It's made 8 y'all. ... acommunication. The Europeans and I are being distracted and, in effect, a gold guarantee that the national policy on continuing discussions will be the main subject of the next election. It has almost been arranged for a fine slice of one side of the Independence Party to appear during these days as a restoration. This morning, the group was declaring support to our views of the subsequent national decrees. It's worked out, so I'd like to say it in the best interest of the day. A senator to me, when I look over the last week, is the highest. The Minister of Foreign Affairs, kind of an employee of the week. He's achieved changing the political situation here in Iceland. Harold Wilson, British prime minister, once said that a week was a long time in politics, but the highest. Minister of State has completely changed the state of the government and changed the state of our Europeanists in four days. Now let us see what happens during the three days that still need to be done to make the week full.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u181	A respectable president. I share the joy of it. A senator in this regard, I feel that Europe's affairs have been well planned and thanks to the highest speed of flumbrush. Secretary of state for the cause. I also rejoice to be here on a sunny day, finally after the lowdowns, to discuss the situation. A senator who is in charge of the highest order. Secretary of state may be thinking. I agree with him on that, but.... Senator, I'm afraid there's a lot of verbal exchange. Secretary of State to the Magnum Manager's media - where the first foreign minister's response was to say that the media agent was out in the field - being done at the highest level. Secretary of State saw that this letter was not sufficient to retract Iceland's application to the European Union. That really is, and I think from our point of view, the director of the enlargement is also the employee of the week, that he took part in telling the Iceland's foreign minister about the nature of the letter he was delivering in Slovakia. So I hope, and therefore, it is very important that these talks have not yet been terminated, that any time these talks can be completed, brought home with a contract to Iceland, where we can take sides in a democratic process, and hopefully a careful process, informed process, whether we want to, the Icelanders, become members of the EU or not. And I'd like to think that I think it's one of the biggest stigmas of the present government that she can't, it's absolutely impossible to go into this democratic, open process. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's awesome.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u182	President. The last days have been amazing in every way. According to government reviews, the objective of the government by this highly reputed letter is to explain the situation. If it is the objective of the government to explain the situation, it has failed completely because I think people are very confused. A lot of people don't realize it. I've heard people think we're breaking up. Many who call at the Revolution and Radio History think that membership has been terminated, but at the same time, the following was presented at a meeting of the Secretary of State for Ministers: Foreign Ministers have had discussions with the European Union and it is important that a foreign committee receive detailed information on the nature of the agreement and what lines were put there. According to the minister, it has been found that there were no memos, which constituted a fraction of formality in important issues. This was precisely criticized in a report by the General Commission on how to cope and the consequences of the collapse of the bank. But in answer to the highest. A minister from this morning showed that it matters what the words are used, whether these words are spoken of as ◯slite, a danger, a fall back to their way, because, in his view, these words have a similar meaning. At the same time, his evaluation that it is important that when we arrive at this place in the process, we try to apply in such ways that we will not destroy something in the long future. In view of the minister's opinion, it is clear in the letter that Iceland is no longer an application state, in the opinion of the Minister, that is the will of the government, and at the same time the secretary has petitioned the European Union to respond appropriately. President. That would be of great benefit if it were to be the highest. A minister of state could explain the proper reaction to the European Union. That's when they said the highest. Ministers that two lines of letters could have been written and said: we've already pulled, pulled back, quit, or something like that. However, according to the minister's answers, he chose to go another way to Iceland and will be able to cooperate with the European Union. Similarly, a minister explained in the conversation he had with a fellow worker in the European Union today that he had discussed with this coalition about the will of the government. He did not talk to the council, he did not speak to the State Department until after and after that comment is not enough at a council teaching him in Congress. However, a minister said what the government's will was and that they wanted it to be accomplished in the way it was to be done. Finish what? A full and natural understanding of what it is being completed is not yet possible. Hv. A senator and a former minister of foreign affairs asked specifically about the structured process and asked for memos and other items that might be available in the Ministry, but the minister's response was that men had not exchanged any formal memos. I'd like to direct the question to President if there's no such thing as a normal process. [[Up front.]] I find this very remarkable, too, in view of the fact that all of us senators, all of us, agreed on a conclusion as to how we were going to react to the collapse. This led to more formality in order to prevent a minister from doing the sort of maladies that could lead to a restoration of national justice. Let us not forget the importance of formality. It was one of the main objectives of which we senators, both Ministers and private senators, were designed to learn from the report of the Council of II's Research Committee. What impressed me most about this morning was that he said that it was a conversation that took place to explain the will of the government and to find out how a letter like this would be handled. It seemed like the big news and the biggest news at the meeting this morning. Of course, a minister said that the European Union could not tell the government how to react to such a letter, but it was the opinion of the government to test it. That's the news. I find this truly remarkable in view of the fact that I asked a final question at the meeting where I wanted it to be crystal clear as to what was going on because I couldn't understand it and I don't think anyone can understand what's going on. On one hand, the highest. The right to say that the aim was to reset the process, however, he claims to have been in consultation with his colleagues from his dangerous and horrible European relationship on the best way of handling matters so that nothing was permanently damaged. I think the Minister of Foreign Affairs needs to explain to his colleagues at World Vision what's going on. I just find it so amazing how letters can be written and carried out with some unrecognizable intent because the intent or purpose is doubled. The main reason for the government's going into this process was so clear and clear how Iceland was going to conduct its affairs against the European Union and that it wanted to be taken from the list of application countries, but really the government was just asking to be taken off the list. It seems that the only thing that matters is that the government can keep face on the part of those who are opposed to the matter. I have to say, Mr President, that I think it's an ugly game to upset the whole community, to walk aside from Congress just to have Iceland taken off some list. But at the same time, it seems that the government's aim was to take Iceland off the list but to continue with the situation so that nothing would be closed and the next government could then continue its terms. So I would like to say, Mr. President, and I think it's extremely important that the only way we can go in a piece of shit like this, where democracy's feet are so failing, is that we have to call for aid from the people. We must get help from the nation to find out where we are going as a council. We're going to go to the public for our commission. No matter what category, everyone who chose has authorized us to stay here to protect and protect everyone's interests, not just some particular little gang somewhere that starts with H. So I challenge the Minister and the Government and all the senators who were with me on the Senate resolution proposed on 19 October 2010 - Vigdís Hauksdóttir, who calls me today my left scoundrel, says in his synony proposal to which we were on, including why. Ásmundur Einar Daðason Parliamentary Directives the proposal to make a resolution on the National Reunion and Relations Act of Iceland and the European Union. An essay in the conclusion reveals something quite remarkable. That's why I'm surprised that it's the forward party that goes so hard against democracy, considering how much it is when they know that their language doesn't go through. By permission of the president, the paper concluded: It is obliged to do the will of the Generals. Hear this, chief. Secretary of state? The Commission is obliged to follow Generalis's will and to start preparatory work on the application following the approved application. [...] ▪ In a report by the Interpretation Committee of the II Parliament, - and now I am making comments. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir - ◯er hard criticism of the European Commission and the implementation of the European Commission, and it is noted that counter-impliment is needed. The Parliamentary Committee of Congress will reach the same conclusion. Direct suggestions for reform have been provided in the form of a synonym approved at the General Assembly. It is thought that the Allied council will strengthen their independence to this point - you will hear it, Supreme One. Secretary of state? - And a basic role. Review of core legislation in the field of administration, administration and financial markets. Then there'll be a law on Iceland's Penitentiary, UNECE and other health care providers, as well as press and university legislation, to name something. It should be carried out independently, independent of the investigation of pension funds and the cause of the fall of savings in Iceland. Then it says why. Senator: It has been proposed by the Council to withdraw the application for involvement in the European Union. A general council alone has the authority to retract the application, but it is reminded that the same matter is now as with the application's approval. You see, there's something really important going on around here. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir: ▪ The Council alone has the power to retract the application. What's changed, boy? Secretary of state? Thus, this proposal for national law to continue the discussion process of Iceland and the European Union is an attempt to make peace. I'm still conveying words. paritaprevir Hauksdóttir, the Hawkdotttir. The majority of the members of the general body do not reflect the greater part of the nation on the position of member countries in the European Union. This, therefore, is based on the fairness of the proposal. If they have to agree to apply for membership in a national law of payment on the basis of this council arrangement, the government has received a clear mandate, not before. Then, with the permission of the president, it goes on to say: A contract of the United Nations is an established method to produce national willingness in important matters. A national agreement on whether to continue the discussion process of Iceland and the European Union is a major cause of national interest. All political groups speak for the increased democracy and the approach of the nation to decision - making, especially for major issues. Now is the time to do what is right. President. I would like to point out that the national will for this matter is very clear. This was a remarkable survey of surveys that began on Sunday, February 23, and ended on Sunday, April 27, after Easter. Thus, the assembly lasted a total of 63 days and is directed to us all 63 members of the council. I want less than ever. The minister says he's a senator. The challenge is this: We're signing scores at the General Assembly to set aside a proposal to make a resolution to Iceland's application for membership in the European Union and to make a national bill. This question will be asked: Do you want to complete the European Union's member case, which began with the decision of the Council on July 16, 2009, or do you want to end it? I want less than ever. The minister of foreign affairs is that 22% of the voters signed this challenge during a two - month period of 53,555. I'd appreciate it if the government were to reverse this humble letter, which has no meaning but to dust the European Union's fierce opponents and shun their national will. V.E.G. A government with the highest power. Prominent prime minister has often referred to the need for a national agreement on important matters, as made clear in my speech, where I spoke against words. paritaprevir Hauksdóttir, the Hawkdotttir. So I'd like to direct them to the highest recommendations. Minister of State that he accepts the challenge of my part of the Council, which will be submitted here in the next few days to the people who call for an opportunity to make such a decision, to have their will carried out by a national vote that will take place on autumn days.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u183	Mr. President. Thank you. Especially for giving us this fine talk each time. paritaprevir Vigdís, daughter of Hauksdóttir, I'd forgotten. I didn't realize that this is where it feels. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir recorded in Congress that the Council is the only scene where our decision can be retracted in 2009. In other words, w. A senator's saying that, learned a lawyer, as if she now didn't tire of reminding us here, the fine bang. Our sister, that she feels that a special assembly arrangement will be submitted to be made so that one can be broken. Who knows? Maybe she was the one who came to the highest senses. Secretary of state, I don't know. I want to thank you too. A senator for the cutthroat analysis of what's going on at the highest level. Minister. She said that the goal is to be able to return home from Brussels with a simple career. But on the other hand, she took us off from a list of candidate states and can say to a world view: "Look how hard I was. Then it will come back to us as the highest. The minister said here today; taking Iceland off the list of applicants means only two things. First, we do not receive an invitation to attend a meeting that we have already stopped attending. Secondly, we will not be consulted on certain common issues as a candidate State but as an EEA State. Then I'll ask why. Senator: Who was being deceived? Was it really so that the purpose was one; I draw them from the word why. A senator, playing World Vision, and letting the poor people out there think they had a leader in the highest. A minister of the State thinks that he was achieving its objective when his goal was, after all, to keep his career unchanged? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u184	President. I appreciate the answer. It's always nice to have a place to say. Senator and former secretary of state, Össur Skarphéðinsson. I've been thinking a lot about this, putting in information related to this case and listening carefully to the council, listening carefully to how some interpret it, and some viewpoints, including the U.S.A. The President of the Generals on the value of the synonyms. Looks like it's all there is. A senator was right. This is actually a Kasmian operation that has no meaning, but we must not forget which is the declared intent of action. To go to parenthood - this is such an expensive ultimatum for Congress. That's what I find most difficult to swallow because I now use the opportunity to unplug the frame. It's an expensive breakthrough to appease a few souls. In spite of the correction and all of this, the advance team has been very discouraged by polls. [[Up front.]] This may be a way to get the tail up, I don't know. I don't know what's going to happen to the secretary of state and advance, but I hope we'll find a clear answer when a minister arrives in a speech chair.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u185	Mr. President. I'm not sure that's necessarily the ultimate goal. Minister. I don't see it now, considering the great enchantment that we have received of the people and have enjoyed for a long time, that they will cast out many votes on this. I don't think so. So I'll come to the top. Minister only in defense, could it be that he was placed in an impossible position? We know it's the highest. In the early part of the year, the prime minister was asking a considerable excess of power and declared that a proposal would be proposed. Who should make that suggestion? Of course. Minister of state, put in it the king's iron and peninsula. We also know this from the community of the General Assembly that it was not a great sound for the members of the Independence Party. Is it possible to do the best? Secretary of state has been in this jam, to the highest level. Prime Minister has demanded that the case be officially closed to the EU, i.e. with fractures, at most. The minister of finance has disagreed, and has he tried this challenge? It's possible, and that's maybe the only explanation I have for why the highest. Minister's going on this voyage. It is clear that he was very uncertain about it himself. I don't recall ever saying that one minister had many opinions about his own letter. V.E.G. Minister signed this letter. At times, a person felt as if he had hardly read it, and he did not understand it. I don't think that's the case. He just landed the case. I think that was the way, that I could come home and say, "This is the equivalent of breaking up." But like a dog. A senator points out that his career is being preserved. All that happens is to the highest. Ministers are in trouble and have a word-and-tell with the European media official.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u186	President. It's impossible to read properly in these tea leaves, but I still have to say that I find it extremely embarrassing. A lot of foreign media have contacted me in order to get an explanation of what is going on. I don't really know how to answer. I think it's really embarrassing. Then I'd like to mention one point that we received a tip about a person on our favorite text page. That's an indication and a point worth maintaining. And because I'm particularly inspired by a man. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir I'd like to mention here Icesave. Icesave was such a national agreement that was not necessarily in harmony with what the government wanted, but the government was moved to enforce the decision of that national law. There was a great transpoleic journey, and I don't have a count on how many meetings I had with those in charge of the government to find a solution. Therefore, I feel that the government has no pity for me, although the nation confirmed its will to continue in this process. It is not being demanded to go and open the seabed, but to continue the process. I think it would be a great thing for the government if she would listen to the people's will. I was at a government stand that called for the national pay during the last term, and I'm in a position of government now calling for national pay on big political issues that cannot be solved here. We know that. We're not capable of doing that. I just hope the advance party listens to Vigdís Hauksdóttir in this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u187	A respectable president. We'll discuss a verbal report on the implementation of the government on EU Member States policy, current policies in a letter to the EU. The key elements of this letter are: 1st The government has no plans for reinitiating Memberal discussions. 2. This policy replaces commitments to previous governments in connection with Memberal negotiations. 3. That Iceland should not be considered an applicant country and the EU's layer of work on it. This has concluded the operation that began in 2009, and it has become clear that the government does not view Iceland as an applicant state. It's supposed to be a celebration. An interesting discussion of the nature of the case has been presented here, i.e. Whether the Minister has been permitted to issue the government's policy in writing to the EU without wearing it specifically under the State Department. Politicians agree that the government has complete governmental authority. Experts'analysis is clear on this subject and available. The impact of the Senate arrangement is based only on the strength of Congress that is behind them at any given time, nor can it bind a council of the future. The concept of Congress is presented in 2009. It contained a lot of warning and the government that was then in power repeatedly gave itself the right to cancel the application. If the synopsis was binding, as some would like to say here, then the divorce must also be allowed to end business matters at any time. So whether the synopsis is in force or not, the government is in full right to end the membership application. It has also shown that the democratic authority of the application was very weak. Did the left green commissions of its voters to meet such members of the Member States have spoken their full necks against involvement in their campaign campaign? On a TV show the day before the election, the chairman of the left green refused because an application was possible. Despite the weak democratic authority, the first government did not want to correct it and issued proposals to carry the Member State's application under a national law. However, let's switch from form to subject itself to the EU membership process that we no longer wish to participate in. All over the past few years have shown that the nation is not interested in participation in the EU, but there must be a prerequisite for such discussions. In fact, attitudes have shown that people are curious to see what would come out of negotiations about participation, but the fact is that the EU has ceased to offer probe talks after the Norwegians twice in the national law, and no one in Norway is thinking of starting such a business for the third time. After the fall of the EU in Norway, the enlargement department seems to have invented a new rhythm. It's starting to start backwards. 1st Governments could now apply for participation in the EU without first asking the nation. 2. Adjustments begin to be made to the EU's regulations without asking its people and with all its costs. 3. Set the opening and closing conditions on the sections and store the most difficult until the end to improve the possibility of compromise. During full-time adaptation, changes are being made in the market and in the presentations. Instead of giving democracies, members of Congress, and yes- and no-parties time to address the evidence by and against the EU's involvement, the EU was tempted to move on with the yes movement. The EU offered key introductions to Brussels, all included. Injected billions of dollars to strengthen selected issues, the scholarships were called adaptation grants. Set up a publicity company in support of EU Member States, a room called the European Union, and used hundreds of millions to present the options and benefits of the European Union. Meanwhile, self-opposed yes-and-no-mowers had little to share their argument and point of view. The EU's activities are sobering in view of the fact that a national law on membership and in view of the fact that the Vienna Treaty prohibits the intervention of states in each other's national affairs. The political party law specifically forbids classing the financial resources from foreign sources to introduce their views. Obviously, it is very much needed. But is it all right, then, that a foreign party will begin a major presentation work in behalf of the main political debates? In my opinion, this is a question the Senate needs to examine further in view of available experience. But back to the adaptation process. The final part of this animal and an irrefutable adaptation process was that when everything was really ready and adaptable, then a suitable time point would finally be chosen to ask the nation's permission, they would ask if they wanted to join the EU, but it would be just a formality because, in fact, Iceland's sovereignty would be coming to Brussels and perhaps just an empty trouble to move it back. But what were the expectations of the EU and the application? Have they stood in any way? The subjects were to take 16 months and found themselves stranded after 40. Exploratory discussions turned out to be a process of adaptation. Eran was supposed to be a solution, but it proved to be an insoluble problem. The mild EU to assist Member States in problems has not been identified in the difficulties of Greece. There's hard work there alone. The EU used itself against Iceland's interests in the Icezave case. The Irish were given the debt of private banks in that country. They got no choice. Is the EU more democratic than Iceland? We're calling for a direct democracy here. Is there a direct democracy in the EU? I haven't heard of it. Is there a unique national law there? Not at all. Is it not said that it is a democracy? Government officials, whom no one has chosen, place all the laws there. No one can choose them away. The attendance was said to improve the country's image after a crash. Reports say that the application has now been reactivated, canceled, or how to call it, is an indication that we are able to stand on our own. It is the strength of Iceland to have refused this Memberal application. In the years since the Member State's application, it has been clearly demonstrated that the EU is not a solution to Iceland's problems. Even former secretary of state, Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson, one of the main members of the EU, says that the EU is on the wrong track and that Iceland is not going into that coalition at all. Member of the EU has become such an unpopular conflict that the actual European Union itself is afraid to call itself the European Union as normal, but calls itself "Yes Iceland." It's all turned upside down in this fight. It is claimed, for example, that the government of Iceland is strengthened by losing custody over large metal groups but replaces 1% of the Parliaments at the European Parliament. Of course, the nation sees through such talk, and members of Congress who had entered their policy list received less than 13% votes during the last election. Those who once claimed to be EU Member States with pride are now pulling ashore and claiming that they just want to see the deal in order to make up their minds. They pretend that the package can still be checked, as Norway did. I remind them again of the parting process I described earlier in my speech and the nature of putting the people before the word when asked for an opinion. But on which way is the EU, do we usually have business in that package, or should I say a problem package? At least once a month, the Black League is predicted to fail, although it has not yet occurred, and no one understands that Greece is not removed, since the euro is far too strong for Greece, as everyone sees. A financial flight is from Greece, and no one understands that it has not yet been capitalized. Schäuble threatens to stop giving money to a Greek bank that would mean the end of the Greek economy as we know it and that kaos would be in Greece. In the European Union there are 24 million unemployed. The Europe of young people is Europe of unemployment. The growing political dissatisfaction is growing, and the EU's institutions in the EU are developing and extreme movements are taking root. Especially in the wake of stringent measures and cuts in countries that have had problems since the 2008 financial collapse. They struggle with much too strong, and instead of receiving support, the bad language is changing between the Germans and the Greeks, a kind of cold war. As I say, Schäuble has threatened democratically elected Greek leaders to turn off the banking system if they fail to submit to the control and orders of the EU. Where is the democracy in it? The British now consider choosing their exits within two years because they have no effect in the EU. Junker, president of the European Commission, has spoken of the need to establish the EU military and the Germans to succeed. Certainly the matter is controversial, but this discussion alone should convince the Icelanders that we have no business with this future military alliance and empire. I'm glad the government's put an end to the membership process, and thank you very much. Secretary of State for finding a way that has led to the important success that Iceland is no longer an applicant state. I'm glad this wretched bellati in Brussels is over. I would also rejoice if the EU would continue to protect the Icelandic nation from further interracial conflicts over independence and sovereignty. What a joy it would be if we could stop wasting our energy dealing with involvement in the EU but take care of all of us to improve the lives of future generations in our contribution and good country!
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u188	Mr. President. In effect, the temperature in this discussion has already been removed. A minister gave his speech today and answered his questions. I believe the bottom line is whether a letter is the highest. Secretary of state has led to some damage to Iceland's situation. That was totally evident in his case, in answer to me earlier today, that it is not. V.E.G. The minister made it absolutely clear when I asked him, and indeed repeated the others here who have spoken from the government, whether there were some administrative material that stood in the way of a new government could if she wanted to adopt the thread where the present broke him. The answer was perfectly clear. V.E.G. The minister said it totally black in white, just as he said in an interview with the Morning Press on Thursday last week, that his letter had in fact not changed anything about it to nothing had been torn and nothing had been broken. That's what matters to me today. I believe that by having the case in that position it is not possible to interpret letters to the highest degree. A minister was different from a polite request, not a requirement, that Iceland be taken from one list of EU candidate countries, while the matter remained in the process of formal negotiations, even if they were on leave. For example, I ask them what is bad. A senator who spoke earlier, Sigurjónsson Sigllionsson, who gave a public talk and explained his point of view, even though there are many things I disagreed with in the talk: Why is this matter not put to the test? A senator said that the process was at hand and shut down permanently? This was the opportunity for world vision, for EU Member States here in the process at least delay, such as the highest. A minister called up earlier today, even about 12 years. But this is not done. What's even happened here today is that one of those things is wrong. The members of the Independence Party, which is, in fact, the most prominent position of independence in foreign affairs, are. paritaprevir The Birgir son of an Ármannsson, looked forward to the road. He asked all those questions. Councilmen who spoke of their willingness to agree that if this expedition was restored, perhaps behind the votes as he put it, it would only be done after passing through a national law. That's what they called him a contact lawn. Then they held back. paritaprevir A Birgir's Ármannsson offers a long, detailed, remarkable talk that he believed it would take some time and would not be able to do entirely immediately, since certain cases that have already been resolved in the contract would need to be reviewed. This is a media view, however, but it shows that even those on that wing of the Independence Party who resist, or who have thought that they had been in dissident, are making shoes so that after the next election, a new government that puts it to the test might begin. I believe it can be attributed to the highest degree. Minister for the way he has handled this matter. It has dawned on me in our discussion today that he may have been placed in an impossible position between the most cloudless demands. Prime Minister on a radio interview to end the discussion with a suggestion here and, on the other hand, opposition within the Independence Party. That is why he could have possibly gone that way. You can feel sorry for the best. Minister for that. On the other hand, political views are fundamental to what one must put to the test. V.E.G. Secretary of state and what. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson, who spoke earlier, has always spoken as if it were their deepest conviction, that it was of little greater importance to the future of Iceland than to prevent it from ever going on in the European Union. Now they had the chance. They did not try. Of course, you must wonder why. Mr. President. Also, there have been significant, administrative discussions. They have learned how to end the separation process. We've heard different opinions about that. Some of them what? Councilmen of the government claim, and even still, that letters are the highest. The Minister is equivalent to the wear and tear. V.E.G. The minister of finance had that opinion in the first few days, the highest. Ministers of foreign affairs as well as the highest. The minister spoke up. On the other hand, I believe that in this matter only one matter was important to us, which is the fact of the highest degree. The president of the council has made a clear decision on his stand. He has said it prepared and stated that it is a big difference between making a suggestion for wear and wear this letter. This suggests that the European Union agrees with the President of the Generals in this regard. If so, it is right to dig only at the point of his viewpoint. Yeah, that's what they've been having fun with. However, I thought it was tictic, even tragaic, to the highest degree. Secretary of state humbled himself and the foreign affairs of Iceland by arguing in the media with the EU press. What was it that the journalist suggested? The fine woman was totally smart that the letter did not make a wish for wear. She had a special privilege, which we members of the Allied Parliament did not have. She knew what was expected of her letter. Secretary of state. It's been informed here today, not by me, but by another senator, and therefore I make the subject, that this morning's State Department has the highest level. A minister reported that he sent his best officers, the Ministry's highest officials, to Brussels to explain its contents to the European Union. In other words, the chairman of the magazine who spoke and then clearly explained how the EU viewed the privileges we did not have to know what the purpose was. It matters. [[Up front.]] In other words, the interpretation was that it was the highest. The minister of state was not trying to end the procedure but to take us off the list of applications. [[Up front.]] Besides, it's got the highest. Ministers of foreign affairs also help us to understand what this involves. [[Up front.]] This includes: We will not be invited to a meeting of candidate states, which we have not attended anyway. And secondly, we won't be consulted under the hat of an application, but under the heads of the EU/EFTA countries. Mr. President. Only on the value of the synonym and on what the European Commission can allow. I've said before -- and that can be the reason. The head of the State Department read in the book at my table, Congress in Iceland, which the Allied Council of Iceland cost in part by the 100th anniversary of the council in Iceland in 2004 - that the Council is the sovereign. That's the highest decision force in Iceland. What does that involve? Of course, certain boundaries defined primarily by a constitution are established, but as it says, by fixed standards that have, in effect, adhered to unwritten rules. Of course, one of them, and the most weighty, is the highest. Ministers have placed their hold on it, and all of us are building our work, that is, the Order of Congress, but it is not written in the Constitution. In the same way, other fixed works have been shaped, which should be taken into account, although it cannot be stated as a direct violation of a constitution, even if not followed. For example, it has been developed as a tradition at the International Assembly of Iceland to take foreign policy in Iceland at the International Parliamentary Council. That is why the foreign affairs, together with two other lawsuits, enjoy a special position in the Constitution. For example, it is clearly stated that national rights have to be confirmed here. It's not like that in the Danish constitution. And this tradition has been shaped by the resolution of Congress, which makes the decision for Iceland's involvement in foreign institutions. Mr. President. In this respect, because my time is running out and I can't go deeper into this, I'm still going to put my hold and trust in the most learned attorney in the Offense, huh? paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, who has said it from this chair that a conquistador proposal for involvement in the European Union will not be changed except by a new council plan. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u189	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss European matters, i.e. emissary report of the secretary of state, letter at the highest level. The secretary of state sent to the EU on the part of the Member States, a letter that is so hairy and difficult to understand, that it seems that no two people read it can reach the same conclusion as what is in it. V.E.G. Secretary of State said earlier today that the application procedure is now over and Iceland is no longer a candidate country. Yesterday, however, it was made, in a statement by the Supreme Court. In 2009, the president of the Generalis concluded that the letter did not cancel the resolution of the Generals. I have to admit, I just get a little confused. This discussion here has in some ways been beneficial, but in other respects, I am not yet quite sure how much this letter that we have spent the day discussing has or what the purpose it really serves. One of the things that might be said to have been of great value to the discussion here today is also very thought - provoking, to say the least of the above. A minister says that the matter is based on a solid administrative foundation and that last night's conference revealed it. I have to say, "I don't agree at all. " On the contrary, I feel that the discussion is the best, especially the highest. Secretary of state, has been a very strange interpretation of Article 1. The constitution that says, with permission of the highest power. President: U.S.A., the country is a republic with a conniving regime. Of the highest order. However, as a minister, I felt as if we could understand that ministers could determine what they would do on the basis of the proposed approval of the Generals. That's how I've never understood how Congress works. [[Up front.]] I said, "This is how I understood what you said." It works in that way - you can come up here and explain what you meant. [[Up front.]] The Senate works by making decisions as to what the Ministers should do or the Ministers are seeking support for the council to implement its policy. Then I must also say that I felt that I had the highest understanding and interpretation. The secretary of state at the General Assembly was equally remarkable, but he said that it was a matter of assessment when a consultation is needed. State Department. However, at the General Assembly, the 24th chapter of Congress clearly states. ... withauthority of the President's permission: The U.S. Department of State shall be the government for the Ministry of Greater Foreign Affairs. If Iceland's involvement with the European Union is not considered to be a major foreign matter, I don't quite know what major issues are involved. Back to the letter. If it is stated, the government's representatives' comments on letters can be given at the highest level. The secretary of state here at the council as well as in the media during the past few days was one of the main purposes of destroying the uncertainty and setting up the clean situation in the relations of Iceland and the European Union. It may be said that this goal has failed miserably. Its most obvious proof is not found in the writings of opposers of this government. On the contrary, it is in the spoken language of by people who follow the government and who have been particularly concerned with breaking up with the European Union. Styrmir Gunnarsson, former editor of the Morning Journal, is a member of the core of the Independence Party in decades past, and one of the pioneers to the institution of World Vision, the Association of the European Union of Iceland - a man I didn't really expect to quote from this office, but good and good - has written some records about letters for the highest power. Secretary of State has his website in the past. Styrmir will hardly be Gunnarsson accused of being a government opponent who plays a game of mistaken conduct. Friday's program was written to the Styrmir entry, saying: "I'm holding a piece of paper in a big language. " It says, by permission of the president: To cancel Iceland's Member States's application to the EU is a relatively simple procedure. In view of the approval of the meeting at the General Assembly in the summer of 2009, the democratic method, of course, was that the council decided to withdraw the application. That was also the conclusion of the government a year ago, when the minister of foreign affairs proposed a synopsis proposal for the matter at a council assembly. And until the last days or weeks, it was obviously the government's plan to make such a proposal again for the council. The article later shows Styrmir the way the government's way of handling the case is not only political weakness but also, by contrast, incontrovertible, that ministers of the government were not afraid to exonerate themselves with the direct words of the Member State's application. He adds that some opposers will have little doubt about it, but this clearly is not the case. V.E.G. President. These are not the words of a harsh government adversary who makes it a game to turn around or to misunderstand the words of government leaders. No, these are the words of one of the most prominent opponents of the European Union and a influential chairman of the other government group, and he ends his case by permission of the President: It is difficult to find any precedent for such an unconcerned case. Styrmir's concern is obvious to me. My guess is that he must wonder, since a seated government thinks he can undo the General Assembly resolution of a simple letter in which the next government, which might be somewhat different, will simply not undo the exact same procedure and probably the next one thereafter ceases to cancel. Everyone must see what nonsense we're in. Therefore, the only thing that can be done in the situation is to bring the matter into the Senate Hall, bring a synopsis and determine what the general will is in this case, and then go to the highest level. Minister to the European Union and therefore recognizes the decision of the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u190	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I have a short question because of what? A senator was here quoting that in his view it was not in accordance with the Congress's order to send such a letter without first meeting with a foreign legal committee. Then I'd like to ask you what. A senator has at his time made comments to the management of the last government and then the foreign minister who sent a letter to the European Union and announced that there was a break in the conversation? Such a letter was sent without a consultation with a foreign press committee. Was it also a violation of the council? Why did the left green not make strong comments to the minister's work, which was then the left - green associate minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u191	V.E.G. President. I didn't sit at the Council, I think I was right when this was, and therefore I didn't share in those discussions. I simply don't know what reasons were there for the way it was handled, so I can't express myself as to what reasoning was meant for sending a letter to interrupt the meeting. My opinion is that it is always better to consult more than less so, so without knowing the background, I would say that I would have found it more reasonable to inform the State Department on this matter, just in view of the fact that I think we should have more than less discussions. But anyway, I don't know what the situation is, and I think it might be possible to stop for an indefinite period of time that was considered a minor foreign case, but it's a much larger matter that's under here today, i.e. to completely stop the party discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u192	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. Then I have a different question because I don't completely figure out the direction of the left green in the European Union. Who is she? Is the senator involved in applying for membership and being involved in the European Union Member States? Is that consistent with the direction of the left green? What would that be? A senator would do if she was a member of the board on this matter? Continue member business ventures, enter the European Union, or what's the policy of left green? I have to admit, I've completely lost the thread in that case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u193	V.E.G. President. It is the policy of the left movement ◯ green supply and estimates that Iceland is better off outside the European Union. That's the policy that was adopted at the last national meeting of the party and that has been our policy. Although there are certainly active individuals within our movements that contradict and speak for entry into the European Union, it is the policy of the movement that we should not join the European Union. However, we have felt that, in the end, we need to determine if we are going to the European Union on national terms and that it is approved by the institutions of the Party to be correct - I think I am absolutely right - to make a national bill of continued negotiations. To us, it is not a problem to want to lead the process to its completion here at the council and then to a national law. We must then work with the outcome of the nation at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u194	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech. So when you were working on this application, you could end the discussion at any time during the period when it would appear to be the next step. Now it appears that it is the next step in which neither government member wants to be involved. It was also said that if we failed to meet our demands, the talk should be canceled. Over the next four years, our requirements have not been met. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether she sees the evil in which the government now does and is guided by the end of the discussion?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u195	V.E.G. President. I appreciate that answer and the question. I think any government can always suggest that at any stage of the matter it might be decided, but, of course, such a decision must be made and the authority must be brought back to the council to do so. It is obvious that for the government to make such a decision, it is always necessary to have the Congress's approval.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u196	V.E.G. President. It is good to hear, for it is a question of whether it applies only when we cut off wood, not when it comes to posting talks and letters from here on out. Then there's another question. I thought it was very misleading when it happened. A senator came up earlier and answered him. paritaprevir Unnur the left-green course of the Konráðsdóttir, the policy of the category was not to enter the European Union, but still to stand here and fight to complete the terms of the Member States. What is the basis for not wanting to walk in the EU if they feel that they already know enough to keep out of contact? I'm really lost in this and I'm asking the senator to explain it to me better.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u197	V.E.G. President. This has been noted in a few cases. Senators today that they are lost in the direction of the left movement, they are offering a green offer when it comes to the European Union. It is, however, that our policy of movement is to complete the parties' talks and then vote for the results of a national law. To answer for myself personally, the European Union in my mind is primarily for the preconceived package, although we may be able to obtain some terms of entry by contracts. I think that's not the big deal, it's the big deal. It's on the basis of him I've developed that I don't want Iceland walking in the European Union. However, now that we are taking the next steps in 2015, I feel very important that the case is being handled as normal and perfunctory, but not at the top. A government makes decisions without checking for the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u198	A respectable president. It is a special pleasure to participate in this conversation that I believe is very important and important. The local senator has endeavored to fulfill his role at the General Assembly and the commission he has been given by sitting here at the Council as best he can. In general, I'm putting a lot of emphasis on coming here to a meeting with a cold head and a hot heart, as it were. In general, it has been successful, even at times, that the smile muscles have been allowed to float along. But the last few days, after the surprising, unexpected news on Thursday night of a letter at the top. The secretary of state to the European Union has to say that the feeling has shifted a little from head to head down to stomach and that you are not free to go. Sadly, the highest recommendations have been made. The minister of foreign affairs and the media and the public field of the last days were not helping to explain the situation to this senator. On Thursday night, my first reaction as a representative of the Exhibit Committee on Foreign Affairs was to request a meeting on the Committee. This morning he became part of a meeting of the Foreign Affairs Committee with a minister. I would like to thank you for that meeting, although, unfortunately, many things have still been vague in my mind after that meeting. However, in this fine discussion today, there have been some things that have been clarified, at least to myself. So I hope that the head is at least just screwing back on this senator, at least the heart is starting to beat. I feel that there are two key and important points in this report by the foreign minister's recent letter, which, unfortunately, he did not see fit to lay before no council or debate. Foreign Affairs Committee before being returned to foreign lands That is exactly the meaning of the letter. Unfortunately, in the media the claims were somewhat misleading about exactly what the letter meant, but I must celebrate what has been presented here, in this chair, especially in the media, that the letter is primarily a court order in the understanding of the government and its known position that it does not approve of working in the European Union. That in itself is not news. However, it is clear to me that Iceland's application has not been formally retracted, so it can be said that we are in a similar location as Switzerland, who introduced applications to the European Union but stopped all actual interviews and may not be seen on the Internet websites of a candidate state, which may be so far along that the Internet may have been discovered when it happened. At least I find this to be a lot of news and doubt about this has been very unfortunate. He has caused much turmoil in the community. I think I'm still in the community because I think there's always been a requirement for us in politics and jobs here in this room to speak clearly, but I think that claim, if anything, is louder today than it was at least here for 2008. I think it's very important that we speak clearly in such important matters. I find it especially important to speak clearly when it comes to dealing with other countries of Iceland, which I think we all agree to be of even greater importance to a small isolated nation than any other nation that may be able to close its size and energy. The other matter I am deeply worried about and have caused myself discomfort, perhaps causing my thinking to go down to my stomach, and it has to be said, as it is, that your bowels have not calmed down perfectly today, which is the highest interpretation. The minister of state in the media and I felt at some point at the meeting of the State Department of State this morning that the state of Congress was really unclear, that it was unclear when it was the legal obligation of the government to follow Alduke's conclusions, when it might be, well, let us not ignore them, but ignore them. But also the other is whether the government is permitted directly against the Generals' votes without first applying it to the Council and then having a new Senate resolution there at the council. I think that there is some uncertainty about the state of Congress and the decision of the Generals -- unfortunately, there was another example here this morning when a greater part of the employment board decided to leave the Commission with a change in law -- is sadly a sign that we are in a administrative crisis that is not just a big problem for the Council and the government who is in the town of the General of the Council, but for the democracy in Iceland. That's a serious matter to me. In the discussion and in the discussion of the situation of the Generals in this hall yesterday, an opinion has been cited frequently made by the Office of the Generalis at the request of the U.S. president of the Council for a certain year, which is the rightful position of the Senate resolution. It says in the results of the summary, with permission of the president: After all, it is the council itself that determines whether it falls apart or changes its conclusion. At the same time, it is in the power to determine whether a government or a minister has followed its conclusions and after experiences of responding in a way that it or more of it thinks is correct. During the discussion, the bottom line has been understood. Secretary of State that he does not necessarily agree with this understanding, that he does not necessarily think he is bound to the council. Since then, there have been discussions here today about what action is legally binding and which are not. Uncertainty of this seems to me to be more serious and call for discussion, not just for the future in Congress but also for the controversies that have been approved and the body of Congress so far is thought to be in force. As noted in the unsupervised inquiry, we called the Minister yesterday to count at least some of the highest ministers. Governments that they are in effect despite elections. This is a serious matter to me. I'd like to agree with the President of the Generals from his speech yesterday in which he said that the 2009 Congress resolution is in effect, and that should change that decision, surely if it is the Senate's decision to do so. Of course, it does not mean that from a previous council above the grave and death, which means primarily that it is Generalis to agree with a conclusion about something else and any attempt to walk past the Council in such matters is serious to me. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u199	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a letter at the highest. The minister of foreign affairs or the question of what the letter was. That may be what we have been discussing since this letter arrived, which was supposed to be some kind of message to the European Union that there were some changes in the government's discussions with the relationship. The talk may have been primarily about how incorrigibly this matter is and how cowardly it is that the word I am going to use is behind the method used to present this letter. I'm going in my speech primarily to discuss these factors and the form and the introduction of the council in relation to the policy that the government itself had proclaimed, that I now do not talk about the promise of an election. During this all - out discussion, there has been a disdain for the council and for fear of both the council and the nation. There has also been secret thinking, which was a popular reputation for former government opposition. Then the government's side was repeated in the administrations, calling all parts secretism, cover up cases, and hangs around them, etc. But this was the case in an attempt to hide this letter from both nation and nation until it was delivered, and it was done in a foreign land. As members of the council, we are required to discuss most of the issues involving Iceland and the State's situation, and we are informed of this in the media. I discussed this discussion today, with a report from the highest level. Secretary of State, in hopes of finding clear answers to what this letter would have been and how the following would have been seen. It was only explained to a very small extent if you want to understand it in a certain way and perhaps it is all right to do so. I mean, this letter is of virtually no importance and that the previous Senate resolution of a member's application is valid. I was also surprised to learn that at the time of the highest. To this day, a minister presented the matter in some detail, referring to an explanation made available in the morning newspaper. We are sitting here at the General Assembly of Iceland, asking for an explanation of what is behind and the highest. A minister does not have the ability to explain what he said but simply points to interviews in town. By the time the letter appeared, there have been an enormous number of questions, just about the coming of the assembly, how the matter was handled, including the following: About when the decision was made to send a letter but not to reimburse the synoptic arrangement for breaking speech, who made that decision, the one who wrote the letter. All of a sudden, it's the media talk. In fact, a former senator and secretary of the parish feels that the letter is not written by the highest authority. Secretary of state. Then the letter was presented at a government meeting, and there the government agreed to submit it. It is thus secret, and apparently it is not even reported on the regular meeting of members of the Government meetings on Tuesday, on Wednesday, as part of a regular assembly meeting. It was presented in the panels of the administrations almost at the same time that the letter was submitted abroad. The branch office of the Foreign Affairs is not allowed to know about this letter until only in the news, nor is it allowed by members of the administrative body. Then you wonder, " Wait, what is the cause? ' Why are they so scared? What's that as high as possible? If a minister believes that he has found the true and correct way, do he fear? I'm not talking about that if it's the best. One prime minister is right that this was put forward to maintain good things for all, and this has failed badly. What also drew attention to this letter, as it is shown in the letter itself, is that preparation has taken place in some form of consultation between Iceland and the EU. The letter exactly says, with permission of the highest power. President: ▪ Recently, Iceland and the EU had agreed on the situation in the Memberal process. Then you have to call out that at the council, where and when the content of the material was placed in these discourses, and that at least at least at the State Department, if not all, the council will receive notes from these meetings and that it will be done in the spirit of the clear and good government that I now expect men to do in spite of everything. I don't know any better than that. The government has just established that all meetings and phone calls should be recorded. We heard it repeatedly in connection with the leak site, so these data must exist and must be drawn out and published. The most difficult part of this discussion is: What does this letter mean? Already there are lots of explanations. Was it just a political statement? Is this the equivalent of a wear and tear? Or it was not an end to the discussion, as we could understand at the highest point. A minister earlier today, that this in itself did not change any of the Congress resolutions, that the talks could be accepted again by a new government, could it just be resumed? When you first heard from the letter, you could see that it was a sincere violation of it, all of it, all this methodology, all this secrecy and some clone who was supposed to be keeping the council outside it, it was an attempt to avoid being allowed to talk about it or at least to have resolved the matter so that they would not interfere with it. This is totally unacceptable for the Allied Council of Iceland and for those in government opposition, for one of the most important things in a democratic state is to show respect for the fact that there are both more and less things to be taken into account and that there is an opportunity to participate in the discussion and to have opinions. That's a principle. For example, when men consider the implementation of elections and other measures by the Council of Europe, they see the position of the administration. That should have been clear. It became even more interesting when the letter was interpreted and the work was being done. Perhaps that is what is being done in the government covenant. It says, by permission of the President: The European Union member countries will be interrupted and the assessment of the situation and the development of existing issues within the Union will be performed. This will be taken up before the Council for a discussion and an introduction to the nation. The EU Member States will no longer be held in accordance with national regulations. It was interpreted here a year ago that, of course, there would be a national agreement during the first part of the term. That's what the Houses had promised before elections too. None of it stands, not a word to mark. It will be even more amusing when you consider how the nation has been torn apart and the council, both last and again, as you examine that point in the government's declaration of policy at that time again by permission of the president: The government will seek to activate the nation's controversies and to counteract the divisive and suspicions that have characterized Icelandic politics and discussions in society for some time. Is this the key to keeping this government's policy declaration? I think that if any governments have managed to tear the treaty apart more during the council and out among the nation than the highest. Government. It is sad to see that here again, thousands of people have to gather to fight for the protection of democracy and fight the sovereignty of the present government. That's where they don't try the words, i.e. The advisers and the rule groups, they go on and tell everyone that this is a betrayal and a violation of everything. For example, there is a 2011 minister who has a conflict in the work force here. It is the respect of the Generals, the respect of the democracy and the Congress underneath. Materially, we can fight to achieve certain factors, but this is what really matters. [[The president calls.]] I have the hope that at this council the General will agree to a proposal for a national hearing agreement. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] In the meantime, I view the 2009 synoptic proposal as valid, and this letter is judged unmarked and invalid in all respects.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u200	Mr. President. Whether to start Shakespeare or the Nobel poet, be or not, that's doubt, or when you kill you, and when you don't kill you, to be or not to be an application. What does the letter mean? The wording that has been used and efforts to explain it have been quite colorful. There's been talk of zero-adjusted cases, back where they started. V.E.G. Prime Minister said: "The application is not reversible, it is sunk. He compared it to a ship on a screen that would be so torn off a beach, a sink, and so on. This is how when a person does not use his thinking in a reasonable way, either because he does not prosper or because he doesn't want it, because it is his goal to have rendered it blurred to think that he can interpret it in one way here and have it in another way there. It is difficult to understand why the letter is so vague and vague, unless it was the very purpose, trying to do what has always been difficult, i.e. Both release and hold. That is exactly what appears to be the conclusion of this discussion at a council yesterday and today and the weekend's discussions. It was a great deal of concern that in the first place in a good speech by the U.S. president of Generalis, he concluded that this was not going against the Senate because the content of the letter was not found to be the fact that it overlapd with the stated Council of II, which is still in force and has not been canceled, and this was approved by a conclusion in 2009. It's the decision of the head of the State Department. paritaprevir Ármannsson, the son of a year, is, in effect, the same, not to discuss the obligation to the Foreign Affairs Committee because there is no news in this letter. Of course, the presentation that was clearly prepared on Thursday night was about to be a major news on the road, the parting of the meeting, and the application was canceled, and we were no longer an application state. No such thing can be found in the letter. On the contrary, wording can lead to, for example, in the paragraph that says that the Iceland government wants it to explain its plans more accurately. It says, by permission of the president: Iceland's government has no plans to re-start its members' negotiations. - To keep them up. That's not what they're talking about cutting anything out. No. The government of Iceland has been taken captive. It is the opinion of the Iceland Government that Iceland should not be regarded as an applicant state. Its position is described. But it doesn't say: Iceland does not want to be an application state to cancel its application, end the discussion. No such wording can be found in the letter, which, of course, would have been necessary if it were to have been the basis for a major turning point. If you look at the situation in the context of the fact that we have Iceland's foreign policy and Iceland's communications with other countries on the move, that's not gonna work. It is impossible to make such advances in the government of Iceland that if a foreign policy is to be developed and premeditated, it would require an expert of handwriting and language experts rather than lawyers to try to figure out what they are trying to say. The European Union just scratches its head and prays not to comment on how they look at this letter, at least At this time, normal. They have no problem. It has been claimed, or claimed, that this was a consultation with the European Union, which, of course, is very interesting, but not with the Parliament or the nation. What are they likely to have said in the European Union if it has, in effect, been so that Iceland's officials went to Brussels or had dealings with them, saying, "Hey, can't we figure out somehow how to handle this situation?" Is it not likely that the European Union said: "Wait, don't you want to clear it up, Icelanders, what are you going to do? Isn't it your business to straighten it out? You guys are gonna let us know. You're going to end the discussion? Are you going to cancel your application? Or how do you want this? I most likely think so. I think it is highly unlikely that the European Union considered to be acceptable or has been able to go to some kind of program with the highest power. Secretary of State on how to make this so that he could say at home: I've been doing my job, I'm a hero, I've already broken up the discussion, but then you can do it the way you want to. Is this likely the case with the European Union? I don't think so. So here's something amazing mixed up. Of course, the fact is that, in my opinion, this sets a very sad comparison of how our foreign policy is to be shaped by careful management and well thought about what is being done in the larger cases in that area. The conclusion, then, is that we have spent days trying to understand what this letter means and what it means in the relationship with the European Commission and the legislators. If it had been the news that those in the letter themselves tried to say on Thursday evening, it would have been a serious incident in the relationship between the executives and the legislators, but it may have been less than trivial because of the way the letter is. That is a number of serious comments and interpretations that have been made regarding the administration of the country and that the Senate is of no relevance. It has been extraordinaryly advanced in this way to say that the project had a complete self - control on how it behaves as long as it is not stopped by mistrust, that man has had everything to his power, delivered it on a single board, and does not owe any explanation for how he treats it as long as the World Council does not take it over by striking them. This is not my understanding of Congress and Congress. And the legal paper that was compiled by the Generals' office is an excellent tool for this, and I quoted yesterday's discussions. This brings us to the very opposite of the best results. Secretary of state and others have tried to say today. In fact, it is highly obligatory that the council has strengthened its position and now makes more demands for the European Commission to take its approval seriously, to enforce, or to look to the council for a change, to get a new commission, to make it clear to the council if it is not possible to accept the approval that the Council has made. Of course, the resolution of the General Assembly since July 2009 is valid because it has not been canceled. It's as simple as that. Until it is changed with a new approval of the Generals, it is in effect. That's always the way it was. When men agreed in 1999 to start hunting, they agreed that this would be done in spite of General 1982's conclusion, which said seven years old approved by the Council of II, was introduced by a new decision, new policy. It's always been that way. Mr. President. Time's running fast. It has been quite interesting to observe this discussion today on chapters and yesterday for me as an opponent of the European Union. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] It may be right to state that the minister of foreign affairs now laughs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u201	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u202	He can do it. He can do it. V.E.G. Secretary of state may laugh just as he possibly can. That's exactly what I've been wondering when it's the highest. Secretary of state speaking, in times of need. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason and other such men, who, in particular, do so in their part in the public talk, attack e.g. Signed, do these people think I'm an opponent that we're walking in the European Union? Do they have a problem with that existence? Do they see reason why they really spend all their powders attacking the person here? Apparently. That is a thought - provoking point. It is not much tolerance for having an opinion about how the treatment of these matters should be, and it includes the right to address the World Council in the event that it is proposed, regardless of how Iceland should be involved in the European Union or not. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. Finally, I'd like to say, it's been a while since I finally realized that Icelandic politics is in such a way that we will never get into these matters, either backwards or forward, unless we consult with the people for advice on these matters. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The Icelandic government cannot handle this without establishing its policies on this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u203	V.E.G. President. I'm kind of gonna take the ball where it's at. A senator divorced him. He expressed his view that he felt that the people needed to be consulted for counseling on what to do about the continuation of this matter. I understood him. This, of course, brings to mind what I was discussing earlier today. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's rock mask made clear the speculations and discussions that took place in his category and in his administrative conference 2009 on exactly the role of seeking out the nation on the basis of commissioning, we can say, in order to go into contact with the European Union. I put this in context to the fact that there has been a discussion that there is likely to be a proposal for the continuation of the case to be decided on by national law, i.e. A proposal would be made at the General Assembly, where it would be referred to as an expeditation of national law, where the question would be somewhat answered: Is Iceland going on to continue member conferences with the European Union? Or something like that, the material content would be in that direction. Then I wonder, first of all, " What is the answer to my first question? ' paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's mask supported such a suggestion or prepared to suggest that it be chosen in a national law whether or not to continue in the Member State's affairs. In view of this, I find a question to be a question. A senator for the European Union whether to advise people to say yes or no for such a vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u204	Mr. President. We're discussing a letter at the highest. Secretary of state. We are in 2015. It's March month. We are wondering where the European languages are today and where to aim for them. Here comes another member of the board and wants to go back to about 2009, and after an incident, we ask ourselves such technical questions as this: How, if there were a proposal with a particular question, I would advise the people to vote for that vote, if it were possible. [[No, I was asking...]] This is all for an interesting subject, but I'm pointing out what we're talking about. We're discussing the state of Europe right now. We are discussing the letter of the minister of foreign affairs and we are discussing how the minister of foreign affairs dealt with the General, etc. Yes, I think that we are in this situation, and perhaps for a long time, that because of both its size and its difficulty, due to the relative division of opinions in the cutting party relationships, and we all know well, the matter is grown so that, in fact, all major steps to take should be taken in agreement with the nation. I'm in favor of events, however it may be felt that the matter must now be held in some way into the future, that it will be done on the basis of the nation's guidance. We have set up a law on national regulations that did not exist at the time, and we are in some practice, as we know. So, I don't think there'd be anything shocking about us putting together questions and presenting them to the people. Of course, the position of this matter must somehow be explained and resolved, at least to some point, so we know where the land is headed in that environment. That's one of the reasons why I thought it was hard for me to try to have discussions and clean up whether Iceland offered some of the solutions that they significantly changed the human opinion of the case and the people a song that they wanted. [[The president calls.]] I am still a similar one, to the extent that we have to make some decisions thereafter, we will agree with the nation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u205	V.E.G. President. To make that clear, I am by no means committed to this relationship in 2009. I could therefore reason on the basis of a certain view of the information we may be facing, even during the next few days, if representatives of the government offer a suggestion of the kind they have suggested. I don't know if it can be said that it has been offered, but at least it has been suggested that such a proposal will appear on the side of the ruling parties. As I say, it's two questions. On the one hand, the question is, Do we feel that at this point it is proper to go to the National Court for continuation of conversation, and that question answered. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon clear. I didn't hear him answer the second question that I think we'll all be asked in time, but it's what our attitude is about to be. Do we want the decision of the National Convention to be a continuation of conversation, or do we feel that this is not the desired conclusion? I don't think it would be unnatural for us, who have been involved in this discussion and have developed our attitude toward the European Union and have shaped our attitude in these issues, to express ourselves as to whether it is worth our trip to the European Union and to support our stand against the nation if it comes to taking a stand on national pay. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u206	Mr. President. Now I could very easily turn the ball back, but I know why. A senator has made an answer. It's so hard. A senator is a member of the group who made a very solemn promise to the nation that they would be allowed to vote for this matter, and the directors and candidates in all the country's votes are available on tape that this would be referred to the nation. [[Up front.]] As a result, it would have been easy to ask the prime officers of the Independence Party, such as their confidants and the president of the Foreign Committee: "How had the Independence Party come to think of the votes that he promised the nation if they had become? " If, for example, I am likely not to be far away from the government, if that is the case. stand for that in the opposition of the government. But the way I'm going to vote should come to such votes or to what cause I was going to fight is only a little early. I'm an opponent of Iceland's success in the European Union. Maybe a what? A senator, however laughing at the height of his temper, could control something. Secretary of State, I'm just happy for him. It's so much fun to be able to make the most of it. Ministers, for he sometimes has dark days. It's only once like that. I haven't changed basic convictions in that topic. That's a little dependent on the assessment of the individual situation. My assessment was as if these talks had been made large in the process of making the benefit of testing whether it could be finished. For example, I was eager to open up the difficult chapters so that we could see the cards, so we would have at least a few of the cards. Something happened to my expedition, and I was very disappointed when, as we know, it drew down and declined. We may not have received as clear guidance from the process as we could have received if the European Union had opened its sea - out report, if it had placed on us conditions as we would have seen who they were, etc. That question remains unsettled. I'm in the middle of those who believe that Iceland can get a lot of access and specialties and those who think we can't get anything because when I look at it in other European countries, I see it mixed up. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I always enjoy the enforcing that the Inlands received from the union itself, that they may sell tax-free booze. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u207	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon puts it to the highest of days. Foreign Ministers are dark. Could it not be said that the last four days were dark as death? I think so. Hv. At the beginning of his talk, a senator made it clear what this looks like from the outside with eyes, for example. Watchers of Iceland I think it may be safe to say that the entire Republic has never been held in a more unsurpassed way in Iceland's foreign affairs. It has never occurred before that a foreign minister made such a message to foreign officials, came back, and did not know for himself what kind of invitation he was offering. Nor has there ever been a beginning of conflict, as it was during the first few days. Minister and chairman of the Independence Party, not really, as we saw it happen between the President of the Foreign Affairs Committee, why. paritaprevir Ármannsson the son of Aarmann; and the president of his own company, the chief. Financial and economic ministers. Then you wonder what this play is all about. Hv. A senator recalled what had to be done for Birgir the Year's Ármannsson, why. The head of the State Department, that his party had promised national fees. Then you should think back to what you're doing. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, who may have been busy doing a TV interview at the highest level. A minister of state who revealed and twice confirmed that the agreement had been made between the leading of the Independence Party and the forward party that there would never be a national agreement. Never a national agreement. When asked about the question of whether it meant that independence, in fact, a few days after these repeated promises, literally sold European independence on a silver plate on the first day, he answered that it is impossible to interpret as yes. What do you think? A senator about that? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u208	Mr. President. Of course, I feel sad. To see ourselves at home and in this way, a senator will see us as he sees us at home and in this way that the occult, or using his lyrics, is almost necessary to try to figure out what they are trying to say. [[Or my brother Maggie.]] Then there are just two speculations possible in that matter, either such incompetent textually poor that they cannot possibly live in the words of their thinking and will, or that they are deliberately for some purpose to have it so blurred so that it can be interpreted according to a certain degree, when one of the interpretations is intended for home bridges and others for other uses. One condition, in effect, that the legal legal situation of the case is that Iceland remains an application state because the application has not been repeated and the interview has not been terminated, but a home bridge can be said to do the opposite. With regard to the government agreements on these subjects and national regulations, I am a total stranger to them. I think it's time we don't get away from it. We need to keep going. The relationship between Iceland and the European Union for the next year and the longer future is a big deal, a large foreign political language. It will be on the agenda in elections, either in election election election elections or by searching especially for where they want to go in these matters. There's only the benefits. If there is not at least some sort of legislative national agreement in the terms of where people want to go, this may lead to a traditional course and perhaps an unusually harsh one. Then the states will pass through the next election. It was deactivated, and it is most interesting to me to think democratically, it was deactivated by the declarations of the last election that the nation... [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u209	Mr. President. Hv. So a senator naturally asks, " How can I be at the highest level? ' A minister sent a letter to Brussels, whom he himself writes, but he has no doubt that he has read, and if he has read it, surely he did not understand it. This is indicated by the statement of the highest degree. Minister. But, hey. paritaprevir Steingrímur J.'s Steigur J. Sigfússon is the most practitioner in politics I've worked with, a solution to the case, to get either a cryptologist or a medium. [[Up front.]] Then I'd also like to say that I can contribute to my family's support. A brother Maggi Mike is the principal of the School of Saul and is the best man to manage the riddles of life and death. Why not get him to determine what was in this letter? But no fun, Mr. President, it's a big deal that foreign policy is being fired in this way. Where a bed is built, it is known to be at the highest level. Even a minister cannot explain his own course and change his mind from day to day, saying one day that the matter has been resolved, on the other day he declares it, in a story hidden in the morning paper on page 5. 14 The fact that he did not deliver any letter as a gossiper or anything? Who will take note of such international talkers? Back to my previous question. What's in the back? I'm asking why. A senator who has long experience with whether it might be at the highest level. Ministers have gone out and prepared their publicity campaign so well, like what. A senator described earlier, in order to come home and deceive his companions who view him as the leader of their life in a world view, saying: "I've taken care of the matter. The real purpose was to get us out of some list of candidate states, however, to keep the process completely intact. Was all of this just an illusion intended for homedos and, above all, to those in world vision who have accused him of failing? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u210	Mr. President. Only more about foreign policy and the expression on it. It was one of the republic's former prime ministers who likened this to being put into the hands of preschoolers or preschoolers to shape foreign policy, but it is now taken up by the candidates for prenuptial school to accept the oath of leveling the good work done there, and I understand them well. Of course, it was offensive to the nursery or to the preschoolers to think that they had done nothing better than this. [[Up front.]] That's right. For what kind of man is going on here, it's the highest. Certainly, a minister with answers today and talks gave strong indications that this mountain - sided route was taken to get past the General Assembly. There was nothing else that could be determined by bad answers and answers to the highest. The minister that the council had taken the case hostage and had done a lawsuit and prevented votes and what was now presented to members of the council, who had certainly discussed for one four days in the Senate arrangement during her previous discussion. Then she went to the committee and fell asleep there, and the greater part did not need the strength to get her out of the commission if the mind had been set. So to some extent it is. I agree that this word game, such as the former editor of the Morning newspaper and a fighter against Iceland's membership in the European Union, Styrmir Gunnarsson, calls it right what is going there to serve some local purpose. It is often that way, unfortunately, that men think in their shorts just nothing beyond this, how can I to my home Error bring some doll that I can wave? That's what it looks like. I don't think the key question is, will we remain on any list on EU websites? Governmentally and legally the question is this if Iceland was to begin a conversation again if all 28 EU Member States would have to accept it again, the Minister's Council and the Commission, etc. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I view it as a possibility that it would not be.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u211	A respectable president. Last what. A senator giving a speech here, boy. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, first quoted from Shakespeare and the Nobel poet. I'd like to be able to quote Shakespeare and say that there's a rush here for nothing. I'm sorry, but it's not quite like that, and actually the only Salmon quote I can think of is: the Þrá, the one that Bjartur í Sumarhús Houses said, but actually added to ◯en what it is like to the females. What you wonder, though, is how the government of Iceland decides to launch this expedition specifically when it comes to considering that it has a high political cost for the Independence Party, for the second board of directors here, who are hurting over the matter, and who are totally divided in their stand for the letter discussed here and what the significance of it is. In many respects, this is the end of nowhere because the letter at the highest level has become daylight. A foreign minister has no significance but to appease some conscience or some inner riot because of the situation. It's a bit ironic, though, that here's an independent party and a forwarding party coming after a council to unsolve Iceland of some list when it comes to knowing that about 12 years ago, they were talking about getting Iceland on some list. It's a little similar. What evidence has been made for this prerogative of the government's representatives? Yes, everyone had to know that the current government is not about to negotiate with the European Union, that everyone can know that these two groups are opposed to Iceland's going into the European Union. But has anyone been saying that they should? Has anyone been trying to force these two groups into an agreement with the European Union? Has anyone been telling these two groups that they may be on the agenda to apply for participation in the European Union? No, nobody. It has only been a quiet case, and it has been in a somewhat acceptable place for politicians ever since the government set out its last failed expedition a year ago, which led to a proposal from the highest level. A minister of foreign affairs was discussed here for a few days, four or five, and sent to a committee where she was then put to sleep by the administrative point, she did not come out. Then you could have said to yourself, since they mentioned the situation so that a bit of time was too short and since they had already scraped this proposal to and fixed it so that it was no longer painful for a part of the government section, they would have had the right to move the case back in the autumn, recommend it, leave the proposal for a few days, and then could go to committees and reviews from a foreign committee. You wonder why it would not have been done. What material reasoning, then, can be fundamental if humans are on the other side of the belief that there is a need to do this in some way and it is very difficult to get the case through the council, especially when there is little time to do so, and why did they not suggest that last fall? Was it not an interest, or was there no greater proportion of it in the constitution? They're always talking about their having more than one share, that's not to be surprised. So it's a mystery. This has already cost the Independence Party considerably and will continue to do so. I'm afraid the former proselytists of the Independence Party will turn to the editor for the success they have achieved in bringing the nation together to try to complete the negotiations because there has never been so much support among the people as after the Supreme Court. Secretary of state, with the help of the government, tried to end the discussion. There's a man here who thinks, well, he's never wanted to walk in the European Union, but he feels that the discussion should be over and that it's out of control. Secretary of State to decide for the Icelanders that this is not the case. There is evidence to suggest that there is something else behind it. Then you must look at the political reality we've lived in here for the past few weeks and lost, stop, and see that there were, of course, a great loss of face before the forward party, when it was highly recommended that he could not go through with changes in the fishing system. There is no more part of the board, no reference to making any changes within the Independence category. You're happy to have the same condition in all these basic elements. Of course, something had to be done for the advance party. It had to be allowed by the movers to make this suggestion, so he might have cut those talks off, even though it was discovered that it had no meaning. So it's a real scandalous mission. Of course, it must be painful for the administrative part to experience it, despite having more than half of it, that he does not have the votes needed to get such a thing through the council. It must be a shock. Here we are on the road to the other side of the fishing business. It is natural to think about that when it comes to the ultimate. The prime minister was asked here during the days which cases apart from the correction he could mention as such a initiative from the government, at which point he could go to the highest level. The prime minister could not mention a single matter, could just list some statistics that are completely independent of the government's performance, as any person who has worked in politics for more than two weeks. From year to year, the number of jobs, as it were, is the highest. Government to thank for the economy we are in right now. Absolutely ridiculous. This is an unusually functional government that, of course, has to be doing something important. I said at the beginning of my speech that I wish I could quote Shakespeare and say that this is an anstonymity, but, unfortunately, it is not, because what's going on here is a deliberate attempt by the government to make major decisions by the council. A government minister's experience on Iceland's administration directive and the rationalization of presenting the case in this way is a major concern. There is something that needs to be carefully considered and must be carefully considered in the political history, which attempt was made here in this context, to describe the one - sided letter that no one really understands that these talks were terminated. V.E.G. Of course, the minister of the state and the government knew that this would bring about a fire and all the efforts after the issue was made have been more in the process of trying to break the fire of war than the rest. All speeches have been aimed at this since the highest. The government that the bigger part is up to it and this is just a... and something that's probably doing and all protests are just from some kind of sour government opponent, in fact, it's just some politics. Nothing is done to try to beat the matter, talk it out, reach a common conclusion, as if it had really been so easy for the government. No, when people can see a good war, they will choose him in the present government, which is a sin because, despite this government, they have succeeded in creating a level of cooperation at the council, an incredibly good work peace. [[The president calls.]] In many cases, good results have been achieved. [[The president calls.]] Of course, it can't stand the government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u212	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before the talk that I thought was a good picture of what was going on here. It's only natural that the information we've received, the paradox of the minister's filament, his fellow minister of the council, and the other members of the council, has been in a way that a person has had to squeeze into some form of a complete picture of what really is going on here. I thought why. A senator does well. He did well over what he thought he was doing here on this national bridge, but what I wondered about is how this could affect our relationship with the European Union, how this could affect Iceland's credibility in foreign affairs and what will follow. I'm now in deep cooperation, which humans somehow have no interest in anymore, i.e. The government, through the EEA Convention with these same countries that men are trying to draw up some joke of here at the council to their home bridge. We live in a time when everything that is said here will be translated out, so I wonder, and I want to pray. A senator telling me how he feels about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u213	A respectable president. I think there is a danger that all of this compromise will bring us great reproach, not just in the European Union, but in many places. This is not an acceptable way to take care of things. When an executive spokesman in the European Union said that it was not a formal violation of Iceland when the letter had been delivered, Iceland's secretary of state has made an argument with the director's press officer, saying that he needs to be corrected by this media agent who knows nothing about the situation. It's a funny thing when it happens to us foreign politics. Besides, if you're gonna do something like this, it's gonna have to be formal, it's something you're going to report in advance and it's on the schedule. There is simply no doubt about it, so it is used as an ancient word here in this hall, leaving on a table corner some envelope, asking men to open it when they are gone, or whatever it was done. At least I don't think it's a decent Icelandic foreign political thing to do this way. If people were to do this, it is more clear to say it exactly as they need to put it so that their thinking is perfectly clear. Of course, that was not part of the plan. It was thought of mainly of home bridges, so it's a total scandalous mission. I'm sorry, but it's Iceland's reputation that's under. This is not some announcement to theatre of the economic sector, that's Iceland everything that's underneath in this context, and, of course, we're the ones paying the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u214	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Only about the letters, the tanks have said that this is at least an improvement from the text messages given through the letters, however, that men are at least in some formal delivery. I find this discussion to be so incredible, and especially on the part of the government in Iceland, and I worry about how a man allows himself to talk about and to speak to the European Union. It is talked about as if there is some distant phenomenon that is hardly our concern and that we can have some selective relationship, I think that we need only to bear in mind that in this relationship, the European Union is Denmark, the European Union is Sweden, the European Union is Finland, the European Union is Germany, the European Union is France, the European Union is Spain, the European Union is Poland, Italy, this is all we want to have in a good relationship with. It's all a state that we're dependent on in terms of foreign trade and then we let ourselves stand here, i.e. The Icelandic and Icelandic government spoke of this as a club of some kind that hardly concern us, yes and preferably on days, if you want to give a good time, they'll talk like the European Union is some sort of phenomenon that's going to have some evil with Iceland and Icelandic interests, like there's something ugly going on there. This is serious to me, and that's why I'm worried about it. A senator in this regard, that we may be badly treated, this may misbehave our credibility, not just in the political arena, but that this could have an impact, unfortunately, otherwise on long - term communication.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u215	A respectable president. There are many things wrong with this discussion. V.E.G. During the weekend, the minister of foreign affairs was interviewing the Islands and giving this bright future. How tragic it is to witness that such rudeness and unpleasantness befall him! It's not decent for us politicians to be talking about each other like that, it sucks. I recall the words of a former mayor in Reykjavík who said that changing politics was like moving a cemetery, without help from within. That's the way it is. This has been said by the administrative body, including the Management Department, during the discussion. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Secretary of state and what. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, chairman of the budget board, said that the matter was cremated last time it was presented. It's been corrected, it's totally wrong. It was discussed for four or five days and then made up for committees. How long would this same issue have been discussed in 2009? How long did the language last? Has anyone seen it? It was discussed for six days, so if four to five days, there is a filibuster in the sense. Secretary of State, what was his involvement here in 2009 when this matter was discussed? It is, then, likely to be an exaggerated vocabulary, yes, the language of death, or what to say. þm. Össur's ass. [[The tongue of death.]] I don't think I can top it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u216	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. I would like to pause at his cheek at the end of his talk on peace of mind at the council. We're gonna go for a second. So I've thought about myself a little bit about what it is that makes peace at the council and what it really is that creates in us the days that you are comfortable with and think: it was a good day, and here it was a good day, and here we were caring for the valuable authority we've received from voters and caring for our important work. Why do we have peace of mind? What makes work peace a reality? I'm thinking very much myself these days, and it could be said, in a way, that I'm in my head over and over again this cry of finance minister here yesterday when he cried out over the council hall: It was some kind of primitive, primitive, independent of its name and social security number, which has been in Iceland throughout the republic. Somehow it comes deep from repentance, and then you realize that the majority of the violence that Iceland's people have always lived for, reflected in this scream, in the primitive scream of this well - lived boy from the town of Garth where he associated himself so deeply with this project of the Independence Party during all the republicry. [[The president calls.]] To me, it's something we're dealing with when we're getting good results in creating a good mood here at the council, this atmosphere.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u217	A respectable president. Anyone who has read or been controlled knows that the person who has to say "l" is not a particularly good ruler. You're right about what you're doing. A senator, how heartrending it was to witness that in this way it is necessary to cry out in this way, as I say! There are certain processes here that need to be followed, no matter how much more they're involved. There is also a certain conversation that needs to be arranged between government and government opposition that must be respected. No matter how large the major part is or how strong the opinions of the European Union or the application procedure or how it was established, people simply have to agree to respect these processes. There's nothing more complicated than that. What's going on here is just the political bitch of the freckles, where they're going to go out, have come across trouble, felt it's unfair, and still plan to have it the way they want it, has felt uncomfortable, too much trouble, and it's just a lot of stuff. If this is the standard, the government does not have to file a case through the council. It is so simple, it is the council that accepts its commission from the nation, and the government accepts its commission from the council. That's the way it is. Of course, it is because people want the institution that is next to them to make major decisions. It's just that kind of thing. Then the government's orders are to execute them. That's it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u218	A respectable president. I think there have been an amazing number of Icelanders who had expectations that there would be a change in Iceland, that there would be a change in economic collapse, and then it would be settled. The Senate resolution that we all agreed on here at the council in September 2010 includes the first paragraph, by permission of the president: ▪ The General concludes that the Agency report on the development of the Icelandic economy and society in recent years is a testimony to the future reporting. A little later: ▪ The General concluded that there will be serious criticism of Icelandic politicians and that it will teach lessons. I remember myself participating in both this discussion and a vote at the council, and I think that they were quite serious behind them, people had faith that we were going into a new era, that we were all going to learn from this and also those of us who were then in the government, who had so much to learn. Then there's what we see here, both by the letter of the minister of State, which is steep and happy in dealing with the council and the secretary of finance with the attitude here yesterday, and the prime minister always with some sort of colic bullshit, these are young men, grizzly young men, who do not seem to realize how important it is to overtake the old political bitch who led us into an economic collapse, a bank crash, a political crash, and a historical Mexican crash in Iceland. I wondered, " Which way do we have? ' [[The president calls.]] What are the next steps for us here who are close friends of democracy?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u219	A respectable president. To me, it is quite simple, it is the rivalry of those who are the leading opponents of the typhus and the overforcing and rudeness of drawing everyone down to their own level. They're never happier and never happier than when they've been able to drive everyone crazy, because that's when everybody's like them. Then it's just politics, and there's an excuse for their acting like they're in politics. Of course, the march is designed to provoke and create wolfism, suspicion, and can say that everyone in politics is here and nothing really changed. The object's opposition is really the same as the opposition of the smaller parts during the last terms, it's always over the smaller parts anyway. It was last done, and that's why we're doing it now, and so on. If this is the case, nothing will ever change. Happily, this will be considered. This is entirely in the hands of those who control the country, i.e. Public, they can not vote for men like that. They can think about how this behavior is, who will do what in this matter, who will tell you what, how it's going to happen, and not vote for those in the next election, and then we'll change it. That's it. Of course, those who come in here with the intention of not changing politics may not be so, so I'm going to let it all go down, 'cause we're protesting that they're trying to do some major foreign affairs before the council - without discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u220	V.E.G. President. I remember when I was still in high school, over 20 years ago, that Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson, then president of the Team, came to school in recess minutes before elections and spoke very beautifully about the European Union and the possibilities it offers. I will admit that it was fun to listen to Jón Baldvin, who was a good speaker and a charming man. The European Union sounded to me as an exciting alternative. However, the European Union that Jón Baldvin spoke of over 20 years ago is a completely different European Union today. The entrance of Iceland in the modern European Union is of no concern to me. Why don't I take comfort in that? Yes, it is my opinion that by entering the European Union, Iceland will lose itself, lose the sovereignty, lose control over its resources, and thus lose tremendous opportunities for future development. Lost my freedom, so I get a little dramatic. During the last spring meeting, two reports of Iceland's member negotiations with the EU were introduced, on the one hand, the National Institute of Economics (HECs) of Iceland's University as the highest level. The secretary of the state of Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson and the report of the International Ministry of the United States, which others were employed for. Both records were given very detailed discussions during the great General Assembly. After reading them, I became even more convinced that Iceland was a better city outside the EU than within it. They've been talking about how they want to look in the package for a long time and then get a vote on a deal. There is no secret, but members have built their language through the years that we could establish a contract to the European Union. It's not. First of all, the EU depends on the applicant country's pursuit of involvement. The countries that wish to be involved in the relationship will then meet certain basic conditions. Basically, it is about Member States agree with the EU covenant, its objectives, its policies and decisions made when it became valid. The introduction of a new state does not lead to a new relationship, as well as to a state of application to accept the Community's legal rules, acquis comtrusaire in French. This period of change is limited and does not include the exception and principles of the Union, whether in agricultural or marine sectors. Last-end leave is not available. Another claim is mere fantasy or wishful thinking. We may be able to obtain solutions, but they have limited legal value and thus cannot be relied on for long periods of time. The European Union alone has absolute authority on the preservation of resources in the Community's common fishing policy. All changes in this course will be determined only at its level. The principle is that the Union's fishing vessel should always have access to marines and resources. At this I ask myself, " What are we wasting the time of assembly and nation? ' Is it not clear? First, if we are going to continue the business of the Member States, the fundamental thing is that the nation wants to enter the European Union. The political will must also be there. It's not. Second, it is quite clear that we cannot work with the European Union on the seabed. The examples show that we will not receive permanent replacements. We know what's in the package. The last government application for involvement in the EU in 2009 was based on sand. The country wasn't first asked if they wanted to join the European Union and another member of the Union back then, left green, promised before election that he would never apply for involvement in the European Union. I witness in the live of the TV hall the night before the election. Modern government groups have made a promise. The policy of both administrations was clear for elections, for Iceland's interests to be best paid outside the EU and for not to continue our talks without national law. That's what it was. The bottom line of the Mosaic Law is also clear. This includes pauses between EU discussions and non-national terms, as well as assessments of the issues and positions within the EU and its development. It was done. We didn't talk in the campaign about votes in the season. At a meeting of prime minister with the European Commission and the President of the Council in July 2013, this new direction in the Iceland government was explained. During these meetings it was made clear that these two EU leaders would celebrate a clearer policy on the role process. Since then, discussions with the EU have not occurred for four years. In 2011, the European Union's negotiations came on the coast because of the marine and agricultural sectors, and at the beginning of 2013, a temporary minister of foreign countries stopped or slowed the part of the Member States. The current government does not want to be part of the European Union, and it is the result of a strong contemporaneous issue. To say this, you must wonder why people are surprised at the ultimate. The EU secretary of state sent a formal letter stating that the government does not intend to reinvigorate the Memberal process and asks that Iceland be no longer an applicant state. At the same time, emphasis is put on strengthening the implementation of the EEA contract and closer cooperation with the EU on its basis. The Icelandic government has answered the EU's call for clear policy on these matters, which is very normal and honest to our friends in the European Union. That's why I thought the government had welcomed this landing. But, no, they're talking about fraud, violation of Congress, even in democracy, and I don't know what. The stone was then removed when the European Commission sent a letter saying that letters were highest. The minister of foreign affairs would have been meaningless and had broken the law. Such practices are unprecedented at the High Council, as far as I can get next. The question now arises: Will the government contribute to national payment during the election season? The answer is: No, the government has no plans to pay national fees for discussions with the European Union, where it would be a vote for a case against which it is opposed. In order to restart the role of the Member State, the current government considers it important that it is not done without first asking the nation if they would like to join the European Union. Why could the matter not be moved? For one thing, being one of the EU application countries has value in foreign affairs. We are part of EFTA and ESAs, and we are members of the Arctic Council and NATO to name something. We've made several contracts on the holiday, and we're planning on making more of those contracts. It is not appropriate to be at the same time in an application state in the EU. If we walk in the European Union, why should the government want to negotiate with us who automatically trace us? In addition, this is the policy of both administrations and no reason to keep alive the process of being involved in a relationship that is not certain how to develop in the near future. It has rarely been more uncertain as to what kind of relationship the EU will be within a few years. Why should the Icelanders voluntarily enter into that uncertainty? Is this not a good package number for us? I suggest that we stop here and move on to other things and take steps to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u221	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. In itself, there is no need to ask why. A candidate's high regard for the subject is because it clearly explains its material attitude toward both the application and its involvement and its political assessment of the position that has already come up and is also clear. But I'd like to ask you why. A senator, because she has more than not expressed herself about the tactics here at the council and shares interest with the person here who wants to improve them: What is her opinion? A senator on the progress that the government will make a decision on Tuesday, and he will decide at the government table to hide the members of the administrations, and that this will be shown in a letter exchange with foreign parties for what was decided at the government meeting, and the council will be informed at the end of all events? [[The president calls.]] Are they exemplary in this work?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u222	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. Senator. Yes, you're right, I've made quite a few comments about practice here at the council, and I believe we can still improve in that area. For the sake of the government's keeping secret these letters, I'd like to say that I don't think there's a bad practice, because the members of the board here at the council agree that we should not join the European Union. The course has been clear, as I went over to my speech earlier, we do not want to enter the European Union. That's why I loved it. I just thought it was pretty good. Ministers should follow the procedure to explain this policy to the European Union, to explain the direction towards the Icelanders, as I also took the lead in my speech. This uncertainty and policy cannot benefit us either in this country or in the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u223	A respectable president. I wondered, though, if the Senator doesn't agree with me that it should be a general rule that the Ministers of the Government class have their party in charge with big decisions, at least let the members of the council know before the coming news and agree with the council from day to day. With the arguments as reason. A senator puts out here wondering what the purpose of the Theocratic Assembly Meeting is, if it is, in any case, the forward category, and its council, to consider the meeting of 19 clear and clear votes of the government's policy as just a formality, no matter what its manifestation is at any given time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u224	A respectable president. Yes, if it's natural for me to present it, if it's not a good rule that it's being adopted at council meetings. For the council meetings are a secret place, as it were. A senator knows, and there are things that we do not discuss elsewhere. In the last few weeks and months, there have been discussions in our assembly room without more careful consideration here, so that way to the top. A minister of authority did not surprise me.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u225	V.E.G. President. There is no way to let go of that opportunity - when candidates, ordinary members of Congress, discuss a subject on the program as planned. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir was doing, which I would like to thank - to come on the platform and answer the question. A senator. You can see that it is not often the case with the forward movement's civilian members in order to exchange opinions, as should be the case. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, because I heard most of her speech, how she feels about the words made by the prime minister before election, was allowed to vote for continued discussions. What does a new senator look like? A senator, who wants the road and honor of the Generals to the greatest, is that when politicians, no matter what their names, in this case the chairman of the party, come here and betray it in a memorable way as they are being done? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u226	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists, I share with him the view that a man should keep his word. There is no pleasure in walking behind your word. In case of a moment. A senator is quoting a video that's been online, and I've heard that it's been cut and counterfeited, that I don't sell it any more than I buy it, than that there are words taken out of context. I've never heard the highest. The prime minister speaks of not choosing to continue the conversation in the season, so I stand there and answer it this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u227	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I'll be very impressed if you do. A senator reportedly heard that the video taken at a meeting in Hörpu, where all political leaders were false. I've never heard that. It will only be seen, and the person at the Camerina who accepted the interview must make such a good decision if they are distributing fake videos, such as the dog. A senator talks about it. A respectable president. But I'm going to use the 20 seconds I have and assume that the video is not fake. Hv. A senator wants the way of the U.S. Generalis, and the politics of the country, and I repeat the question: If the video is not forged and what is highest. Does this mean that the prime minister of King Davíð Gunnlaugsson, president of the advance party, is not betraying the promise he made to the nation before elections, as the independent party is doing? Is it the new politics of the forward party?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u228	A respectable president. I'm not going to defend some man's lies in town. This video was like a dog. A senator refers to, apparently recorded in the Harp, is not what I've seen, I just can't answer this because I haven't seen it. I say once again, I've never heard the highest. The prime minister makes those comments, so I don't agree in any of this, so I don't answer it anymore until I see it as an alleged video. A senator witnesses.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u229	A respectable president. Hv. A senator reviewed the most treatable arguments against the EU. I wondered if you should ask us how this will affect us at the time of the council, there should be nothing else to say. But I'm gonna let it go, and I don't want it to go. A senator answers that question, I'm going to go better into it myself in my next speech. I just want to hear what's going on. A senator if there's anything he can do about it. Hv. A senator also went out on leaves and debates that there are no permanent provisions from the EU. Now I'd like to ask you what. A senator would like to deny, for example, that Denmark does not have the exception of international and judicial services, and Danir are not the exception of EU defence policies and do not stand outside EU policies on immigrants and on the business of the trustees.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u230	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator of interest and a good answer. I based my speech earlier and my argument on the information presented in a report by the Institute of Economics for the University of Iceland. Also, a report by the World Health Organization that I read from cover to cover a few months ago. I take my conclusions and my arguments from there, so calling them treats me as strange to me. Senator. He should have read these reports as well as I do. Denmark walked in the European Union many years ago when other rules were valid. It's not today. That is why I said in my talk earlier: Over 20 years ago, I was impressed with ideas about the European Union, but I don't do it anymore because the European Union has changed. It's not like it was 1992, it's not like it was 2002.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u231	A respectable president. This is of interest to me because I remember reading a report about a year ago that was taken to the seabeds and agricultural sectors and the fact that they have not yet been opened and had not been opened when the talks were interrupted here. This is made clear in this report, or what to say, I described it at the time of which the Šcliff hest-hest-dehest, there was no way out of that case. The European Union, like cot. A senator rightly points to a change over time. It's a negotiation, it's a negotiation, and that's why I find the speech interesting, and I apologize for calling it gratifying if it at least happened to me at the moment. Senator. It was not my intention to offend one or no one here. We know that the European Union is changing. We know that it takes years to apply, and we know that we haven't opened our lines on agriculture and fishing roads. Yet, this persecution is a cause for superabundance. We know that there is a permanent reserve, as is any apparently, in any case, except at the same time. A senator wants to fuck me instead, and I ask her to do it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u232	A respectable president. I have this good report, and on page 2. 65, in the conclusion of the section on the seabed, it says, by permission of a president: ▪ As stated earlier, examples show that temporary extramaritals can be obtained, or even other laws, for the sake of Icelandic interests if they are well-founded. Such restrictions, however, remain only as long as they are marketed and/or until there may be a change to the relevant Community legislation. It should be avoided that the declarations provided in the Member State agreement should be thoroughly avoided, at least This is why they have a legal value on the basis of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u233	A respectable president. I think we've recently lost the experience of an adventureful reversal, sort of a global repercussion, of a political party's policy when it comes to the European Union, and it's the forward party. It was simply so that in 2002 it was the former head of the Agency, Ásgrímsson Ásgrimsson, who introduced for the first time an excellent plan on how we could negotiate our fishing business in case of conversation, based on the evidence that has continued ever since. Then, in the lead of the 2009 election, the advance group states that there should be no involvement and an agreement for the nation. Now that they are completely on the other side, they do not even want to let the nation answer the question themselves, whether they want to complete the terms of membership or not. I want to ask you why. A senator: Why do we have confidence? To reach the same conclusion, a senator did not want the people in the country. A senator has found out? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Why Do People Know? Why not answer 55 of yours. [[The president calls.]] Icelanders: yes, it's up to you.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u234	A respectable president. Hv. A senator only went to history, which is appropriate because I am a historian and enjoys answering historical questions. It is true that the rate of the advance party was different to the European Union in 2002, 13 years ago. It was also second in 2009, that is correct, according to our approved council then. Like what? A senator knows that the political party is the people in it, and they change the nature of the situation, things change, the environment changes, and I crossed over earlier that the European Union has changed a lot, with new agreements and other things that make the environment very different. I mentioned earlier in my speech the uncertainty that lies ahead in the European Union. It's not a very good situation right now, but hopefully it'll improve over the next few losses. [[The president calls.]] Naturally, people have permission to change their minds and develop their own ideologies. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u235	A respectable president. That was not my question but rather a rather general comment at the beginning of my words. I asked why. A senator who seems to have reached a firm conclusion by himself does not trust the people of the country to make the decision for himself. It has been called on, and it has been promised by the chairman of the Independence Party, and in the leading of the last election, this view was also overlooked by the chairman of the Mission. This is indicated in the morning newspaper, ml.is, that April 23, 2013, was the highest. Prime Minister at a meeting of VIB. At that time, he was repeatedly asked if the group would be given national terms for continued contact with the European Union with the European Union with which it would be established. So Sigmundur said that it was very open about dates and that the band had always assumed that a vote would take place. [[Up front.]] That's what it was, a respectable president. Both directors of the board talked about votes, praised votes, betrayed them. And I'm asking, a respectable president, and I'd like to hear it. A senator here tells us: Why don't you trust the people in the country to reach the same conclusion as you, if the European Union is so boring? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u236	A respectable president. I trust the people of the country. I trust the people of the country to learn what the European Union is and what it would have been like for Iceland to enter there. In time, I imagined that people could choose whether they would like to walk in the European Union. I did well in my speech. This is not an essential requirement for maintaining the Member State and member countries if they are in opposition and the nation has not been asked if they want to enter the European Union. [[Up front.]] If it is not clear whether the nation wants to enter the European Union and if there is no part in the European Union then it does not stand for national pay. [[Up front.]] I got it. I got it. A senator to read my speech on the Generals Web site at the end of this meeting and to consider it better.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u237	I was asking about the president of the party.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u238	A respectable president. We were back in a material discussion about the EU, which may be appropriate if the high Council is going to make a decision on the matter. But if the high council is not going to make a decision, there is little discussion here. Regarding the letter as the highest. The secretary of state sent them out, or should be separated from the highest. Secretary of State, that the purpose of this was to explain the position of the government in the affairs of Iceland's application to the European Union. The confusion is that it has never been more blurred and felt clearly. I don't remember any protests recently on the subject, except for last Friday and Sunday and yesterday, i.e. already at the highest level. The minister of foreign affairs decided to make that case again. That's why I sometimes wonder what they're going to do. This can't really be a very good plan for them in the government. They couldn't have intended this to happen. Surely they would not send something to the European Union that would somehow interpret, the other part of the government would interpret somehow, and the opposition would, in fact, all in the case of the European Union, interpret in at least two different ways, or by any means sound like a respectable president or senior officer. Secretary of the budget or the highest. Prime Minister or Supreme Minister. Foreign Minister or European Union or some lawyers in a town. This case has never been more complicated than just right now, thanks to a letter of explanation. Secretary of state. I can't believe it was my goal. On the other hand, I believe it to the highest. Secretary of state, and certainly to the highest. Prime Minister, intended to appear before the council after the explanation that we received earlier today as to why the letter was sent because the Council is not trustworthy to the process. But then there was a complaint about a filibuster. We went over it earlier. The suggestion to break up with the European Union was highly discussed about a year ago. That was because we were talking about the European Union, the largest foreign affairs of Iceland at the time and in recent years. It would be strange - no, it would be reckless; it would be a scandal if not a detailed discussion of that at the time of the proposed discussion. We have to discuss these matters here, that is, the Council, to discuss them. Other than that, of course, the matter was a reason. Foreign Affairs Committee, where it's easy. 9th. Smoke. n., Birgir, Ármannsson, is president. It was there for a discussion, and it never came back for a second discussion, as it has become famous. But the matter was not killed in any code of speech, it was just a detailed discussion about it, as is proper.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u239	A Birgir's Ármannsson killed it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u240	Waits for the Birgir Ármannsson of a year, huh? 9th. Smoke. n., killed the case if someone has killed it by some political process, the case was on the foreign matter committee. V.E.G. Secretary of State has no political right to justify such measures, since the Council does not do what he wants. But this is the highest. Minister said and what was the highest. The prime minister has said that the Allied Council held the case hostage. If the highest. Ministers want to change the way the World Council works, once again, I'm the first man on a deck to suggest how things work out here. But if this is to be the case, voters get one letter in a very small letter every four years to say everything they feel about everything the General and the Government will do for the next four years, advice ministers are going to talk about democratic authority. The government groups praised national law on this matter. Even if they had not, it would be wise to maintain a national law on the matter when 22% of the ideals demand it, these are 53,555 signatures. Thousands are in the East day after day. But no, there's a filibuster at the General Assembly who's supposed to have killed the case. It is particularly difficult to listen to the words of some government members, such as the driving force. paritaprevir Frosti the son of Sigurjónsson, whom I appreciate, who says he will perform the operation of a minister and will act as if it were a operation. What's strange about it is that at the same time, others want to go. According to members of Congress, this has not been an operation, no major issue, despite the thousands in the East, despite 53,555 signatures, 22% of the people, despite the alleged verbal abuse and, of course, general ill will toward the government, and particularly for the forward movement of all surveys that appear in those days and have done for some considerable time now. It's really no matter how you look at a democratic commission, there's no democratic commission for this. Hv. Officers Frosti Sigurjónsson and Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir once said that they trusted the nation to make a decision on this matter. Hv. paritaprevir In fact, Frosti Sigurjónsson went out to say that there was no real faith in the European Union anymore. Iceland does not even call itself EU, etc. If so, I have an idea for the highest. Foreign Minister: Kill this case, set it up for a national fee, and complete the case. Then we won't have anything to talk about here anymore. But they don't dare. They don't dare, Mr. Honorable President, because they know what will happen. People start talking about their material discussions. What happens then is that the term a adaptation discussion, which is used to deceive people to believe that by the application procedure itself, Iceland is being adapted to the European Union. So, of course, the turning point is, and when it comes to completing the contract itself, adaptation negotiations, such as negotiations in general are bad. Of course, contracts are adaptable, of course contracts are adaptable. When we do a free business deal with China or any other country, we're adjusting our interests, we're adjusting our rules, we're adjusting our taxes, our customs, etc. It's okay. The idea of adjusting two major phenomena, such as national and national relationships, to reflect the strange fear that seems to exist in the forward category at anything that is foreign and unattainable in some way. Let us not forget that most people in Iceland are originally unattainable, at first, with all due respect for Congress and nation. No one has asked these specific groups to proceed with the recent process. No one's insisted. Governments are about to finish these contracts. Nobody wants it. It was all right, it was as good as it could be, on the break until the next election, where some kind of democratic authority can be obtained to decide the rest. The least that the current government can do, in the case of democratic contributions, is to keep a national law at the end of the term along the next total election. The result of these General elections was also light, and the next government could be recorded on the basis of whether or not the new government - if it would be a new one - could be trusted to work for Iceland's interests. That would be a legitimate question and perhaps a more legitimate question to determine how we would make the government, but how would humans achieve enough part of a council to shun the Council, with a smile on something better? Finally, since I have no more time than this, I want to suggest three things that we can do to complete the phenomenon once and for all, three simple things. We can do this tomorrow, in my opinion, we don't need a new constitution: 1st The separation of the government and the Generals so that people cannot be members of Congress and ministers at the same time. 2. Israel's Paint Court, approx. Ten percent of the people, or they can bring in a national bill. Then the government does not have to be responsible, but the people can decide for it themselves. 3. The court's my part of the Generals. This is done in good old Denmark. [[The president calls.]] This would mean that things would probably be better here before the Generals would be avoided when the Allied does not do as they say. [[The president calls.]] Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u241	A respectable president. Earlier today, the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Commission said why. paritaprevir Birgir the year's Ármannsson, we wait for the European Union's answer to the letters. At about 8:00 p.m., the Mblís published a news report on the European Union's response that will not be involved in the Icelandic political debate. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, Latvian Edgar Rinkevics, is quoted as saying that they do not want to comment on the matter. Asking if the application can be re-created, if Iceland wishes to do so later, he says he doesn't want to comment on it. I'm asking why. A senator does not see how unfashionably the matter has been handled with regard to our major cooperation countries. They do not seem to know what is happening in Iceland, simply suggesting that Iceland has to finish its own business. This also focuses on the important interests of Iceland in foreign affairs, i.e. to continue an application procedure if we choose, not to get an answer, but to be unsure because of these government letters, whether the approval of the Generalis is still valid for the data board.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u242	A respectable president. Yes, and this answer or this announcement, or what to call it, from the European Union, emphasizes that it does not fit the highest degree. The secretary of state has sent this letter at the request of the European Union, if I understand correctly, to explain the position. The official position was perfectly clear here; it was perfectly clear to the European Union as well. The IPA levels are gone. Why? Because the attitude has been clear and clear since the beginning, actually so clear that you are tired of talking about it. It does not indicate that the government had to explain its position to the EU through a letter that seems to have gone to the wrong parties in favor. And not only that, but it's simply got it all worked out, so now we've spent a lot of time trying to figure out what the situation is and get it on the news from the European Union that everything is vague. I also have to agree that it is not good for Iceland's interests to have the situation unclear. That's the worst of everything. There's something you would've thought nobody would want. You would have thought that those who want to go to the EU wanted to have a position clear that Iceland was an application state and that it was a recess, not a final one. You would have thought that those who don't want to go to the EU wanted to have this position clear that we're not an application state, which was, of course, a public intention. Minister of state, and to make it clear that we don't go there, that the door is shut, so to speak. Both are unclear. And that after the highest. Secretary of State, after disregarding the General, proudly tries to explain the matter. [[The president calls.]] It's a natural ride from a respectable president. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u243	A respectable president. It is only hoped that the European Ministers' Council of Ministers will be established to understand which Iceland is taking place in this letter exchange by the Ministry of State or Foreign Minister, as well as with many well - experienced politicians as it is currently known, because the foreign minister does not maintain the same interpretation from one interview to the next. When our foreign partners review the declarations of the government, the chairman of the administrations, they conflict in important matters from one week to the next. That's the way it described it. So over a few days before the election, the advance party assumed a national hearing on the subject. He declared it after the election, on Lake Lava, that he assumed it would be held during the first part of the term. The leader of the Independence Party has long since become national fame for the presumptuous and unscrupulous betrayal of his clear voter to which he has become responsible, thus removing from all political credibility to the future. I'm asking why. A member of the Parliament whether these proceedings will only reduce the credibility of these men, but will reduce the international credibility of Iceland and the failure of these oddities to ensure that significant needs and options in the future in Iceland, whether or not the interests of future generations will be put at risk if they choose, for example, to accept the application if they choose to do so. if you return to an emergency under the lead of the Agency and the Independence Party, as it were a few years ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u244	A respectable president. That's right, as a matter of course. 9th. s.. As a consequence, it is only possible that the EU Minister's Council of Ministers has difficulty understanding this letter. And God help them if they start to understand something more of the discussion that has taken place here from elections, because it is completely unclear at every moment what it is to do; whether it should be national pay, and when it becomes clear whether it is possible to break up business permanently, it is not clear; and then when it is tried to explain it, it will first become vague for real, completely vague to everyone, that it seems, including the government itself. The interpretation of members within the government and within the council and among lawyers and among those who make a lot of noise in this and the European Union itself is extremely vague everywhere, apparently, contrary to what any human wants. Certainly this reduces Iceland's credibility in the international field, and it's not really new. The Icelandic authorities have been fearful over the years, have been highly declared, have wanted to go all the way, and have uttered themselves extensively in international discussions. The best thing to do was to find out, 2006◯2007. And I sometimes think that Icelandic politicians should have learned from the collapse not to be international as if they have everything clear, to have all the answers, and to speak before any opinion without ever finding out more about it, and in this case especially to see if the Allied Congress is okay with measures. Secretary of state, but as we know them, he does not seem to trust the council in his own matters. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That may be the most serious thing we've learned today and actually on Friday.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u245	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson before the speech. We are naturally in this discussion of the report of the minister of foreign affairs on the behalf of the government of Iceland, which has given the basis for a discussion on the state of the council and of the council. What I want to talk to you about. A member of the United States countering that Iceland's government seems reasonable that instead of looking to the European Union, a foreign Union, on the wording of letters, wording on a letter that is unclear in what was to be translated, it has, of course, been found to have no significance for Iceland's foreign policy. The only thing that has been discovered is that this letter makes Iceland a laughingstock. So I want to ask you why. A senator's lack of certain water divorces at the General Assembly, when the government is afraid to move forward, feels that it can do that way because it has more part, more part that it is afraid to put to the test. I wondered: " How can we, as members of the council here, protect ourselves from such government?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u246	A respectable president. About a year ago, we were very shocked that the people were not to ask questions as promised. Now we face a completely new problem, which is that the government does not trust the General to handle the situation. Now, the highest. Ministers of foreign affairs and others in his line of thought that we can present a form of distrust. They do not seem entirely aware of how trust laws work or general employment. When you enter Congress, you certainly do so with certain expectations of how that matter will be handled. The results of the 2013 election are clear. Government groups received approximately 51.1% of calculated votes. As a matter of fact, you can calculate it differently, if you calculate all the paid votes, they get less than 50%, but it's like a conversation for another time. So they received 51.1% and 60% of members of Congress, 38 of 63, and they still have that authority despite having apparently lost respect for the public and its authority by polls. They do not have the courage to go to the democratic government with a national fee, and they do not even dare to sign out for the Generals, despite having more parts. They don't have the courage to enter the council itself for reasons that, in fact, are vague to me, because after all and once again the matter arose. The Foreign Affairs Committee, but not here on the program of the council in the second discussion... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u247	Mr. President. Hv. A senator here pointed to the front call anyway. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason. He's not just a w-w-what. Senator, he is also an assistant to the prime minister. That's how this government works. She's choosing deputies from the Senate. They're standing here and calling for us, elected agents, that if we're unhappy, let's just put on a list of distrusts. But it's important to remember. Senators, this transition isn't all about us right now. This institution will hopefully survive us all. It's about how we're going to conduct a government ship in this country. I repeat. The members of the Independence Party should be more careful about how they associate with government here. [[Up front.]] I think that many independents are shocked to see their representatives take part and defend such activities. It was also shown when the highest. The minister of state expressed himself earlier that he seems to feel that we senators would come in a chair only to delay discussion. It's a bit remarkable that the board of directors can hardly be seen here in the chair until now. In this, they are streaming forward to defend themselves on the matter. Then they wake up to life. So I want to ask you why. A member of Parliament: Why are you talking now when there will be no vote following this discussion?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u248	A respectable president. Sometimes I wonder myself what we pretend to be doing here and actually wonder at the beginning of my talk. We have also not discussed in detail what this requirement of distrust is, we have not fully accepted it, but the indiscretion to the Council, which may be greater than that which is justified by shunning the General Assembly on the grounds that it is not trusted for its own matters, for its own decision making. When it comes to saying that the Council can only express a lack of confidence in the government, that means at least two things: one way, go home! What are you doing here? The government's share is 38 to 25, i.e. Those in the government against those who are not in the government. And by the way, a class of respectable presidents, who, yes, is part of all of this, are in more of it. If we are not to have anything to say without putting forth a list of distrusts, this is a statement of distrust on the side of the Supreme Court. Secretary of State and the entire government of the General. And yes, that's part of it, a respectable president. Something else that says, which I pray to the highest. A minister of state and a respectable president to consider, it is that when the government says to the General that it can present a distrustal arrangement if it is unsatisfied by government decisions, the government is also saying that it probably feels that it is going so far, that it is just going as far as necessary and that it is able to go up to that level, political and democraticly, until it requires distrust. Distrust is the last straw, that's the last thing you do in conversation like this. This is a matter that belongs to the council, a respectable president, we should be talking to other members of Congress. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's not the government that's the main thing here. The Council is the main thing here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u249	V.E.G. President. We'll talk to the top of the report. The minister of foreign affairs, out of judgmentless letters that he took to Europe last week. A respectable president. It seems that when you go through the process, the government's decision about that fraud was secretism and fraud. On Monday, this will not be discussed by members of the members of the administrations at a council meeting. In the government, this is settled on Tuesday. Nothing is said about what to do. On Wednesday, we have a group meeting for everyone, including the board of directors, and this is not discussed. On Thursday the members of the council are called, perhaps they have been sent down to not discuss this. [[It wasn't a council meeting.]] However, on Thursday meetings were announced late and eventually, with those who could be announced that the minister of foreign affairs was in the process of carrying letters and being about or handing it over to the head of the Commission of the EU, this ill - wordsed letter that no one understands. V.E.G. A minister has published four versions of what the letter says. In the European Union, they don't understand or get into it. Minister of the Foreign Minister has an argument and detracts from the European Union's press officer, who discussed the matter. It was almost as if the mail was Páll some letter he was asked to check but did not know what was in it. I guess that's where the cat comes after Njáll. Whatever you get out of this is fine. Progress is to achieve what the rest of us have not done well enough, i.e. To cut off the Independence Party. And if that's true of the advance party, thank you very much, especially the highest. The minister of state of Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, who seems not to know for himself what the letter says. Then it's a traitor. What did the presidents of the government promise elections? In Hörpa, Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunálsson repeated that the band wanted national law on continuing talks. Walking on it, yes, very open about dates, and the band had always assumed that a vote would be made. And when the chairman repeatedly approached him and asked if a vote would take place, he answered in his familiar way: that must be. And the room laughed. Bjarni Benediktsson and the point of the Independence Party, all, pre-election with written style from the Independence Party's Headquarters on each point of reply to the EU to try to maintain the remainder of the Independence Party before elections and those members of the Independence Party who would approve of Memberal talks could continue to select the party. Betrayal and nothing but betrayal. Then, when the presidents begin to talk about the situation today, the stone takes care of it. May I remind you, most respectable president of the United States. Minister of State, just after he took over, thought he could do it just by himself, like, clicking his fingers together, like, and saying, "We're done with the party talk, and it's over. Legal opinions, including those of the United States, were called by law. The author of the Generals and others, who concluded that this was not possible. And that's why it came to the highest level. As a minister of foreign affairs, with a word - of - word proposal, he suffered the setback he faced during the past winter. A respectable president. Everyone is interested in increasing the respect of the Generals. But I have to say, as it is, if there are now any members of the General Assembly, the Congress, then it's the current government party. But I'm not gonna take all the senators in that group because I don't think they're all on that line. A respectable president. How is it that the chairman of the Independence Party says: "Why should this government have a rich obligation to approach the council? V.E.G. Mr. President, what dictatorial expressions, as reflected in the ◯th part of this magazine, are the words from yesterday's symposium. V.E.G. The prime minister has said that he had a discussion with the European Union, or a representative of foreign countries, past the council, and discuss further how to work out this scheme that they cannot pass through the council, i.e. A concierge of possible wearouts but how we can do this somehow on the back door and put this on a cat-nose they don't want. It is a very serious matter, a respected president, that the Ministers of the Allied Council, who has agreed to this proposal and has this authority here which we all agree to is, and they take up more discussions with the EU, or foreign, or their representatives, on how to handle this matter. Conspiracy against the council that these men have practiced is a very serious matter. And if you think about how they talked in the last term about a lot of things, you'll be upset when you see how they're doing it after seeing them come into power. Yet, few things are bad enough to offer us anything good. The foul - tongued letter and various declarations, including the highest. Secretary of State on what the letter says. One explanation was on Thursday, one on Friday, one on Saturday, and then this went on all weekend. It has been said and discussed that these words were not a violation of speech. That's what happened. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson of a year, president of the Foreign Affairs Committee. That's what you did. In a memorable way, the president of the General Assembly, Guðfinnsson K. Gufjinnsson, helps defend what came out of legal opinion and was last discussed as the government confirms by its synonym, i.e. The arrangement he didn't come through the council, that it's not possible to invalidate that synopsis proposal, a party application, except by a new resolution from the Council. And that's why, the most respected president, the members of Brussels, is at the highest level. At a press conference today, the minister of Latvia's foreign minister explained that both letters had been discussed in this vague letter. Ministers on behalf of the government, as well as the letter of four presidents of the government, who sent letters and explanations of the state of affairs at the General Assembly. No wonder this fine man, the minister of Latvia, cannot explain what the Icelanders mean at a press conference! He cannot read it out of his letter, it is just a general word that is probably supposed to be a home bridge for a representative of the World View, and then the letter of the chairman of the ruling parties, to the highest degree. The minister of state dared to call a coup, an attempt to coup, that representing the minority, four classes at the General Assembly, sent a letter to the Council of Ministers after this condemned letter to explain their views and status at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u250	...a delusion, not an explanation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u251	A respectable president. V.E.G. Minister goes on to say it's a delusion, not an explanation. Yes, it will continue to the highest. Ministers believe it is an illusion when they want to defend the honour of the Generals, who has concluded and accepted it more in more ways, the representatives of all categories, including the then vice president of the forward party.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u252	You know, people can be in the Council without deception.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u253	You see, this guy's name is the highest. A minister is very symbolic of how he feels he should exercise the authority given him by the greater part of the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u254	No, no.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u255	And it's a very dangerous situation in which such people are in power, a very dangerous situation. A respectable president. In the minute I have left, I'd like to say that in interviews today, the highest levels are observed. Minister: The obligation of the government is to comply with policies chosen by the greater part. How can you conclude that all the evil groups chose these categories in the last elections were merely choosing their policies in the EU? Is it not true that some people have been choosing them over a huge commitment and other promises that have also been betrayed?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u256	They didn't vote for the Conspiracy.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u257	A respectable president. When I'm at the highest. The Minister of Foreign Affairs here says that foreign affairs are in the custody of the executive, not of the legislature, and therefore the general will not be able to intervene in the treatment of foreign affairs, but I will be in a great hurry to hear the word, and I'd like to say a few words in this relationship, but I choose not to do it this time, but it's a hell of a thing to listen to this. A respectable president. What are people doing in neighboring nations? There is now reports that the Danish government directed by the superiors has agreed with the national anti-regional parties on a matter not later than in the first quarter of the next year. [[The president calls.]] Dan's doing what's wrong, but there's a great deal of it right now. A government is leaving, which is nothing more than a betrayal of the nation and the pursuit of Congress in the land. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u258	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. There are some questions that arise today and some puzzles that have not been solved. Maybe they're trying to figure out what's going on here. What exactly is that? A minister is doing so many amazingly diverse ways to try to interpret what happened and what is going on and what is real will and how people feel about presenting it? So it was that in the lunch news of January 17th, the highest report is made. Prime Minister, of course, that he expects the proposal to appear, i.e. Congress proposal in accordance with the Government Constitution. On January 17 it was the plan. On March 2, he says: "I expect such a proposal to be made, as it is mentioned in the Constitution of the government. How long has it been? It was March 2, a respectable president. It's two weeks. During the two weeks, what happened that made the government so refreshingly shifted the course into the presentation, content, and understanding of its role in making such major decisions? Because that understanding was available on March 2. Well, maybe. A senator helped me handle the gaps with it? I feel completely incomprehensible with the statements so close in time that they're going to be so fast. What does that count? A senator that happened here?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u259	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. She's asking me what's going on. You're hoping you'll ask. Hv. A senator reviews this as the highest. At the beginning of a year, the prime minister said that it was not very prepared. After four or five popular songs were played at the start of the show, the prime minister began his discussion, including a suggestion. It was then followed to make up the highest possible picture. As a result, the minister of foreign affairs and a few more followed up on one another. I think it was always the intention of the government parties to do what they did last year, to suggest a breakup, but what just happened is that within the administrations, there was an idea that there would be no more part to go on this. We know of two or three members of the council who want to continue their business ventures, they've been right here, but we know about others who have doubts. I don't know if my theory is correct, a respectable president, that within the Independence Party, there were so many senators with doubts about going back through the Council to claim that the forward party was simply under discussion whether it would be worth the loss of all the damage required by the Department of Parrotative Discussion, by presenting another body of Congress protocols, as they did last time, and by taking away the trouble at the bottom. It's hard to be able to do the gaps within the independence party and forwarding classes, and only guesswork can be made as I've done here. It's hard to figure out just what the interpretation will be tomorrow. V.E.G. The minister of foreign affairs said on page 20. 14 In the morning newspaper on Friday, that the discussion was not being terminated. [[The president calls.]] The President of the Generals has said so, the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee has said so. [[The president calls.]] Is it surprising that they have a problem in Brussels by interpreting what comes from Iceland? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u260	A respectable president. It is, in effect, quite sad if the right thing to do is to the highest level. Ministers decide in agreement with the government of Iceland at the Board of Directors to arrange for members of the Government, to trust in the faithfulness of the greater part, and to make this decision, and directly so that they seem to make a decision to avoid taking the matter to members of the council, their own members of Congress. Of course, it promotes a lack of understanding or speculation. A senator brings up the matter of the journey. But it's gonna be amazing. I think it's very important in this discussion that we could see that it is the Senate to define the role and mission of the council. It is not primarily a legal subject but, more importantly, a democratic and political subject that we always maintain it, and it certainly needs to be less than the highest. It belongs to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, that the Commission does not have a will of its own. The government expresses the will of the Generals and the Council by the law and by the synopsis. Hv. A senator has speculation and speculation about reasons for the Supreme Court. The government's going this way. But it's the highest. Don't you think a government willfully and deliberately shun the General?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u261	V.E.G. President. Yes, indeed, the highest will be ignored. The Allied Government with the trip they are going on. Again, it must be kept in mind when the national groups were driven to do so in 2013 by a legal entity, which they accepted by granting a political resolution in the last winter on a break-off discussion. There was nothing but recognition that it was a normal way through the council, that would be the tradition and custom that had developed in Iceland's Congress, which included. has been written about in a book published by the Council in 2014. A respectable president. This is what it's all about. The General Assembly is being avoided, and that's why these difficult discussions are here. That's why people are being persecuted all over the country. Eight thousand people are attending a conference, etc. In addition, let us bear in mind the extraordinary clear promise made by vice presidents, the odd understanding of the Independence Party in all elections, who handled their styles perfectly right in one of the ideals behind another, the chairman of television programs, who promised that national law would be carried out on whether or not to continue the discussion. And the prime minister, as I could earlier, was asked in Harpa, and there he also gave a clear answer. This rude attitude toward the General Assembly, which covers the General Assembly on his dirty shoes, was replaced by the unbelievably clear declarations and frauds of the judges, the people's choice. outside; that the vote should be paid. It was part of the promises, a respectable president, that was part of the success of independence and forwardees. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u262	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. He, like me here today, is pretty hot in hammers and natural, understandable, there's a lot to be angry about. But if we are to look ahead, as is often foretold. The independents, looking to the future, first I wondered where we are going and second, where we should go. It's time to go to the highest. The minister of state is afraid to take the matter into the council, but it seems that after a second discussion, it is not to be trusted to get more of a part here at the council. Some 8,000 people went down to the Eastern court last Sunday to demand a national bill on this matter. A year ago, when this was presented in the form of a synonym, 22% of the ideal people signed the signature list of requiring a national law. I've never heard the nation's hearing of the committee being spoken of another percentage. People say 10%, at most 15%, some talk about 5% and even 2%. But 22% - when nearly a quarter of the nation wants a national law on the matter, it is clear that there is a reason for a national fee. We now face the fact that the government and the Allied are not separate, i.e. to the maximum. Ministers are also senators. They have both the legal authority and the executive authority. Actually, this is the case, so it is granted to the high council members. I wonder, " Have what? ' A senator has any ideas about how we can improve the system so that we can get out of the swamp we are in now?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u263	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. He asks: "Where are we going, and where are we going? As far as I'm concerned, it's very clear about this point, like so many others we're working on in this society after the great collapse. We are to have a discussion with the European Union, representatives of all categories such as the Contract Committee, trying to get as good an agreement, complete discussions, bring home the agreement, give money from the state, from the Council, to those who want to accept agreements as well as those who are equal and who have the best publicity for the public in the country so that people can form their own opinion of the agreements and what they offer. And then there is a national agreement where people say yes or no. Research shows that today is a large part of failure to walk in the European Union. Suppose that would be the conclusion. Then all the political groups in Iceland are faced with developing new policies, economic policies, financial policies, and all these policies that have to be implemented to create an environment for Iceland's business without us going into the European Union, without us perhaps shooting an euro. I had a chance to do that, a respectable president, earlier that news is being received because the Danes will soon choose what changes are made in the EU Member States' area of judiciary and Internal Affairs. So I told them that the government groups had agreed on the case after discussions with the government of anti - held forces. A respectable president. Why can't we in Iceland work like Danir's doing there? Why can the rulers of the government not come down from their high ranks on which they want to be, come down to us just a little bit, ask the representatives of all classes, the presidents of all classes, trying to determine whether we could not unite in this? So let's face it when it comes to choosing for ourselves whether people say yes or no. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. [[The president calls.]] That's my answer to why. A senator, a young senator, asks where we should go. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u264	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator is eager to know the answer. Of course, you would always want to be on your way to whatever course you want. But we must also consider that, after a total economic collapse, it has not been possible to complete the case, to complete this discussion, primarily because of the management process. Second, at least over a longer period of time, to gain support for the European Union amongst the people, natural because negotiations are not finished and are not available, despite all the information presented here, what will be in the final agreement. I suggest that the system we now live in is not good enough to handle this project and that we need to consider basically how we want the Democracy to work. I'm glad to hear it. A senator should mention Denmark in this regard. Hv. A senator asks: "How can Danr deal with this? Danes have an enormously like an arrangement and is in this country. In fact, the Icelandic republic is a model of the kingdom of Denmark, which is an interesting subject for itself. But Danir has a little special rule that I like, not to increase the amount of national pay in itself, but to improve the Senate work, which is that a third of the Parliament can bring up a national bill on matters. I suggest that there is one reason why people in Denmark are able to talk about this as if it were grown up. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u265	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator here mentions a law that I had decided to include in my second answer, i.e. the constitution of a constitution in which 1/3 members of Parliament can refer to the nation. I hope this is how it will be, when it comes to it, that it will not have to be used at all, but it is a preventive measure against government, such as is present and behaves as we speak here and is a major issue. V.E.G. A government would never have dared to do this if it was written in a constitution. I've mentioned, and it's been done on my council, that this law has to be in the constitution, and hopefully it will be done in the revision that's going on during this term. Instead, what I consider to be the greatest poem in the work of the Generals, the unlimited and long talk time, to replace it. The work that began must also be completed. They may have planned too much at first, i.e. a general review of the constitution, but this work must be done where my rights will enter, as we discussed earlier. In other words, the proposal of the minorities here at the General Assembly, which will hopefully be submitted tomorrow, to provide a national bill to continue the discussion, is a way of agreeing. This is an act of reconciliation for the government. We have their support in view of what they said before elections, but we do not have support from what they say and do after they have come to power, because they lied to them for power. It must be said here at the end that I am very pleased with what the President of the Generals has said. I'm all for it, and I told Mr. President last night that I agree with the President that if they're going to end the discussion, this will be done no different than a new council hearing that would be agreed on at the General Assembly. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I agree with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u266	A respectable president. Actually, I think it's amazing what we Icelanders manage to do with everything. We now have 28 states in the European Union. These nations have been able to apply for membership, get into contracts, take sides on the agreement, for example, by national law, but for us it's too complicated a process, we just don't accept it. All I want to do is study the history of the case from the time that these governments took over. In the fall months of 2013, the world's highest standard was solved. Foreign Minister of the Convention Committee from duty. It was disappointing, but there was always the fact that this government was not going to conduct negotiations with the EU, so to some extent it was understandable. But there was a very clear message to Brussels that Iceland would no longer be involved in the European environment. The response from the EU was that this was understood, and if Iceland wanted to pick up later, it would be welcome. The next move is the highest. The minister of foreign affairs just made a pact proposal to break up the campaign, which caused a huge panic and then died on the foreign committee. It is very important to note that it was not a dispute that killed that discussion; it was simply that governments did not trust themselves to take it through the council. I expected those sitting here during the last term to know exactly what a filancy is, and it wasn't. There is another misunderstanding. The next act in this play was when the newly elected president of the European Commission, Jean-Jean-Claude Juncker, said that Member States would not be increasing in the next five years. It was July 2014. That's when they said the highest. A minister of foreign affairs, I'm reminded by the News Department, that he interpreted the European Commission's declaration for a five-year recession on further enlargement of the Union, which would mean that Iceland's partnership was officially completed. In an interview at the University of July 18, 2014, U.S.A., U.S.A., U.S.A., U.S.A. Foreign Minister: It's all over in itself. It turned out that the EU did not look that way. For this reason a spokesman for the Union, Peter Stano, said: In May 2013, the government decided to interrupt the meeting. The request of the Icelandic government at some point after the return of the talks is ready for further discussion. In other words, the party application continued on ice. Then you thought that governments might know just how to leave this case alone, and nothing was going on that way. That's when the latest move comes. V.E.G. The minister of foreign affairs tried to break up talks with letters, but he did not have much to do. The letter is so hairy and vague that people do not agree on what it says. I think the goal was to end the discussion, I feel that way, at least they did it in the beginning. But it is quite clear that the EU does not understand the letter, so discussions have been terminated but are continued on ice. We've been discussing it here today, and I don't understand why the government was taking this controversial step and sending this strange letter. Yet, it has been repeated in the case of the secretary of state and prime minister that Iceland's position is being explained and that this has been followed by the European Union. That was also said last year when the synopsis proposal for breaking was submitted. V.E.G. Secretary of State today says that the process has now been reset and that the government has explained Iceland's position on this matter. But I traced it earlier that we have explained to the European Union how the situation is, and the European Union understands it so that the Member States are on ice. What Do You Need to Explain? V.E.G. Foreign Ministers and other government ministers and officials and ambassadors in our territory are able to communicate freely with foreign representatives, and they can easily explain to these people what Iceland's attitude is. I don't know what's complicated. What did the European Union not understand, and what situation is the exact thing we must always be explaining to the EU? Does the EU require that we end the discussion, that's what it is? If I am going to be honest with you, I'm going to admit I don't believe that the latest game or the Senate decree proposed last year is because the European Union pushed it. I think it's an experiment that this attempt to end the discussion is a showdown here to home bridges, to lay down your leg. But if it is really such that the EU has repeatedly called for answers from Iceland, I want to know about it. What are these desires? What are these requirements? Where has this been shown? There must then be some contact records, e - mails, letters, conversations, meetings. If you're wrong, you're lying to us. If the EU has not been calling for any explanation for our situation and where we are going, we are simply being lied to. I just want it out of the light. I'll call for it. I may do this in a more precise way later because I feel that this is serious. I don't feel that there are different excuses. Then there is another question. You don't understand the facts, so you're trying to make up some tunes that don't have a point. But I wondered, " Is the last game any better than we thought at first? ' Could it be that the minister of foreign affairs sent a vague letter to Brussels, hoping that the relationship would interpret it as a request for a violation of speech? Then it is the evil EU that broke up the discussion. Maybe after all, the letter wasn't so bad. Either this is an incredibly clumsy step in which people really didn't know what they were doing or a plot that was about to send something vague enough to Brussels to be said at home that it was not broken but that the EU could possibly interpret this letter as a request for wear. It may be a little farfetched, but what do you think? There isn't a stone on a rock at the top of argument. Secretary of state. There's been a lot of talk about national pay and campaign fraud. For example, a person might now say that these groups, and especially the Independence Party, may be dealing with him and his voters if they lie to him. But it may be a little more complicated than that. There is a reason for professions to set standards. You see, the shit is anointed evenly over everyone. And when politicians lie to voters, it puts down all politicians. It is unfair, but so it is. When politicians act like lunatics, the cast is down. We have responsibilities, politicians, and especially ministers, and I wish that the government that is living today would be associated with greater responsibilities. And there's some excitement here in a chair where the head of the Independence Party calls out that much of the counsel here, that's not acceptable. I just can't believe the people would accept this kind of work. I'm not going to spend time here discussing this synopsis proposal, that a minister wouldn't dare take the case through the council, and if he needed to cross the council's heads for breaking up talks. Now it is discovered that there is nothing to break up, so the next matter we expect to address here is about that national fee. It seems quite clear to me that the people call for something to say on this matter, and we have to give them a chance to do it, and I don't believe that the council does it, because it's better now that what was said for elections has been taken up and can be played over and over again. It is, in fact, completely incomprehensible how humans escape in this regard, and such terms are not acceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u267	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir At Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir's speech. It was helpful to review a few of the events in which the matter has been discussed. Especially did I find an interesting point. A senator about the fact that Iceland seemed to be having a harder time in this process than the 28 countries that are already forming the European Union. Among these countries are numerous former eastern states, states that viewed the European Union as an important step toward better governance and better progress. They were kingdoms, many of which had a weak democratic tradition, and they considered this important to the future of their country. Also, there are differing opinions as to whether it is the right thing to do. It is also important to record that in the resolution as adopted on July 16, 2009, it is made clear that when it comes to a contract, it will be accepted only if it is passed on by the National Order. It is the natural process, and it has been in the opinion of the states that have gone to national law, which I believe is important when making such dramatic decisions and major decisions are taken for the future of one society. It seems that the current government wants to discuss the matter primarily on some technical basis, doesn't want a subject talk, the subject talk we can discuss at the time of the contract. I wanted to ask you what. Senator: Why does it think the government is afraid to discuss a material contract with the European Union? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u268	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. I don't understand anything in this government, so I can't answer how they think. There is one thing we have not been able to discuss today: Why are we discussing this matter, why is the European Union a major issue? It's only a standard of living in Iceland for the future, where we'll be seeing ourselves in 10 years or 20 years. Are we going to keep up with other peoples with all the currency and so forth? We haven't had a chance to talk about it. I've noticed what governments will be talking about the first term and the previous government. This certainly bothers me very much, since I and the majority of Icelanders were not in the Senate during the last term and have no business to do. I just don't think it has anything to do with what Jón Bjarnason did or didn't do. The situation is what it is today, and we must just examine the rest of it. It has become something of a mother: Should it have been a national fee to attend the meeting? It has not been done in one country, for it is said that it could weaken the contract. Besides, if the government is in all its own affairs, or groups, as it is claimed today, the United States must have been out in 2009. That was a very clear conclusion in the election, and the main issue of the United States has been entering the European Union. If that wasn't a clear agent and... [[But a VG?]] Well, the Conspiracy won the election then, and it was a church resolution approved in a council hall. You can honestly say that not everyone voluntarily pressed the green button, but that must be true in all cases if they are going to go out on the discussion, the debt breakdown, and what I know. It is, of course, not acceptable to speak in that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u269	V.E.G. President. Yes, you're right, it's remarkable what the government is in the first term of thought. But I think I know why. That's because she has no vision, she's completely stuck in the past. It is not that the ministers of this government stand proud of their actions, being able to reason with us and to tell us what they mean for the future and why they stress it. No, they're always in trouble, most of all trouble, and then their main grip will be misdirected about the former government. But it is remarkable, Madam President, that the European Union believes the Icelanders must handle the situation in accordance with their directive. It is of some concern that the European Union, the chief adviser of the secretary of state, does not understand his actions at all. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u270	A respectable president. I've sometimes described it when people ask me what it's like to be at a council, maybe I've said it before on the platform. I've said that I felt a little bit like I was at a bar mitzvah, since I didn't know all the clans very well, but I could sense that there had been some things going on, that was divorce, and some difficult issues. It just kind of grows. It was just a matter that some would have needed therapy to get through them so that they could start over again. This really falls on us. I don't know if I'm supposed to say sick, but I know it was a difficult time, and there was a lot of conflict. Of course you try to understand, but we must start to look ahead. You can't always say, "Yes, but you did... I sometimes think it's like my father is stronger than your dad's talk-talking-a-dong. To have not gone to national law at one time or another, are we not going to pay national fees now even if the nation wants to do so? It's not just about us, the 63 senators here and the 63 people here during the last term.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u271	A respectable president. I'm very happy to have you there. A senator calling for the ultimate. The minister of the State of Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson provides evidence to confirm that the European Union requested an explanation for Iceland's position. When statements cannot be made, because they change from one interview to the next, it is reasonable to call down written evidence to confirm what he claims at the council, since his words alone cannot be believed. I want to ask you why. A senator whether she lives so well as to understand the information that Iceland has not withdrew her application application, but is not an applicant. Is it possible for the senator to bring up the claims of government members from one another at a time and at a time? Is it possible to have a valid application but not to be an application state in the mind of the senator? Could it be that this attitude is confusing with the European Union that they have to say at a press conference today that they have not realized what is going on in Iceland and that they are not going to interfere? Does the senator worry that at that press conference, the European Union did not answer whether it was the European Union's position after this exchange that conversation could be resumed on the part of Iceland if the country later chose?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u272	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. Of course, I don't understand it any more than anyone I don't choose to interpret it to mean we're an application state. We haven't retracted the application, it's just lying there, or it's been put on ice, and if we want to pick up the talks later, we can do that. I don't know if the government can figure out what the reaction is so hard, but I'm living it as a vandalism. No one's called for action on the part of Iceland and I'm gonna ask you in writing to call for evidence of it because I think it's very important. I don't think anyone's calling for it from the EU. I experience this a little bit so that people are trying to ruin things so that if a new government - and there's gonna be a prospective new government in two years - business negotiations have to go through all the 28 nations and send in a new application. That can be very important. Whether we're an application state, which is not doing anything at the moment, and it's all right, everybody agrees with it, or whether we're going to end the discussion and we're going to have to start over again. It's just vandalism and doesn't serve Iceland's interests, you can't see it. This is just to calm down a small freckled personal interest group at home in Iceland that can't sleep at night because the discussion has not been terminated. This is how I experience it. I think it's getting so embarrassing and awkward that it's not acceptable. V.E.G. Secretary of state must act.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u273	A respectable president. I can say with what. Senator. This is a small government of the freckled man. In this regard, I'd like to ask why. A senator to see how the Senate tradition is handled. Now I know at least no example, and suppose that no one else, because he was invented here 1940, would have gone against the Council's resolution, though it was approved in some other election period. In Denmark, where we come from our richest tradition, there is no evidence that a government has ever opposed the decision of a Danish council. Mustn't just say it clearly in English. The minister of state has seriously violated a long democratic tradition in Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u274	A respectable president. This is what we have been asking ourselves. What, then, are we doing in this case if Congress has no value? I may have felt as if I were performing today in the highest court. The secretary of state in the beginning that if the discussion was terminated, the new government would still have to submit a pact proposal for the council if it was to be resumed. But I ask: If the government can cut it off without taking it through the council, why would the new government have to take it through the council if they want to start a business interview? Why do we cross one or another through the council? [[Up front.]] Then we can just skip it. Then why are we here? It is so expensive to keep us generals in line. Then why are we doing this? It's a natural word. Then there is another. The people choose the Council, votes for us, and ministers serve for the council's office. No one chose the highest. Secretary of state. [[The president calls.]] He was not elected as Minister of Foreign Affairs, he was elected to be a senator, and I think it's the highest. A minister should bear that in mind. [[The president calls.]] If there had been a vote here about who should be the highest. The minister of foreign affairs during this election period may not have been Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u275	A respectable president. It's kind of a press shift we're on here because there's some interpretations coming into the Senate table. First of all, the secretary of state and prime minister of the United States say that the letter is made in consultation with the European Union. All right. We have opinions about this, and these opinions have been accepted here. Commencing with the European Union. This morning the news reports from the same European relationship that doesn't understand the letter that was made in consultation with the European Union. It just says: Iceland has to figure out its own business and decide what it wants, etc., because the European Union feels that it is not possible after the letter was made in agreement with the European Union. A respectable president. It's natural like some kind of nonsense, the situation we're facing. I kind of think the quest we face is the search for what the situation is now and what is the simplest thing to do in order for us to get to that place at least. until the fog is clear. Well, maybe. A senator agreed with me that the best and the most natural way for us to know a common assembly, nation, administration and the European Union where we are is is that this letter will be retracted?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u276	A respectable president. I can say that, of course, on dragging the letter back, that's a very good idea. But since the beginning of this regime, I have felt that it was foreign and has been breaking down in this European Union to blame the European Union. We need to do this because the European Union calls for information. So it is now stated: We have been in agreement with the European Union on the basis of this letter. I'm just waiting for them to say that the European Union wrote the letter. Otherwise, I'd like to know who wrote this letter. The name of the official does not have to be said. Is that the Department of State? There are rumours that the president wrote it, that's unclear enough to do so. Is this letter written at the State Department?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u277	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u278	V.E.G. The secretary of state is naturally responsible for the letter. This letter is just not good enough unless my conspiracy theory is correct, which failed, in fact, only that the letter should be vague enough, so that the European Union would somehow accept what it was but still be able to say to the people: No, you see, it says in the letter, we don't say anything broken, they've just decided. I may be crazy, but you don't understand up or down, you're trying to reach the subject somehow, and there's no one speaking clearly somehow, and it's really uncomfortable, something like we're speaking each other's language. But it's an amazing situation. As it all worked out, the European Union seems to appreciate it so that we are still with our application, no harm done, so we can just continue and continue at the highest. A foreign minister may begin to focus on something else.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u279	A respectable president. Sadly, each project runs another from the government class, which is out of control, both in terms of content and presentation. It is most difficult to remember the natural pass and many more of such prime signals and members of the council that are at the table of the government. I think, in the context of that, it would be nice to review the exact exact same situation a year ago here at the Senate Hall, when the General Assembly Council Directive was given. A year ago, a minister was so bad, bad, and stupid that he was kicked back with her. Then the proposal is discussed for a few days during the council, and then falls into captivity. paritaprevir Ármannsson, the son of Aargis, no more, just sinks there on the black hole beside him. Senator. [[The president calls.]] Then this ŠafferaHow now, and I just ask, does the government have anything to do with it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u280	A respectable president. I have a new theory. You're so tired after that long day that you're beginning to bullshit here on the platform, but you're right. A senator says. The government doesn't really have any issues. We're waiting for such big things as housing, rent and complaint, and I don't know what and what, we're waiting for them. Maybe it's out right now... [[Off-limit insurance.]] Off-limits insurance and stuff. Perhaps this is forward right now so that we have something to discuss, we are busy with it. It's a smoke grenade. Although we were never going to do anything about this, we keep the council busy for a week or two, no one will notice that we have not come out of our affairs. It's a theory. Then I'm done.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u281	A respectable president. As I have to say, as the discussion goes further and further, I always feel embarrassed and embarrassed. It is natural for us to have to live here with government because we do not agree with one another on what one letter says. How can this be done, Mr. Honorable President? How could it be that a person has a different view of what is said in a letter sent in the name of the government? That's what we've seen in recent days? It's incredibly embarrassing, and I don't understand how humans expect to be dealt with in the future after all of this. Besides, I have to mention something else that's also incredibly embarrassing, and it's the way officials of the government have been watched here, especially the forwarding party because members of the Independence Party have been more and less absent during the discussion, with the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, why. paritaprevir A Birgir - old Ármannsson who has been well watched, other senators have not been seen in this discussion. It's just that simple. Those who have done so have come up here and tried to argue that the directors of the administrations said something completely different from what they said in the action of elections when we make interviews with both of them because they make it very clear that they think there will be a national agreement in the elected period to settle the matter. They try to keep some kind of defense against it. Let's just stop. Just say honestly that they changed their minds and they're trying to screw up the campaign promise. It is far more honest than it is to be in the middle of a series of embarrassing defenses, claiming that people did not say something well documented, whether on video or on the Internet or on the media, what they said, even in the published elections of these political parties. There is no way to argue with that. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir Gunsdótttir did, saying: "I've never heard the head of the advance party say that it should be elected and the case should be paid nationally, and so it hasn't happened because you didn't hear it. Then it's only a pleasure to inform her that this is recorded, at the beginning of April 23, 2013, in the event of an election, he directly said that his company, the forward group, assumed that a vote would be held during the season. It would just be a little uncertain about timing. I don't think there's anything else to say, and I think that you just have to stop and admit that they've actually betrayed this point and that they don't intend to live up to it instead of upholding such defenses that no one believes because it makes men not believe anything else that they're going to hold on to in the near future. The most embarrassing thing of all, I think, is already the highest. The secretary of state is about to launch a spokesman for the European Union or the enlargement director of the European Union in the media. I don't understand how a foreign politics gets fired in this country. I just don't understand. It's a trouble run from A to A. If you find anything, then why don't they just say it right? Why do all kinds of interpretations need to be interpreted? Could it be that a person can't put it straight because there is no more real issue in this matter at the council? Could it be that people are trying to hold on to some means to make it all happy, but this is how they mess it up? Why did the matter fall asleep on a committee during the last assembly? Why? Could this be because there is no agreement in the Independence Party? You see, that's the way it is. It's completely annoying that men can't speak honestly, they're in this embarrassing act. There are so many paradoxs in all this discussion. I think it's very special that men talk like this when they see that it's the highest. Secretary of State, when the IPA grants were called back, stated in the media on August 18, 2013 that Iceland was no longer seen as a state in an application procedure. Why, then, did this letter have to be sent? Man of the highest. Minister not what he says between months? In August 2013 he claims that we are no longer a state in an application procedure. It's all one problem because people really don't agree on it. It's just that simple. The Independence Party knows that professional life is more and less opposed to the fact that this will be done and the men there want to complete the parting process, and that is simply so that they will have a considerable impact on members of the best party. That's why people don't try to finish it and want to keep it open. But then they also shall stand here and be men to say it. So I feel like internal contradictions in the whole process when people say here that it's just an old-fashioned, it's just obvious from all data like that. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir said earlier, it's the worst thing to walk in this European Union, and it's obvious that the people will reject it, that's her conclusion, and must be the result of the nation and not have to vote for it. But why not respond to the nation's call for national payment and then allow them to be broken into national regulations? What are you afraid of? If all of this is so boring, I don't understand why people are not prepared to give a vote on this matter and allow it to be settled. Or could it be, a respectable president, that people are afraid of this, as in other cases, that they will not be benefited? Is that possible? Could it be that in discussions about participation in the European Union, there are no money policies in this country? When making a decision to close the door and if they walk e.g. During the season, and decide to break up business, which is obviously not being done right now, the door is closed to a currency that could actually work for us Icelanders in international business and may cause us to get rid of insurance and gain interest on mortgages comparable to what happens in other countries, etc. They may fear that conversation. Fearing that they have no direction, are they not? Fears that it will be exposed to e.g. the big promise of insurance will never be kept, and humans will never be able to keep it because this discussion will draw it all together on the surface? And I have to say for the moment: what is more than any country's management when people decide to close one door to the European Union that is truly involved, and therefore, the most likely best option we have today is to pick up a useful currency, without offering any choice, without presenting a complete, reliable policy in money matters instead. She's never been. That's probably because this government is so preoccupied with the past like the dog. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingadóttir mentioned earlier, that there is no vision. The only thing that humans can stand in and cannot escape is some kind of resolution to the former government, and this seems to be one of the factors involved. All the decisions made by the previous government are being made so that none can go on. Where will we end if it is government emphasis? I think it's a responsible part of how the government deals with the authority it has, in what way it's being associated with law, politics, and decisions from the Council. I must also say that the arrogance that distinguishes the entire behavior of the government is a major concern to me how this will be followed throughout the terms of the year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u282	A respectable president. Thank you. Senator. It's not easy for a person to accept the presumptuousness of this government, but when it goes together, arrogance and pride on the other hand, and then the amazing clumsiness and famine walk of one case after another, it's so humiliating for Iceland to see it. We're gonna go for a second. A senator in common is to have observed politics for some time, and I'm still trying to understand what really happened in those two - to - one weeks from the highest level. The prime minister still spoke about the interpretation as being coming to this time of the day. I wonder, because you're trying to put yourself in the place of those who have both a certain vision of power and self-control and are so tiny clumsy, if it's that when the advance party fights for its life, because he's losing his flight and he's in the historical paths and has nothing, in fact, has played out the campaign code, the sleeves are empty, there's nothing left, he thinks to himself: hey, this is the thing. Let's take it this way. And then the Independence Party thinks, "It's not quite easy for us to go through with this European relationship because it's too angry with people who pull in different directions. ' On the one hand, we're talking about the Morning newspaper and the lndependence Party's angry party, and on the other hand, we're talking about a professional way of life. Then the Independence Party says, "I know, we don't take this through the council, 'cause it means that neither the angry callers nor the professional people will have to deal with votes, but we just say, "Hey, the foreign minister just sends a letter. Isn't that the way it was?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u283	A respectable president. This is absolutely a great teaching because it is obvious that this decision has been made in some brier somewhere. You've been in the game, and you've been driving on one letter to solve the matter and you haven't seen the consequences of it, because you've become so accustomed to saying one thing and doing something else altogether. We see, for example, the tranquire of the vultures, that they were to be taken and turned down, but when they have the opportunity to do something about it, they are sitting by in votes, where they are to be taken seriously, as it is memorable. The team of forwards has paid no heed in this regard. They make a big campaign and say, "Hey, we're gonna cancel insurance. You can do it only after lunch, all you need is the will. And what is being said about it? Nothing. There is one report now, and it seems to me that it is going the same route as that of the karatillagan foreign committee at the greater part last year, i.e. In the drawer, the other bottomless drawer that can't be found again. That's a long way to go. Yes, I don't think it's unlikely why people have decided to bring something to show up, because that's what this government does, it's always showing up and doesn't bring back anything. What I have to say is that I'm worried about how this will affect Iceland's face and image. We are completely and completely dependent on our trade with the countries, we are dependent on them, and we also want to be open country, we want to do international business, and I'm concerned about how this affects our reputations in this country, all of our problems and the few hearsays of the politicians who are part of the European Union and the states within it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u284	A respectable president. It may be a little awkward for the board of directors to believe that this will be the ideal period half after a few weeks, and it can no longer be claimed that all is to be taught by the former government. So, then, is it not the time for people to realize that they are really in much of it? I think it's the main stage that people in the government have to face, that they no longer walk around here with their chairs and scream, no matter what's being discussed. But this cannot be avoided, since we are exchangeing our views on the real political reasons for the situation that has come up, that it is not merely that the issue is not settled in the independent party, as noted. A senator, rather the Independence Party plays an angry machine. It is on the cliff of breaking apart in a more decisive way but has taken place for a very long time and under the direction of a chairman who has to face first of all the fact that he does not sit at the Board of Directors, the historic seat of the Independence Party, and second, that the party is taking a position as a quarter class. The class that has claimed to have a legitimate requirement for 30 to40% follows here for decades. I want to ask you why. A senator whether he agrees with me that the only way to correct this dilemma is to pull that letter back and ask the people about the next step.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u285	A respectable president. If it were to happen that humans should zero and stop now and ask the people about the next steps, it would be a great piece of writing for this government because it would actually be the granting of a vote code given. It would be interesting to see if you would, because that's the only sense. Let us clear ourselves from the past, put it aside, and look at the present. We're politicians who want to do our job well, we want to have a good relationship with the people in this country. What do we do with 55 thousand signatures from Iceland that ask us to get access to a matter? What do we do with it? Of course, we will listen to it and will wish to do so, for that is how we should work for the future. Governments have changed, they have changed very much. They have changed, so people no longer want to see determined world leaders, as they did before, and they want an increased approach to big decisions. And it is natural to do so. We did some of that during the last term, and I think it gave us a good shot. It's because we did the right thing and the people in the country were allowed to do it. I'm thinking we should finish our business talks. Although I may give some warning about their final outcome, I feel that we should ask the people about the outcome, and I will have that conclusion. But this government does not seem to dare.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u286	A respectable president. In a speech or two. The senator reviewed how it is impossible to make a decision that the presidents of the High Priests and the Independence Party promised a national vote for elections. I agree perfectly. It is not new that candidates in the election make promises, let alone in the case of this particular incident. Orders of government. What is new, however, is that they ignore the Council and then justify it by what I want to mean to be a mistrust proposal at the General Assembly on the part of the Supreme Assembly. Secretary of state. Now we can be clear because I am and am. A senator is not a member of the government that it is not a government that pleases us, and there is no reason to expect it to please us in this regard. I'm beginning to wonder if we should have faith in the Council, this institution here. That's really what worries me. That's why I wonder, is it enough to talk about the European Union? Why don't we start talking about democracy basically? Then, in particular, I mean the language of the people who are thinking of making national pay but also the verbal right of a smaller section of the General to improve the work at the General Assembly. Most important, it is separating the government from the General Assembly so that these are, in effect, two organizations. Is that not where we need to bring the focus in this discussion?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u287	V.E.G. President. I couldn't agree more. A senator to this and, in fact, to others, e.g. Treatment of a frame plan and other such cases, however, indicates that strong lines need to be sharpened pretty well. People seem to be in touch with their authority, their legislation, their conclusions, and those of the Generals after perfect practicality. Is that how we want it? No, we don't want to. We want clarity. I think it is of utmost importance that we here at council take a very deep discussion about the state of this institution for the next few days. The chairman of the council will fail if he does not have the prerogative to do so in the light of what is now taking place. It's just that simple. I also think that, as I said in answer to earlier, we must begin to respond to the call to make adjustments in our procedures in an increased way that we are going to ask the people for advice on major matters. Thus we also escaped from what appears to be a dominant force in this government, avoiding the influence of selfish interests as much as they actually do. We look for special interests to cause the land to be ruled by music. There's no direction, there's no long-term vision, there's no big picture drawn up by where we're going. There's sobriety here and where decision-making is determined, which is random but not more random than then having special interests at its back. They control this land through the present government. If we open our decision-making and invite the nation to join them, we will remind them of the importance of special interest forces. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u288	A respectable president. V.E.G. Britain's prime minister, Winston Churchill, once said that democracy was the worst form of government available except all the others who had been tested. Now I feel a little bit like I've been trying to make a promise to the delegates, get into power, and be in power for four years no matter how much they cheat, no matter how much they want to hire something on their own, etc. But when we look at the stakeholders, who certainly seem to pull some strings here and there, you see them clearly, for example, in the case of the continuum transfunctioner. You know that there are big financial interests involved. But what really surprises me is what interests me to convince the highest. Secretary of state that this is a good idea. This is a good way. In any case, you would have thought that special interest groups could have found some process that would be less spectacular, perhaps saying more about the highest. Secretary of state rather than the interests. Each one must judge himself. At any rate, I realize that this specific implementation of our democracy, which we must not forget is important and beyond what many other nations have, is not working under these circumstances. If the Parliament doesn't work, we're in a place in the Icelandic legend that we haven't anticipated since quite a while before the republic. Have we not reached some sort of breakthrough in the way we should view Icelandic democracy? Don't we need to start thinking outside the box about how we react to the government?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u289	A respectable president. If you don't mind me adding a little cheeky noise. The senator is such that this discussion begins, i.e. This letter arises, and a person makes a sassy decision that he does not need to ask the council what he wants to do, for more is to be said to be done. It wasn't a vote in the council room. It was a vote for the supposed people. Then there is what happened here this morning and is the association of these same parties to the law adopted from the Council, and that is a link to the box. The management plan reflects and shows so good about the cards, how people are going to work and how far men are willing to go when they want something or need something and have to put something through. This is what I'm saying because the Law on Framework is about men making themselves creative at the council on how decisions should be handled on certain matters. That's what we do in a lot of other things. For example, it is working on a big case of this kind in a budget - a government law on public finances - that is also creative to the way in which a person is going to care for those matters. The card is showing us that if they don't think otherwise but the process reveals, the law is pushed aside briefly. There's something that I'm really worried about and that I'm going to undermine and it's starting to undermine the institution we're in here. Once we have reached that point, we need to start thinking things over, such as that. A senator talks about it. Then we will need to find new ways to make decisions and make those decisions in a clear and democratic way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u290	A respectable president. It will end with our discussion today, and it will be held at a meeting tomorrow. I'd like to before we continue calling for President to get us the data we need to continue our discussion, i.e. the written data at the highest. Secretary of State can testify to the fact that the European Union called for explanations on Iceland's position, as noted in his case and other government leaders, and particularly all the evidence of the secretary's consultation with foreign officials, i.e. The European Union, as to how the Council can be avoided. I think we need copies of e-mails, memos of meetings and stuff, letters or whatever it is available to show us this consultation and what it meant, because it is of course very important to the Council to carefully review it in what kind of state minister has actually been in the past few weeks since he last changed his mind in the main matter that he was assigned to this ideal period, which is Iceland's foreign policy. As noted, at the beginning of this month, he felt that he was moving here at the General Assembly on the subject. True, it was a new position for the minister of the first part of this year that has changed in his headache and the largest foreign language in Iceland, since he has now come to believe that the matter he intended to transfer in recent weeks is not to be moved and that he does not need to be moved. Before Christmas, however, he was not saying that such a matter should not be held as it is today, nor should he believe that it should be moved strongly, as he was on the first quarter of 2015. No, for during the last quarter of 2014 C.E., the minister of foreign affairs thought that he might have delivered a matter of Congress over the nation's largest foreign affairs. Before that, well, I'm not aware of what the minister of the State was counting in this legal case in the third quarter of 2014, but I know that in the second quarter of 2014, the minister of state felt that it was extremely important to present a matter of Congress on this central business. However, there was again a change in the position of the minister of foreign affairs in this same matter that had been held during the fourth quarter of 2013, it was that he did not have to deliver any matter of Congress on the subject. That's what counts to me that in less than two years, I have the highest power. The minister of foreign affairs managed to divide four or five times in favor of the nation's largest foreign language and its main duties. I think it says quite a lot about the failure of the State Department for some time and of its inadequacies to handle matters and now has put us in position that our main member states don't know what is going on, just don't understand what's going on in Iceland and have the option of saying they're not going to interfere with this nonsense. What's this all about? On one occasion, in many conflicting statements by the minister of the State during the last days, he said that this would be over, and then the upcoming European Commission of Iceland would be completed. Then we have to ask, how did that start? This issue began at the National Assembly of Iceland, with a greater proportion of the National Committee adopted national policy in Iceland's foreign affairs with a greater proportion of votes that have been followed. What is the minister saying when trying to put an end to that mission without enforcing it? First of all, he is saying that the government of the former could only have made the decision to apply for membership in the European Union without ever applying it to the council. By itself, if the minister does not have to submit it to the council to cancel the application, it may not have been necessary to apply for initial application. How do they defend it? One defends it this way by saying: Well, men can always express a lack of confidence in the government. Then some may ask, "Yes, isn't that just a democratic approach? " No, a respectable president, that's from time to time. There are bullies on the European Commission designed to put the members of the council against a wall, because even if you are not at odds with one decision made by the Commission and would never have given her their support in the council, and for that decision, it doesn't necessarily mean that you are prepared to express trust in the government and to overthrow it, and thus all its affairs. That is why the minister's problem is that the Independence Party has not brought the matter against its own investigation and has therefore taken an impervious measure of putting its members against a wall in front of the word, forcing them to have the choice, not to resist this evil and stupid decision, but that if they want to oppose it, they have no choice but to overthrow the government with distrust. This is the incorrigibly hard work. It is simply so that since the office of the minister of foreign affairs was instituted in Iceland in 1940, I don't know anything about anyone - I'm waiting for the highest degree. Minister to correct me if he can name me alone - I don't know of any foreign ministers who have gone against the Council of II until 2015, that's what Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson does, and it's a big story about Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson and it's not pretty. [[Up front.]] In the beginning of this election period, he was going to try to go past the General Assembly rather than to remind of this Icelandic democracy tradition, if you were to commit your confidence in the words of the former prosecuting officer and the minister of the Foreign Minister Sverrisdóttir, probably outside the Council of Government, tried to refer to a Danish scholar who has become known in that country for claiming that one government is not bound by the members of Congress who have been approved during previous terms. It is, I think, quite difficult to say that there is a dominant attitude among scholarly dance groups and, in fact, reason to say that I know no example of other ministers going against the approval of the Generalis in this way except foreign ministers. But even in Denmark, since this tradition of action is not as strong as it is here, there are no examples. There are no examples in Dana's foreign history that the government has gone against a resolution approved by the Danish Parliament, although it has been approved in the earlier election period or the earlier election period or the earlier season, or the earlier one. Our Democratic tradition is simply that the Allied Congress agrees with the laws and terms that governments operate on and that governments want to change their approval, the governments will bring about and receive support from members of Congress rather than just act in a state of unauthorizedness from the council, setting up members of the government against the sole advantage of overthrowing the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u291	A respectable president. This morning's Web will consider the discussion of the day and the report of a foreign minister who has been discussed here today, and the heading is no longer necessary on account of his letter. It describes the highest point of reference. A minister to the law and various formalities that support his conclusion that he did not have to have a word with a foreign legal committee and that he would not have to consult with the Council, he did not need to consult his own council, which was, though, not specifically discussed today. However, this is the decision of the Minister, both after formal and political assessment of the situation, i.e. that there is no need to consult with your own government parties, there is no need to consult with the State Department, and there is no need to consult with the Council. This is to say that it is desirable not to consult unless you are compelled to do so. It was like it was out of control for some reason - and I'm asking you why. A senator what he thinks of it - to consult his own party? Was it inconceivable to consult with a foreign legal committee? Was it inconceivable to consult with the Council? What would have happened, what was the danger in each of these cases?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u292	A respectable president. None of the Ministers now serving in the government of Iceland have been Ministers before. In short, the lack of experience is fraught with much. This is the identifying mark of all the administrations of this government and, more important, because consultations would have been in the best interests of the government itself. [[Up front.]] There is no difference in Iceland's Memberal application that the European Union is a major foreign matter. No one needs to argue about it - the minister can call out as he pleases - all Icelanders know which is involved in the European Union and the question of being major foreign, and of course it would have been reasonable to consult with the foreign committee. It may well be at the top. A minister may find some examples that the matter has not been consulted with a foreign press committee, but it just doesn't make it any better, just not better. It is simply a lack of judgment not to submit to a foreign committee as clearly as is a major decision, and the other is, of course, just a conscious shunter at the Council to try to do this in a letter that he has not been able to do with the strength of the General Assembly, perhaps because of some lack of cooperation but, nevertheless, an obvious disregard for the council. You must simply conclude that it also leads to the lack of experience, for the response is far from successful in what the minister does.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u293	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for sharing his thoughts with me. It's actually that way, and it's very interesting, and I don't know if we've often thought about the fact that since 1974 it had always been that at least one minister of a new government had been in the previous one. For nearly 40 years it was like this, so there was a combination of experiences at the Council of the Management Board from 1974 at least, perhaps 1971 I'm not quite sure, to 2013. It's the first time that it happens that it's a perfectly clean table and it's infested with people who have never been in the Council of Control, every one of them. This had not happened before. It may be, and it is up to scholars in the future to consider whether this actual fact, this historical and political fact, is one of the major explanations of how unopposed this government will handle one thing after another, because it harmonizes with a certain political self - image that is involved in the use of power, that is, in effect, a sense of authority, and the lack of experience. Yet, I would like to pray. A senator, because he did not react to my question earlier, answering this question, What does he believe was behind that particular and apparently a decision made by Iceland's government to shun a body of members in this large matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u294	A respectable president. There is only one thing that can live behind it. The government's ministers have likely considered this to be so that members of their members and members of the group would have serious doubts as to whether the government had a wise strategy. I don't think it's the only thing that a minister of the State calls it a better view than the Ministers seem to have had, i.e. that it would be inconceivable to perform in this way, to do the evils that would follow, to cause disappointments in people who made a clear promise, both by the forward party and by the Independence Party, in the form of elections, and perhaps least in the indiscretions that involve not merely wanting to hire or betray promises - let it be, though, that they should make their own decision in good standing not to fulfill promises during their own terms, but the aim to ruin the future with these actions, I think that she must have met great opposition to both the members of the U.S.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u295	A respectable president. Hv. A senator went into the language of some executives to demand a mistrust plan if anyone disagrees with the avoidance of the Allied Council. I'd like to hear about them a little bit more because I really think it's better than we may have figured out so far, i.e. the attitude of this government to the Order of Congress. Then I'm not talking about the government opposition or the smaller part. I'm talking about the members of the board. If you talk to someone, if they don't like what you do, that they express distrust, you're saying she has nothing to say about it unless there's such a radical tool. And distrust is the most radical tool we have in this town. For example, if we say "what " is the case. 3.m. We're out of here. "Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir has something to do with this practice, well, she might as well declare a lack of confidence in the government. That's what the government is saying to its own people. I can see it as nothing but oppression, not oppression of the smaller parts, but the oppression of members of the greater part that cannot then criticize these ridiculous and disgusting tactics, except in the same line of expressing distrust or having nothing to say. This includes the highest power. Governments to the Council. I'd like to hear more words about this aspect of this force from what happened. 9th. Reykv.. The path to the program "umount"
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u296	A respectable president. I think the government ministers have shown due respect for their members and members at the council party. Friday night. But the way of setting people up to the matter in one matter and answering it when criticized is possible, in that they can only be presented with distrust as a misuse, because the minister of foreign affairs, which I believe, at least the chairman of the Independence Party, Bjarni Beneitat's Benediktsson, has claimed this, well knows that they are loyal political parties. Of course, it takes a lot of effort to bring up their own government, and that is why it does not include any democratic part of one government's decision that it does not result in man's decision to overthrow the entire government. This is, as I think all people who are aware of politics, a man's way of blackmailing not only the government but their fellow soldiers. And I think what is also being said on this matter is that not only are they being oppressed but supporters of the Member States are having discussions with the European Union, such as those in particular. A senator mentioned, hm. paritaprevir Ragnhell Ragnheiður's Ríkharðsdóttir, and those who share the European viewpoints are also being oppressed but believe that this course is extremely unwise as it has been.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u297	A respectable president. I agree with that from my heart. It's not just oppression of nature. Councilmen such as Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir, who is personally involved in the European Union, or in completing contracts, rather than anyone who is struggling with this practice, as this is the way it is the way it is, the way it is of this, of the Generals' parade. I said last year's answer to my question. A senator said that a form of distrust was the most radical weapon we have. Now it's got the highest. Ministers and other members of the Commission complained very much that we have dared to express ourselves too much about the European Union that was submitted in the past year, that instrument of violence has been widely considered. So I wonder: Is there a need for this government of yours to be whipped and to show that there is a more radical instrument on this town than a mistrust proposal, more radical than a filial one? There's no way I'm going to mention here and now but it's to say that if the rule is to be so, there's a town in town that's the highest. Ministers, may we go as far as they please until we get to distrust, what's supreme. The minister of foreign affairs, then, to tell us? Should we go as far as we can, according to Congress until the highest. Secretary of State demands a new election, or what? I don't think he wants to.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-17-80.u298	A respectable president. This workplace is based on traditions and unregistered rules and written rules. The position of all who work here is based on mutual respect. Therefore, it is so serious when a new foreign minister breaks the tradition that has been since before the Republic's establishment on how a foreign minister respects the approval of the Generalis because he has violated the rules. Then the questions arise: Does this mean that there are no rules anymore? So everything's allowed? It's not a position anyone in this room wants to be in. Therefore, it is so urgent that we discuss this matter carefully and come back to a common conclusion as to what the rules are, because until Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson found out that this letter had been written for some 75 years, we agreed on what the rule was. Now that he's corrupted it, we need to get back together on the rules. Therefore, like the messenger, the best chance of drawing the letter back immediately is that the recipient does not understand the letter.
