ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u1	To answer, Ministers of Education and Culture, Ministers of Social and Homes, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, Environmental and Resource Ministers and Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u2	A respectable president. I come up here to discuss the refugee situation at the highest level. Minister. We've been getting some vague reports that the government is working on these issues these days, and we heard yesterday that men see themselves making decisions tomorrow at a government meeting. I would like to encourage the government to do so and tomorrow make a decision about the number of refugees we can start with because there is no time to work with these people. We can also hear from the Red Cross that they believe we are well prepared to do this. In another dozen rural communities, they have declared themselves ready. We have a strong infrastructure in this country, and we can do it well. For example, when discussing these matters, I have found it a little difficult to understand the prime minister and how he speaks of the group that has arrived in Europe as if he was a group we should not look to. Do not forget that these are so - called replacements. The family decides to fund one or send the strongest one from the family first because the whole family cannot go along for some reason. We must not begin to classize people in this way in my opinion, and rather, we should normally do this through the United Nations Refugee Organization and start the program. There is a process that takes a considerable amount of time when we have declared that we would like to receive a group of refugees, so it is not later a good thing to do, declare it, and then start the Pross. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: What will the government intend for? Is the government going to arrest people in here? Is it not reasonable to go through the United Nations Refugee Organization for Refugees and do this after their actions rather than make us some very questionable crickets here on who may and who may not come? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u3	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir for the inquiry. The minister mentioned the situation of refugees that we will meet tomorrow, and as noted in the case of the prime minister, we would have charted it at the next meeting how many will be accepted as a first group, and the meeting is tomorrow. On the other hand, I want to remind myself of it as well. In his speech, a senator mentioned that we are today welcoming refugees. In fact, as early as September of the month, we have received a larger number just a year but have been received during the entire last term, so the number of people who have been granted a permit in this area has doubled as refugees or have come as immigrants from what was done during the last term. This means that we have gained much more experience in how to do this. We have worked with the United Nations Refugee Organization, and we have shaped the rules that we made in the Ministry, which is based on that experience, on how to deal with refugees. I have personally been contacted by representatives of the United Nations Refugee Organization for Refugees during this week, informing us that we would intend to receive more refugees through their cooperation. Of course, we trust their counsel on how to do so. What they pointed out was that it was very important to inform people in the best way before coming to the country about where they are going and what their situation is here. Another factor that has also been discussed and we are working on now is that there has been a lack of interpreters. For example, we received 13 Syrian refugees, who earlier this year have come up with a lack of interpreters speaking Arabic and who can interpret in our community, so we are both looking for more people but also training the already existing people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u4	A respectable president. This year of 2015, there is an unprecedented emergency, and we have an emergency with our next neighbors. We can't go to some routine review. We need to take a personal share now, and we need to realize that there is a crisis and that we will take care of the situation as such. I'd like to encourage the government to decide tomorrow to meet a group of people. In the United States, we've suggested 500 of them. I look over my neighborhood and my street, and it's like a group of people living at the block I live in, it's not more than that. It is not a large group, and we should be glad to have 500 of us already. Let us do our part in this unprecedented situation, instead of thinking that we can go through some ordinary Prozac as if nothing had happened and continue to watch some kooky terrorists as we did last year, meeting in the morning, and before. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This is an unprecedented situation, and it needs to be interrupted, and we should be responsible participants in it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u5	A respectable president. The United Nations has revealed that there are nearly 60 million refugees in the world. These people have been on the run for a long time, and they are reflected, for example, in their case. to the decision of the first government to lend the governor's ship to rescue fugitives during the last term. We know that the largest number, prior to this situation in Syria, was from Afghanistan. Happily, it has been better to help people return. In my case and in my case, and in other government ministers, it has come to pass that as soon as we took over, we decided to resume our regular greeting. Therefore, in the last terms, partial discontinuation was observed. We have also received far more refugees through the rest of the security process than before. In the last few weeks, we have seen that a number of them have multiplied applying for asylum here in the country and receiving a means of residence as refugees. [[The president calls.]] We'll, it's come forward and I said it at my beginning, meeting tomorrow and going over what the next steps are. [[The president calls.]] All those who have been working on this series of subjects, experts who advise us, stress the quality, the prowess, and the prowess.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u6	V.E.G. President. Last week it was reported that the National Institute of Iceland had dismissed some of the trustees from Syria on the basis of the Order of the Dublin, but this Regulation includes, as if all should be informed, a warrant for reimbursed inmates of the Schengen Containment to the land where they first entered the area. It is important to remember that the Dublin Protocol contains only a warrant for such a reimbursement, not a duty, as one might sometimes expect of a news broadcast. In fact, it is highly contrary to the spirit of the agreement if countries that enjoy geographic isolation played the game of directing all hands to its foundations. It may be noted that nearly five years ago, on October 14, 2010, a minister of justice and human rights decided to stop sending vacationers to Greece for a time because the situation in Greece was deemed entirely inadequate. Because of this example and in view of the situation in Europe's continental areas, I would like to ask the highest level of questions. Minister of the state of State whether she intends to submit a recommendation to stop, at least temporarily, the expulsion of the people from Syria by a reference to the Dublin Protocol.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u7	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator of this inquiry. It is here on a very important subject. Thus, the Dublin Protocol is one of the most important links associated with the Schengen cohesion and has been very important in the way we solve the affairs of the trustees, and the active role of the network in Europe and Schengen to keep these topics in place, which are the counter-requisite forces. That's right. That's right. A senator that the Icelanders do not send back to Greece for some time. Greece is not considered a safe country. This includes Italy and Hungary; they are also not considered safe countries. It's not safe to send people back there. We are now watching the situation in Croatia. Of course, we do not know what evolution will be like there. However, we believe it is important for the Dublin Protocol to work and for reimbursement, it is being sent to secure countries on the foundation of the Dublin Protocol, which can keep track of these registrations and complete the case. This is one of the things that has been being discussed in the field of Secretary Schengen lately, both this week and without doubt at our next meeting next week, because men are meeting very rapidly because of the serious problems we face. I think it's important for us Icelanders to be part of the way people make these decisions there, and here we are working the same way that the most of our countries work. We are actually following closely, but at this point, we are not ready to decommission the Dublin Protocol.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u8	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I'm rather sorry to hear that there's no way of removing the Order of Dublin from a relationship, since, in my opinion, the circumstances that exist today make me feel that I have every reason to do so. Of course, you need to keep track of people coming, but I now feel that it is more important to provide escape from a very difficult situation, which should take priority rather than writing. So I want to ask the highest. Ministers whether it thinks that under the present European circumstances, where Germany and various other Austrias are taking over a vast number of people - whether they feel that it is in accordance with the spirit of the Regulation to send people back because of the number of refugees in the continent of Europe.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u9	A respectable president. All the developments in Europe, these unprecedented events now occurring, in which we are speaking, not of any ordinary refugee stream, but of a clean national migration between areas, will put a real strain on all regulations. However, the Schengen community has been divided into countries that are of enormous importance, and people are looking for ways to strengthen these external boundaries of Schengen, which are relevant to registration. If we're going to hold on to that rule, we'll have to strengthen it so that it works. When I say I don't feel that at this point we're discussing the Dublin Protocol in this respect, it's because as soon as we start to do it, we're going to say that the whole system just doesn't work, and then maybe we're getting to another basic question, which, of course, is what will be the subsequent part of Schngen. While men are trying to master this situation and discussing it, I don't think it's time for us Icelanders to take such a step at this point, I don't think.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u10	Mr. President. The New York City mayor reported earlier that all public schools in the state had to offer programming as an independent school subject. Today's Senate resolution program will be distributed from the bright future that suggests that we prepare for the future by setting a programming program specifically into the primary school curriculum. The economy of the future will be based on technical knowledge, writing, and reading. As a result of a lack of technical education, students early exclude technology, which has a chain effect on the ongoing lack of technologically trained forces. Enlightenment on the importance of technical education has already become part of the main textbook of many of our neighboring countries, but it is very lackful that the object of teaching in the principal textbook of the Icelandic elementary school is in line with the importance of such training. The social benefits of the project would be great. By improving technical education at the top of the school system, there is an enormous wealth for Icelandic employment. However, what is more important is the lack of labour in technology and programming. This is exactly the type of industry that is not based on limited resources and can guarantee the future of this country's currency income. Similarly, teaching promotes a wide range of educational opportunities, and it is more likely that different students will be allowed to enjoy themselves and feel their strength early in life with a meaningful sense of self - strength and healthy self - image. So I'd like to ask the highest. Education and Culture Minister: Is he willing to clear the way for the future by ensuring that we prepare for the future by teaching children computer letters instead of being neutral candidates for technology? We need to continue to take that knowledge to a large extent in foreign lands.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u11	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry and commending her and the members of her council for this proposal. I think this is a very interesting subject, and I can say it here and now that I'm going to take a very close look at this. There was a new program in my last term and I had not planned to make major changes there, I don't think it's right to make changes in school files. Actually, I think it's better to do it over time. Instead of writing school files from the bottom of my mind, I feel that it is right for me to make some well - defined changes each time. I think this could be exactly a project that fits into the ideologies, that, instead of the enforcing syllabus, this could be an opportunity for us to work on such an ideologies. But that's absolutely right. One senator says, we have a serious problem in our education system that our kids in high school and up in high school even make themselves systematically separate from science and technology. This is reflected in the formulation at our university level because university levels are driven by the demand of students. If students have not been sufficiently stimulated and trained in mathematics or other sciences since they entered the elementary school, no one will be surprised when it comes to learning to study at university that they prefer to look away from the subjects of life. A senator speaks of, and their importance. Therefore, we now place much emphasis on reading in order to improve the quality of the school system. We know that reading supports other studies. We need to improve the math program and, yes, I think that's a word at the right time. This is a good suggestion, and I will take a good look at it in the very context that I just described here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u12	Mr. President. I can only be happy and content with an answer from the highest. Secretary of education and culture. I realize this is a task that needs to be cared for and maybe there are teachers not at all. But we need to start right away. We can't wait for the future anymore. It's gonna take a few years. The mayor of New York, for example, gives it ten years to prepare. I think it's a long, natural time. Nevertheless: We cannot wait much longer for the future. But I just want to thank you very much for your positive attitude and for the highest degree. A minister of education to leave this legacy behind in his career.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u13	A respectable president. I think we're all in this hall agree on the importance of the matter. A senator has called attention. We need to make sure that our education system prepares us well for the future. What is so special in the situation today is that we may know only that when the kids in the six years of age finish their college careers, much of the work we know will be gone and new jobs will be replaced, jobs we don't know, and don't know what the requirements will be for them. So it is important that children and young people take into account the fact and that we prepare them so that they will be able to adapt, make use of technological changes, transfer their knowledge into situations that will create them as individuals who will be able to survive in the world in which they will have to work and live.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u14	A respectable president. As with all the public, refugees and I are very interested in what they see today. There is an appeal from the TV advertising season today, it is a recent poll showing that 60% of the country's population wants the government to no longer draw their feet about making a decision in this anchor case, this crisis that the heavy refugee stream is currently in Europe. V.E.G. A social minister has called on the public for support for some kind of action or position on the part of the government on this matter, and it does not lack that the public has responded to it. The public has officially entered open Web sites, offered assistance, offered housing, equipment, counseling, friendship, guidance, whatever, even reading classes. It's not in the Icelandic public in this case, but it's run aground on the government. It is now said that the government may be planning a decision on the case tomorrow. Of course I do, but I would like to direct that inquiry to the highest level. The local minister I thank for being here today is willing to agree with me that under certain circumstances there is a need to distinguish between government generalisation policy, which takes into consideration some general standards, and acute refugee problems. In part, refugees have their language, but in many other ways they do not.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u15	A respectable president. Hv. A senator asks about a fundamental point, which in this case actually turns to two problems. It's always a bit tricky when we're talking about these matters because the head of the state hears what turns around and until it's through, and then social ministers take over the refugee case, so they're clear. I have expressed my view that the events in the world today are of a completely different magnitude than we have seen since World War II, and I don't think we have to argue about it, we know that. We also know that this is not something we will solve in the next few months; it is also good to keep in mind. I think, contrary to the fact that we're looking for a few years of the world scene, that all that changes could be quite different, at least for Europe, if continued at the same time. I think it's nice to try to put things in a bit more context when we look at this. In the situation in Europe today, and surely Iceland is part of the world, having a specific assignment, let's put it this way, as it were. A senator may not quite be able to get into this routine. Therefore, my opinion is that it is very important that we look to refugees in the areas where they are, the unprecedented circumstances in their territory, and people do what they can to help there too. As soon as we're talking about looking into Europe, and of course we get people here, and we're doing it at the State Department when we look at the trustees and have been getting more money and putting more energy in it, we can't forget that the problems at home and there I feel that we have to do much, much better. [[The president calls.]] However, it is difficult to answer such a question in two minutes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u16	A respectable president. I agree with that with the highest. The minister of the state to the matter is large, and I have a clear understanding that it is difficult to answer very basic questions in two minutes. I thank her for her efforts, however, and thank her for a little more intertwining certain viewpoints in this, such as. Because it is certainly not only about the arrival of refugees, it is also about entering an area where the problem is and helping people in their own countries. In view of this, the government's natural policy has caused quite a bit of anxiety, since there is actually a cutting down on evolutionary issues, the European Development Agency is ending. Clearly, there is a tendency toward this matter when it comes to government. We don't have much time here. I would like to use this opportunity to sharpen Iceland's government in viewing the issue that we now face as humanitarian and react in the light of it. [[The president calls.]] It's about humanity now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u17	A respectable president. Of course, the Ministerial Committee now working and meeting tomorrow is designed to sum up the different views of those on this subject, i.e. Different people, different people, and different people. Under that hat, of course, there are also evolutionary issues, so let's say, in the areas where people are, as I mentioned in my first answer, that's under there too. I strongly believe that we can do a lot of work there. Let us not forget what we have already contributed, which was revealed in the answer to the highest degree. Of course, social ministers and members of Congress are very familiar with the past. We contribute greatly to the Mediterranean National Guard, and I believe we can do much more when we look at both refugee camps and other items in our area. I'd like to make it my opinion, though, that we still need to keep a system in order. It is very difficult that Europe's borders are simply broken, and there is something we must do - one of the subjects we need to deal with this complex matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u18	Mr. President. I'd like to make the Akureyri Academy case a subject to a subject today and a direct inquiry to the highest level. The Minister of Education and Culture for it. After the Akureyri Academy agency in 2014, a contract was concluded between the Ministry of Education and the Akureyri Academy that promised certain financial contributions, although there are no numbers in the agreement, which is in accordance with the Guide of the Government Review that this is not done. To tell about it, the Akureyri Academy had a pattern similar to that of the city of Reykjavík. It plays a great and good role in the educational community in Northern America and has considerable resources. Requests exist to promote and strengthen the independent research of the country and its communication across the country, and this is shown in a contract between the Ministry and the Akureyri Academy. Besides, the Akureyri Academy has signed a collaborative agreement at the University of Akureyri, where it provides college students, including those who are far away from university institutions other than the University of Akureyri, office facilities, and opportunities for community and cooperation, but that field is not available elsewhere in Akureyri. $2.3 billion is expected. K. A contribution to the Academy and the preparation of budgets was made to indicate that the budget would be about 8 billion. K. ... butthisis the result. You're right about 200 yards. K. which the partner gets paid in a month. It's not working. Then you're going to pay it out every month. No one can do anything for that money in a month. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, I ask, Is the Minister's opinion making changes and standing by what I understand that the Ministry of Ministers committed itself in signing this contract? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u19	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the inquiry. You're right. A senator points out that there has been a contract with the Academy, and it is also true that there is no fixed sum. It is no doubt a matter to discuss this matter specifically during the discussion of funds at the council. This led to our decision regarding contributions to the Akureyri Academy. I'd like to point out that at the same time, we are also making a very significant contribution to the research fund and technology fund, so that funding for research has been greatly improved, I allow myself to say, which makes it possible for academic workers who are working on research now far more likely to get funding for their research in competitive surroundings, certainly. These funds are useful to those working there, and these are related in the same way as others do, i.e. There is much more now than there was in the past to finance research.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u20	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. According to the information we are on a financial committee, the work of the Convention with the Ministry of Education has taken place that the Akureyri Academy was provided for a provision of some 8 million. K. for the next two years, it will have the highest. Minister to realize that the Agency has not been able to afford to be with an employee. It's hard to apply for another strength when you're around people for volunteer work. The Reykjavíkese Academy gets nearly 19 million. K. Until 2019 C.E., while the Akureyri Academy has received from 500 of you. K. to 2.5 million. K. Strength. So I ask: Isn't it unusual that one of the institutions will have a permanent rise, but one of the similar jobs in the north will not get it? Is it wrong to assume that the sum is not the result? That is not according to the information that we have on the budget board.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u21	A respectable president. The figures shown in the budget bill are the figures laid out. Similarly, there was no contractable sum in the agreement made with the Academy. It is also appropriate to keep them in mind regarding the scope of the work being done, the numbers as it is. A senator himself mentioned the management funds this institution has had in recent years. I reiterate that the importance of research has been underscored by a tremendous increase in this financial bill for research, both to the Research Fund and, as well as to the Technologies Fund, and to the research infrastructure. It all uses the whole university community in Iceland, all the research workers, making it even better than before, and, as it were, a great revolution, so to speak, is the money spent in this category.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u22	President. Thank you very much. Minister for having a word with me about a national campaign for locks. There are some views that I would like to live at the highest. Minister and get a response. Now it is clear that this particular project and subject do not involve a human opinionary vacuum. Rather, it involves other aspects and positions of office at the highest level. A minister who thus constitutes a composite picture of the future and of the highest position. Minister to the school system. This is shown in the way money is set aside, the priorities of the system, and the priorities of the minister and his understanding of education and school work. Sadly, though, there have been large decisions that have not been dealt with. These include finishing school for 25 years or older and shortening high school to three years without specifically being discussed in committees other than financial committees. A respectable president. First of all, I'd like to speculate that the school is not an isolated phenomenon but a part of the community. He is really a community in himself, is influenced by society, and is a modulating force in society, and this is true of all schools. Therefore, I worry about the point of view that is presented in this particular project and reflected in the repeated vision of the minister that it is likely to be effective in directing changes and guidelines. For politicians who are on the right in politics, we may find it very easy to find that there are two main reasons. It is, on the other hand, a fear of diversity, global vision, and choice and, on the other hand, a very high level of central control, screening, and measurementism. V.E.G. Minister of Illugi Gunnarsson is more involved in the latter group in which the emphasis on screening, testing, analysis and monitoring is the priority in his approach to school, and would now have been noticed by independents simply saying that the surveillance industry needs more food in school because when it comes to employment, there is not much interest in surveillance, and there is talk of heavy action. Unselfishness is also something that, unfortunately, we see too much importance. When I heard during the days that the number of classes was being reduced in creative articles at early elementary schools in many parts of the country, because of the importance of a minister of education on this controversial project, my concerns were still growing. Of course, a lock in a wide sense is about much more than the technical factor at its highest level. A minister may have a focus on here too much. According to the leading school textbook, while the tools used in school have increased, the importance of children mastering certain reading and writing techniques is now focused on all the technology that students can use in their relationships, studies, and concepts in their own and in the community as a whole. This seems to be where the Minister puts more emphasis on technical activities, i.e. The technical and measurable part of a lock, but rather the part that students are active participants in creating and writing the world by creating their own meaning and responding in a personal and creative way to what they read through their available media and technology, as stated in the principal school textbook. When I'm doing a job at the top. A minister is primarily reflected in recruiting a number of advisers to the National Institute of Education in Reykjavík, but we do not see in the taxation of books or any additional emphasis on children's literature or such stimulating measures, so you are concerned about who will be the product of the great campaign. The big question may be: Will the lock get better like the highest? Minister of Illugi Gunnarsson and National Education prefer to check locks? Or perhaps much more: Will the Icelandic school become better, will society be better, and will be better prepared to participate in a democracies community? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u23	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for bringing up the current campaign. First, it is important to remember that the tests that you would like to discuss when reading, the international PISA, are not at all good school standards. You see, they do not measure things that matter so much, such as creativity, democracy, social skills, social locks, nature lock, many kinds of things, not just one form of it, perseverance, and other factors that are so important to our children. But they still measure certain factors. They include reading in the wide sense that they can read to themselves so that the person can read and understand what he reads and apply it, answering from simple questions. In high school, a respected president of the United States, it is quite well established that these can be important. For a nation like us, who has the sense of being the reading nation, there is a serious concern when measurements show that we have suffered significantly since 2000 on these testimonials and that the situation is now that 30% of our boys are having a very difficult time reading to benefit themselves and 12% of the girls. This is called the fact that when we look at the kids, when they come out of elementary school and are enrolling in high school, they go to a high school that is a long way to 30%, 27◯28%, of that group, is not able to start high school; for so - called high school, which was called zeros in the old days when I was in high school. It's a huge group. The results of this class, a respected president, are that six years after he has studied, 70% of the group are not finishing high school. We owe all these kids to hand them tools and tools so that they can read for their benefit, which is the basis of all other studies. A respectable president. I object to the approach. A senator had here and an interpretation of that. A senator is at the core of this effort. It's as wrong as it can be. Hv. A senator made a good point of showing up at one of the many events where we have been signing these meeting songs with the local government, with teachers, with parents, because home and school are coming for us, and hear what the people say, hear the students say, hear what the teachers say, hear what the parents say, hear what the local government says. And then, a respectable president, it's a different picture than the one that was drawn here at the end of the day. Senator. As far as we're going to aim for everything here, that's a very false claim. A respected president will continue to be as it has been that he is the school people, the teachers, and the school directors, who decide how to read. Of course, this is the case because it is the professionals who should make the decisions and know best about the students and the effective methods. There's no one way, that's enough. Let me point out that there are already very wide screening tests in our system, just down to high school, because we know that the sooner we explain the problem, the sooner we notice that the child has difficulty learning to read, the greater the possibility of turning this trend around and helping the child so that he can read the benefits and have the potential for all the study available. That is why it is so terribly wrong, a respectable president, and describes a big misunderstanding, to claim that this is some kind of central controlism. It would be a form of control if they said that there should be only one way to learn to read. It would be a bit crazy to hang up with that, but that's not the way it is. I'm going to say this to the World Congress: The fact that 30% of the boys are now unable to read for their benefit, and 12% of the girls are no more than a check for class distinction in our community. Education is the driving force behind all economic progress in modern societies and also the way for people to be generous and to live. A respectful president, by graduating from high school without having this special skill, we're making it as difficult as inhumanly difficult for them, as figures suggest, to take advantage of college opportunities as well as what we'll take after that. It's class distinctions, tragic and screaming class distinctions, class distinctions we're not supposed to accept. We owe ourselves and our children that we take action. This government, in particular 150 million a year, will contribute to this campaign for the next five years. This does not diminish the important work being done in school and the context of preparing our kids for active participation in the society they are awaiting at the end of school. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u24	A respectable president. I want to start by quoting the good psalmist with your permission: Reading and Writing Art is good Learn as many as possible. They Have the World With a Nation The nobles most. It is quite clear, as this reference by Hallgrímur the son of Pétursson, that we Icelanders through the ages have considered us to be a people of reading, at least from the introduction of the Housekeeping decree of King Dana here, 1746 of which the house lock was laid, i.e. that each town on the ground should have at least one One person would read to share the Gospel with you during the evening watches. The last few years, as we have seen, have recededed from this image as the penitent nation. There have been indications and observations that have suggested that young people, especially boys, are becoming seriously deteriorating. This, of course, is the reason why this national disaster has now been proclaimed to read. Of course, their aims will not be divided. But I am afraid that the subject is more complex and complex than that, in a single effort, it will be completed because reading requires a variety of skills and coordination. A writing lock, a computer lock, a sound lock, a recording, a cultural ceremony that is not simply designed to combine sounds and words. If we stick to the writing, children need access to books and other publications to learn to read. They need time and access to adults who are ready to read to them and with them. It is not enough for teachers to be well - versed in the classroom, since the home must be able to support the child's locks. [[The president calls.]] This brings us to the actions of politicians and real policy that I intend to discuss further in my second speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u25	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the advocate for this special discussion on this important subject. I'd like to start by quoting the White Book of Education Minister, where he quotes the great man, Guðmundur Finnbogason, who says, by permission of the president: ▪ Each person's culture must be valued by his qualifications for living and working in human society, living, and working so that each day his life will be worth more to himself and to others. This gives me a feeling of absolute interest in education and learning and participation in life. You have to know how to read. The ability to read is a basic ingredient in school. Like others, I was struck by findings showing that 30% of young boys could not read for their benefit when they finished school. It's a fairyly high number, and it's not acceptable at all. As for the national campaign to lock, I am glad that, of course, we can always argue about the other and this, how we employ money and what else, but the key is to form a solidarity on this and that we all work together to improve this. I feel that the purpose published in the White Book, that 90% of basic schoolchildren read, is very noble, and I will take part in it with the highest force. Secretary of education. I'd also like to underscore the tremendous importance of the nursery in this. I was present as a signature on one of these contracts that right from the beginning, children helped to learn because there is a link between vocabulary and school locks and school grades. I want to end up like a dog. Ólína Þorvarðardóttir unlind Þordónardóttir did by administering a small scroll entitled Book at Hand, by Þórarinn Eldjárn: A Book in the Hand and you have no strings. A Book in the Hand and you fight to the beach. A Book in the Hand And you turn into a duck. A Book in the Hand and straight into the lands.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u26	V.E.G. President. All of us realize that the schools of our country have many good jobs where employees do their part to meet different needs and abilities. Even so, statistics from various screenings show that 12% of girls and 30% boys fail to read and cannot read for their benefit or fun. I just want to take one of the poles here during the discussion, which is that, while I'm very worried about these numbers, I put a little question mark in addition to various tests and aspects of them. The primary school curriculum is that we need to have different teaching techniques for the different needs and abilities of students, and many teaching methods are aimed at trying to reach out for different groups of people with different abilities. Then there are some screening programs that students take on a particular date that measures the specific factors, which makes a big difference in day - to - day format, can have a major impact on the factors measured. I feel that we need only look at the context in that context, despite the fact that I'm not being overly concerned about these figures that are appearing, but we need to see how this is going to get along. All I want to do is say that I'm celebrating this national campaign and that it seems to me to be a great deal of solidarity among the employees of this school, who are important among the council members and with us members of the council. That's what I think is one of the major factors in our success in what we're doing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u27	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for this very good and interesting discussion. I'm of the generation that's had to do some PISA tests pretty regularly. They were really boring, that may have been what got out of each of those testicles that we had to go through through through 7th, 8th, 9th, and 10th grade. It was just how long these tests were and really boring. I'm of this ADHD generation where hyperactivity and attention deficit are right, left, everywhere in the school system. They need to appeal to people differently, not just to throw in some Icelandic story and expect them to be good people - teenagers too are people and children are people - suddenly learning to read or learn to understand what is right. My experience was that Anna of the Green Sea was not much of a fun book. Reading needs to be fun. That does not mean that people will read if you put a book in front of them. It's been a while, a little long gone. People are now reading in and out of the house day in and day out, we do a lot of writing on, i.e. On the facebook and Twitter and I don't know what. Reading for the benefit may have changed a little. I'd like to put a question mark on how much you can take note of such PISA surveys that are both long and boring, in my opinion and on the basis of what my schoolmates said; maybe we should consider how reading is being conducted in terms of entertainment for young people.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u28	A respectable president. I'm glad we're here at the General Assembly speaking important issues, such as lock up children. I think it's right for us to think about the angle. That's what we need to check when we discuss with PISA, which is the standard that most of us here are referring to. The fact is that the Western countries are less affected by this survey than by other communities, e.g. The East Asia communities whose values differ from those of Western societies, so we should reflect on exactly what the PANSA assay is. What exactly is it? Do they prefer the Western democracies we've been building up in view of the fact that they're the best-growing communities in East Asia? Now it's just two minutes far too short to discuss these matters. A much deeper discussion of education is needed, but this is one of the things we need to consider. We also need to ask ourselves: " What are some of these? One of the most important covariates where, for example, PISA results are analysed, and has been performed considerably in the North countries - I especially remember a dance study showing that those who get the best out of PISA are not necessarily those in a particular school but those who live in certain home conditions, i.e. The home, the circumstances of parents, seems to have a dominant influence. Then we should look at it only, too, because part of this work is advice from parents and other factors, what is the best thing we can do to promote increased reading in the homes that have such an impact. I have to say, while effort may be a good price, I find it quick to think that when we're saying we're worried about reading, the same government goes up and goes to the effort of paying taxes on books, making it more difficult for book editions to promote, not just for adults, but for children and adolescents. [[The president calls.]] I, who regularly go to bookstores and study the latest edition, think there is good reason to worry about that. Children need to enjoy reading, and then they need something fun to read, something new, something that reflects their community. [[The president calls.]] I think we should be discussing it here, Madam President, when discussing the locks of young people.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u29	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion. To me, it is clear that there is something wrong with the school system when 30% boys and 12% of girls cannot read for themselves. That is the main problem we face. Why is he and how do we solve him? Is it because teaching methods are not correct? Is there one way to teach more correctly than another? I say no. But there is a problem, and we need to resolve it for the students in such a situation. And how do we do that? It's the lead. I trust most students in most things, but students must also be prepared to accept criticism if so, so that after ten years of high school, students cannot read for their benefit. Then there's something wrong with the school system. Let us identify the problem and agree with it, for it is what counts for children, that they can apply the basic skills that are read to learn, whether on the book, on the computer, or in whatever way they come to knowledge. Let us face the problem, look for ways to work on it, but stop arguing over who he is to blame.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u30	A respectable president. I'm not sure the problem is in the school system. I think the problem may as well lie in the community itself. We here at the High General Assembly are often making decisions that directly affect social conditions, people's standard of living, people's time to spend with their children. We're making decisions on the value tax on books. We make decisions about the status of the schools in the country, the elimination of adults from schools, the memory of their educational opportunities. These decisions have been made to press high school in the country. These are decisions made here. The problem, therefore, lies at the General Assembly of the Icelanders, so don't forget. Of course, I welcome the desire to read better, but as I said, there are many things to think. Is the book available today? Is it used after a 60% increase in merit taxation, a decision made here? Let us also guard against the error of reading something that can be corrected by a single random effort until a short time because, like so many other things, we are together with many diverse cultural and social factors and conditions that we generalize are making decisions from day to day. Iceland is a small language area, and if we are to maintain a good level of education, read is essential, it requires solidarity and political support. Norwegians have made it a point that the State buys a set amount of published books at a time. There is support in action. In this country, however, government officials are speaking of national efforts to lock directly behind a 60% increase in value taxation on books, directly following the exodus of adults from high school schools and directly following the financial burden of a country's school - style. Not only will it be released but it will not be held. At times, governments could read more clearly in their own community. [[The president calls.]] [[Open the door, hear, hear!]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u31	A respectable president. Thanks for what I've been hearing here today. I must admit that the word reads often and often makes me tremble. I feel that way because in the traditional sense of that word, I'm hardly reading myself. I like to misunderstand what I read, and if I'm the correct text that I have to read aloud, I get panic over the dot, not a big but a little bit. Then I start reading, and there's always a certain uncertainty. Last night, I misunderstood a special discussion because I misread the review, and my speech was left. Statuss that I write on Facebook and the music I'm writing onTwetter clearly indicate that I'm an acutely blind man. I've come to this place today that I think all of this is funny rather than embarrassing. I don't come up here to draw out the bowls of my self-pity, I keep it for my husband and the coerist, but I think there's a reason to remind, as more have done here today, that reading is a very broad concept. I mean, I'm very emotional and personally it's more important to me than whether two n's in a word or whether a flag is written by a f-i or a w-i. It was all very painful for me as a child in high school. I know this brings pain to children today and to others with whom I went to school and went to a special class. It is in itself a good matter, but reading in the very simple sense of that word can leave many in the darkness. I encourage ministers to expand the definition of the concept of reading in this national campaign and to wonder if even more effective a national campaign on emotional stability would result in a far better outcome in all these remarkable surveys.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u32	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you for saying something, okay? paritaprevir Svavarsdóttir's Savvardís, this discussion of national zeal for readings. I also want to take this opportunity to thank the highest. Minister of Illugi Gunnarsson for setting up the campaign, this covenant to advance the locks, thus uniting the forces of all involved. I agree with what. paritaprevir Ólína, the Þorvarðardóttir daughter, this is a community assignment. It's the light I see in this race. The community is being made aware of the importance of coping with the challenges facing and has repeatedly been shown in the PISA results. This is a measuring device on how students are able to read for their benefit. We need to pay attention and respond, and this effort is under way. We live in many ways under a very powerful school system. There have been many observations. Here is a blessed distributional control of our system, but above all, it may be of prime importance that students are comfortable at their school. That's the most important measure in my mind. I watch this project as a professional process, a policy process. It is always particularly satisfying when governments follow policies, as is being done, with defined objectives, time - set measures, and the confirmation of the participation of all involved, the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u33	President. Thank you very much. Minister for his speech before and after. Congress members for the participation in the discussion that may have left more questions than they have answered. I think there's good reason to continue the discussion. I noticed that the highest. Minister said that a lock is a prescription for classlessness, i.e. that in a society where everyone was locked, there was a greater probability of classlessness - he somehow put it that way. So I would like to ask, because this is a high school political theme that is often heard: Does the minister believe that it is primarily the school's goal to correct class distinctions and to correct the difference in terms of class distinctions? And if the aim of number one is to reduce the inequities of society, I'd like to ask the highest. A minister on how he understands where the wrong is primarily in the community, and what is the best way to correct the situation of discrimination? Whether it is by various other measures the government has taken in the opposite direction and repeatedly in order to increase discrimination here, to increase the ability of the rich to strengthen their positions, and to keep them less wealthy. A respectable president. I'm going to the top. Minister to correct class distinctions and discrimination in Iceland through hard research on locks? I think it's important that you get to the top. A minister will discuss this in his final answer, as well as the way he envisions the fact that the situation in the Icelandic language is getting weaker and will not take place that the present government is unscrupulous, unashamed, merely to say, to strengthen the position of the tongue. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u34	A respectable president. For word's sake. I want to say that what is meant here is this: Children who cannot read for their benefit do not have the same opportunity for education as they can. Education is the driving force behind economic progress and economic opportunities in modern communities. Children who come out of basic schools and who are unable to read for their benefit are at risk of getting into a much more difficult situation than they can. That's what I'm talking about. It's screaming to watch the exchange - yes, class distinctions that are formed just because of this. We are to correct this, and we are to make sure that our children, at the end of high school, have as much opportunity as possible in life. I'd also like to stress, sir, that it's not to be, at all, and that it's a big mistake to let the PISAs and their results run school work in Iceland, but it's supposed to look at the results that come from them in terms of specific factors, such as reading. I call attention to the fact that we have fallen substantially in those measurements since 2000 when we first participated in this. We were in the upper part of a group of people who were well above average, but we are now well under average conditions. A respectable president. It is true here that it is complex and complex. That is why, among other things, home and school sign this agreement that state and rural society are at, because what happens inside the houses is so important. It is not for good reason that this organization is brought to us on this assignment. Then I'd like to say, sir, a respectable president, that, of course, there's no trouble here to discuss in one year's crisis. Here is a five - year program in which we will change a certain type of work and a certain job in order to increase the likelihood that our children will learn to read. Because I just want to point out that there are no numbers showing that there is a link between the value of the tax product on the one hand and the read-in, it's not. But I would like to point out that the government is adding, for example, to its collection of authors of 2012, 23 million to 70 million today. A respectable president. You're right here, it's complicated, it's important. It's not one way to solve it, but what we're doing right now is to emphasize this, achieve a good solid solidarity, and call attention to the fact that we Icelanders don't let it happen about us that 30% of our boys can't read for their benefit and 12% of the girls. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's a disgrace for our community.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u35	A respectable president. When we think about prisoners, we tend to overemphasize the people. What deserve a person who breaks someone's face, if he beats someone to death, or even kills someone else? Then we'll be awakened in our thirst for revenge, and the person standing here will not feel superior. However, while there will always be a desire for revenge, it is in its nature a primitive feeling. Vengeance thirsts the righteous wrath of the innocent, and the fear of the guilty. As individuals, we will never be above these feelings, but as a community, by formal means of making clear defined goals rather than satisfying our own primitive motives, we must be above them. Punishment alone should never be the aim but the means to achieve other goals, such as the reduction of crime, the fall of recurrence rate, and, preferably, I mean, that once a prisoner finishes a loan, he has a bright future. This means we have to help prisoners in various ways. This is where even good - hearted people sometimes become overwhelmed with the idea of helping prisoners, prisoners who have even seriously broken others, helping them with secular opportunities, good education, and staying in their homes after a loan. The idea is inevitable to remind people of all the innocent people who do not necessarily have access to it. But we should look to the prisoner when he has completed his sentence and ask us what we prefer, as a community, to be next in his life. If we approach that question, the answer may be clearer. Most people have some kind of safety net, someone to talk to when something is wrong, someone to take care of when your financial situation becomes difficult, someone who can host you if you lose your housing, at least temporarily. Such a safety net may be tiresome and boring, but it is usually present in some form. However, prisoners often have only a social safety network, which is a source of great encouragement to crime, drug abuse, and irregularity. The question of what happened to the prisoner ceases to be. Let us ask what is acceptable for society. Does it seem good to the community that as soon as a prisoner is released, he will stay with his friend in a state of disorder, drug abuse, and even crime? Is it appropriate for a community that when a prisoner finishes a loan, he will have the only option to fall in the same old world? No, a respectable president, it's not suitable for society. Betrayal is good for society. However, correction requires that we be serious by doing well with individuals who from a moral point of view are not necessarily worthy of much good, that prisoners receive the right to unemployment rights immediately after sentence does not work fair to innocent people who are hurt. But then we are impartial, not trying to reach a goal, to get the person on the straight path, and to get him out of the environment that likely made him imprisoned at first. More and more is needed than simply providing education and occasional employment opportunities in prison walls. A balance must be a complete approach that has a clear, specific purpose. Most important, we need to accept the cost of money and, in fact, the prison system regardless of the cost, but we are good if it hurts. We're supposed to get a lot of prisoners fucked up. The best savings in the prison system can be obtained by needing a little less. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Interior Minister: What is her vision of the prison system, its aims, and especially its reforms as part of achieving goals?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u36	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for requesting this discussion about the aims of prison punishments and measures to reduce the number of returns in prisons that, as we know, are far too often. Prison punishment is another two penalties in Iceland, and it consists of a detriment of liberation, which is mainly manifested by a decline in independence and the freedom of those who are incarcerated. The freedom of prisoners is impaired by imprisonment. They have to accept social isolation from families, friends, and workplaces and have to endure decisions, partnerships with other prisoners, and many of the inconveniences they bring. Regarding the aims of punishment, there are often signs that the objective and purpose of punishment may be divided into five aspects: a guarantee of justice, a charge, an improvement, a punishment, and a fifth degree of reform. One factor must be that the full limit of punishment is to protect the objective of punishment. In the past, less emphasis was placed on the restoration program in full punishment, even though he was not completely excluded. Over the years, more emphasis has been put on making the full use of human prison punishments and making prisoners more equipped to participate in society again, limiting their chances of breaking off again. It is known that long prison imprisonment can lead to some negative consequences for prisoners, such as depression, hopelessness, and so forth. Moreover, such alienation can have a profound effect on the immediate members of a prisoner. The main role of prison authorities is to try to counteract such negative and undesirable consequences, but the law on full penalties lays down some resources for this purpose, such as non-prison work, study, day leave, and bail at the end of the penal age. Then there are treatments, such as alcohol and drug therapy, the help of psychologists, sociologists, occupational therapists, and other health professionals, all in the effort to improve the prisoner and limit the negative consequences of detriment and prevent the return of a broken-up. It should be noted, however, that the above is mainly of funds, but also in certain cases of forward work, educated employees, and so forth. In this regard, it should be noted that nothing in the law of full penalties prevents prisoners from gaining increased social services from today's, work, study, etc., but this includes all the financial resources. A bill presented on the local Ministry Web site that aims to contribute in the weeks to come will further emphasize the viewpoint of correction in full measure. The bill contains a new set of goals that includes the reference to reducing the likelihood of violations and promoting a successful adaptation of judgment tolerance in the community. Although further discussion of a new bill to the full punishment waits until it is submitted, there are new things to encourage prisoners to accept. Thus, a stronger support is supported by step-change of the sentence, i.e. that prisoners work in a better setting with good behavior, drug-free life, etc. Then there is a family permit, a set of conditions for young prisoners and relatives. I also believe that it is reasonable to consider the use of new forms of penalties that could be replaced by imprisonment in some cases as well as that the completion of the term outside prison should be made available, for such measures have proved to be extremely effective, as well as cheaper than traditional penalties. Work on the full - time schedule is being carried out, but it will include steps that can be cleared fully out of prison, as well as new forms taken for review and subsequent visits by a judicial committee. Of course, in this regard we are discussing that there will be a change in general penalties to the fact that other resources will be added, called community service. It is my wish that we immediately examine the possibility of such changes in criminal law in cooperation with a judicial committee. It should be noted, then, that a Danish model for better preparation for a prisoner's release in the community in greater cooperation with the communities that provide social services. Thus, social assistance could be better guaranteed when a prisoner is released from prison, thus reducing the possibility of a return to prison. As we know, every other prisoner comes back to prison, and that's a very high percentage. The reduction in recurrence rate is an important objective, and there are different methods to achieve the best goal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u37	Mr. President. I appreciate this discussion. In terms of prisoners and prisons, we would like to compare ourselves with the northern countries, where prison return is low in international comparison and lower than in this country. In comparison, there is a difference between service to prisoners in the form of social advisers and psychological services in which we are rather uncomfortable and there is a real need to expand that service here. Today, for all prisoners on parole, there is only one position for social workers and half the place for psychologists. Prisoners on parole are not a single group, they face many different problems, and it is obvious that to support them at the end of prisons more people need to come in. For students of 25 years of age or older, there are many school restrictions on prisoners who have completed their schooling and who want to pursue education. The importance of a prisoner's education has been shown on the way to a better life. Bad educations, tops. Clearly, a government is affecting more people than prisoners. Special attention should be given to health care of prisoners, education, and employment. I'm the highest. The Minister of the Interior Council to set up groups of work which discuss the issues individually and provide high costs for improvement. A prisoner's health, whether physical or spiritual, education prospects are getting worse, and work matters include failing to obtain pension because of a job they are engaged in during the time of prison. A reduction in the number of imprisoned prisoners results in a national gain, a lack of debate, but improvement is needed and immediate action is needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u38	Mr. President. I like others to thank you. A senator for this excellent discussion, to begin it here. During the last term, it began to build a new prison on Hólmshök, which will make the situation better, even though it may be enough for only for a short period of time, unfortunately, if a change of policy remains. It was, of course, a great defensive battle during the last term, in the time of surgery, and unfortunately it was far from what our left mind was doing greener. Another factor may not be the key; it requires some content in prison. Hv. Jónasson During the last term of the final term of a full-scale change in law of full penalties, which included recording of electronic surveillance at the end of penalties and space in community service as the current highest level. The Minister of the Interior set out to be working on. On that issue, September 16, 2011, the bill was approved. The major change was that prisoners who receive a sentence of 12 months or longer have the opportunity to complete a sentence outside the prison under electronic supervision. The purpose of electronic surveillance is to help prisoners adapt to society and cope with life again. The opportunity to serve in community service was also extended so that those sentenced to nine months'imprisonment at the time of six can be judged in full - time service. The bill suggested that the time limit be 12 months, but the council changed it to nine months. Now is the chance to test whether the will is different. I'll take a closer look in my second speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u39	A respectable president. One of the children involved in one or another in child care, reports that 41% of the boys have been in custody or in prison. We discussed an earlier national campaign on locks, and I feel that both of these discussions are linked to me because there is a root of a social problem that breeds crime and antisocial behavior in the relationship between what is taking place in the development of children and what human beings they become when they are adults and how we react to anomalies. They, I say, because much of Iceland's urban population is men, has been in contact with the so - called system for a long time, and has been children of child care or troublemakers in schools and their affairs in a number of activities. There's something wrong in a community where groups of people come from their infancy and teenage years. Therefore, I here mention a national campaign for locks because there is a strong correlation between those who have a serious behavioral problem and a learning problem and those who are repeatedly involved in the law. Not only do you have to teach children to read, but you need to help children and teenagers become proper fanciful adults, and I know that this knows everyone who works with children and teenagers, and I know we know that we know this too, but we have to put money on making professional support for families and their children who have a behavioral problem and who pull into the early stages right away, right now into preschool and even earlier. A recent review of National Review of Child Protection in the country called for social and housing minister to ensure specific treatment in the capital area for children aged 16◯18 years suffering from serious drug problems, criminal behavior, and children with multiple mental disorders and behavioural problems. It is a real problem that we must face, and governments must deal with.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u40	V.E.G. President. That's a very interesting discussion. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn for bringing up the matter, prison cases. I feel that what I've heard here today is that our parish and opportunities in this field are many. We can certainly do better, but things cost money. I also liked to hear it. paritaprevir Heiða Kristín, for example, links these tasks with readings. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u41	The president asks why. A senator is a full name for other members of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u42	Excuse me, what? paritaprevir Heiða Kristín Helgadóttir, I'm sorry - linking this with locks because it is the fact that many adult prisoners enter the country's prisons without read. In recent years, there has been a great campaign for the education of prisoners, which has resulted in great success and a great decrease in relapses. So there's a lot of opportunities to think about this. According to my information, a high proportion of prisoners with various kinds of diagnosis, ADHD, dyslexia, and so we're all sure to agree that there's a reasonable means of making money to better people in prisons. V.E.G. Minister of the state, Ólöf Nordal, passed over earlier, these were five points, for the purpose of punishment, and at the bottom of the list was reformed. I think a correction should be in first place because, as I say, it's a reasonable disposition of money first and foremost. I see that I have a little time left, but I would like to present it here today that when we talk about prison cases, criticism often comes up that it should not be pampering with prisoners, prisons are not supposed to be hotels, it should not be doing them something good. No one's talking about it, we're reviewing the facts that mattered, that by improving people and making them a healthy citizen, and leading them off the path of crime, we're sure to keep people from breaking off again, and it must be the whole point. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u43	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir The Hrafn Hransson's Gunnarsson for this special discussion, which is of great interest and needs to be very careful. And I thank you very much. The minister of the local minister for a detailed answer from her, including the way she spoke about recording potential new forms of punishment. But what kind of punishment is she most concerned about? It would be nice to hear more about what work has been done in prison. The prison may be rather an old institution, perhaps the most human - looking way to improve people, to lock people away without giving them any opportunity to improve themselves. It is a question of whether the prison is not just an institution that is largely a child of its time. How much good is it if people close up in the community? I can't wait to hear from the top. In this context, the Minister of Ministers for Other and New Sentencings. While we're in prison, it's obviously important to consider the inmates in there. Prisoners are also people, and it is important to treat them as people do, with dignity and tact. They need to be given psychological services to people from the start to the finish, and they also need to provide counsel that has not always been available. Now I don't have much time, but I'm actually celebrating this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u44	V.E.G. President. I'm not used to saying thank you very much here, but I'd like to thank you. paritaprevir The Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for this discussion. I've only been in such a discussion for about 25 years, and I think we just need to get out of that phase, that big phase of emotion and rage, I'm not saying that it's abnormal, it's normal, but the sense has to come in somewhere. We cannot always deal with the full punishment of vengeance and the wrath of a weapon. So we can't go on because it's a social issue, it's society that matters how we manage to improve, reduce fractions, etc. I do not minimize the importance of human responsibilities. I am in great doubt, however, that in any case, shutting men away from the community is the right way. There are other ways to punish. I believe that we need to clear out parole, increase the possibility of other penalties, such as community service, even though men have rather serious judgments. At the same time, I realize that some people have a situation that has to be closed off. But when it is, we have to make good use of this time so that the person will be better members of society, less likely to be involved, etc. It is vital that we attend that discussion without allowing it to be controlled by anger and vengeance. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u45	A respectable president. It is said that when it comes to social problems, it is our rich tendency for Icelanders to call the concrete car and to say that we did it in the jail cases. While an important prison may be being built on the Holmsheld, we need to keep in mind that it is the content, not the houses that matter. We do not have to wait for new houses, we have, and we need to do much better at our work with young criminals. Here is the second year in a series of proposals that judges may be authorized to judge young criminals in community service. For example, we can accept it. We do all too much of our own systems, so young men are more involved in crime than they are in turning them away from that path. We can also open more available resources for a number of those on the so - called Kingdom - preaching list. 400 people are waiting for abduction, many for minor offenses. I can't imagine a long time after the incident, getting back on the straight path, and entering a penalties. It is inexpensive and wise to provide them with more open resources. First of all, we need to put money in the prisons we already have, so that there can be division so that sharing can be allowed if they display good conduct and that there victims do not have to serve with criminals who have used them to violence in the past. It's totally inappropriate, a respectable president, that is part of the service to prisoners that we have to expand in. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u46	Madam President. I agree with two last speakers. It's almost that I don't feel like I have to come back up here again. This complete approach, of course, needs to be made to the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of State, and the Ministry of Education. In itself, there is no lack of ideas for good instruments that depend on socialized solutions to the people in that position. Things often happen more slowly than you would like, but I'm glad to hear of the Minister's ideas and would like to, as more have come to, that she shared a little with us, if she possibly can, whatever they are other than here, i.e. A clear parole and some new kind of punishment called it. During the last term, suggestions were offered by the chief of police in the capital area, reminding me that one of them is entitled Good Solution, similar to the project set up in Denmark at the same time as the chief of police introduced his idea. There, prisoners can receive more social assistance during abduction, and in the end they can also receive social assistance from the company taking over, but it is the same as it was observed in the Minister's law that forbids it. We know that this social psychology and psychology aid is, of course, confined to the funds provided for a prison agency and, as we know, a considerable increase in money is needed on that subject. As noted above, the North countries, outside Iceland, have adopted reformary custody with irreverent results in a decrease in crime, a decrease in return and cost of prisons, police, and courts. I agree with the view that engineering, training, and family communication are the key to reform. Sadly, the policy of the Ministry of Education is not in harmony with what should be done. We are to approach a prison case based on the human friendship and ideas of helping those who have been judged to have success in life. [[The president calls.]] Away from the fact that such a approach results in money, the main issue is that individuals and their entire environment will improve their taste.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u47	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for this important discussion. In my heart, I don't believe in institutions in the light of piled up by people whom we say something to be just the same, where they should be hit, improved, or protected in some way. There's always a certain violation of power that I believe is particularly dangerous, since the purpose of the establishment is some kind of punishment or detriment. That's why I'm glad to be the highest. The Minister of the State has mentioned the need for us to move more to working with prisoners, criminals, in the community. Yet, we still find ourselves living with the fact that criminals are, of course, human beings. It doesn't matter what the offense is. That is what we need to approach, whether we feel uncomfortable or not. Then we need to do this with the support of a professional, such as psychologists, students and professional counselors, social worker and development therapists, for example, because we see that a number of prisoners have some kind of impairment, psychosis, ADHD, etc. So we need to get close to this. At the same time, I think it's very important that we work unorthodoxly, e.g. with peer groups in which people who are experienced in crime may be in position to assist other prisoners who are now suffering from imprisonment. Besides, I think it's obvious that correction must always be the goal for the prisoner not only so that he can accept responsibility for what he has done but also so that he can feel better and do other things. It also has to be about society. I think one of the most important ways to reduce crime rates and prevent people from going back and forth to prison is to reduce discrimination and reduce peripheralization. We can't ignore it, and it's something that I think is very important to us that we put emphasis on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u48	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for starting this important discussion. I think we all agree that we must try to increase the goals we want in prison. We would also like to reduce the number of relapses among Icelandic prisoners, who say they will return to prison after their previous sentence. However, for this to be effective, we need to contribute to further reform within the prison wall and after the prisoners have completed their sentence. In this context, I'd like to mention an act of interpretation. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir is the first traveller to, as well as other senators, who is involved in ensuring prisoners who meet certain requirements for execution or unemployment after being punished. There is a conflict of conversation among the people, so that they don't give the rights to the prisoners. But would we not rather be willing to ensure that a specific presentation is provided if they meet the requirements rather than try to get income in any other way or in a questionable way? I welcome the highest words. Minister of Internal Affairs, Ólöf Nordal, on the work being done within the Ministry for reviewing the full - time operations being carried out today. For one thing, I think because of the long list of waitings we see today, about 400 people are on the waiting list to complete a sentence, that it is necessary to explore new paths that are fully relevant. Surely, all of us agree that there is no denying that a person who has been on a waiting list for many years, on a straight track, is called into prison many years later, since this may even increase his chances of getting involved even further in crime. I'm happy for the work that's going on.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u49	A respectable president. I'm especially happy about how to do this. In fact, the Minister of the Interior will take this discussion and will address the media in general. I think you're right on top of the world. The head of the state of state to be serious because everywhere you look at these matters, you see that the budget is scarce, the cuts are or the standards as they are called, when even the safety of prisoners and prison guards is threatened, let alone in terms of recovery, such as mental health issues. There are other factors to discuss in this regard, such as cases of damage to drug addicts who end up in prison and who are only in apostate symptoms, very harsh and wicked withdrawal symptoms. At the same time they go to prison, even among other prisoners, it is not necessarily better for them to remain in isolation. Various aspects of our relationship, how things are handled inside a prison and in the system, are something we need to discuss more fully. But what I see in this room and experience in common with all the speakers, and I thank each one for his speeches, is that no one wants to bear the pleasure of punishment. I love to see that there is a common common among all who have either an internal experience, such as the driving force. 5th a.m. Smoke. N., Bristur the Brynjar of Níelsson, or have studied this sect. No one puts special emphasis on punishment as an independent goal, which makes me very happy. Another thing I notice is that everyone sees a reason for change. Everyone sees that there are things we have to do in the group. More important, everyone seems to see the cost of money and the need for money and the need to consider the fact, whether we like it or not. I think I need to listen again to these discussions after them to take in everything that has been said here, there were many good points. Thank you so much for the discussion, and especially the highest. Minister of state.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u50	V.E.G. President. I appreciate this helpful discussion. It is very important to me now at the beginning of the council, where the discussion is planned, as presented here, a bill of full punishment. I'd like to add some of the things that have been said here and focus on me. I think it may be safe to say that these issues are becoming more focus this winter with the discussions that we will begin at the council in this category. We're also looking at other factors, and I mentioned our intention of studying the law of justice. As a result, community service is now a administrative decision, and then the idea is to reflect on the possibility of cooperating with key experts that it is not desirable to be part of the rule of the penalties and then to be a judge's decision. Also, there is electronic surveillance, and we are about to expand it a little, perhaps taking further steps following the winter bill. I would also like to mention in the following discussion of the state of mental health of the prisoner that it is also finally starting work, it took some time to appoint for a team between the Ministry of Health and Internal Affairs, on the issues of the very sensitive prisoners. We will continue with that. I also take it with me from this discussion that if we look at the issues of prisoners when they come back into the community, how we will receive them. The purpose is to prevent these great return prisoners from being imprisoned. Of course, we don't want to, we want to improve their interests, we want to get them back into society. We want this to be meaningful, and we need to take steps toward the work that lies ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u51	A respectable president. I'm recommending a bill to legalize state accountants and revise state bills. I present the bill on behalf of the World Presidency Committee, all of whom are assigned to the bill along with an audience of Pirata on the committee. In the light of comments received, the prime committee revised the bill and submitted to Council 144. Then they did not get paid, and they are remanded. The Presidency Committee has reviewed the comments that had been made on the bill while it was being discussed by a management and monitoring committee at the last council and agrees that they do not provide a basis for a change in the bill. I'm going to briefly review key elements of the bill. Its chapter 1 shows the key change that a government accountant will be elected by the Council rather than by the Committee to Presidents. This underscores his independence. Il. section of the bill explains the work field of a state accountant and to which partners will be reviewed and monitored. Materially, it is not a change from the existing law. Main cognitions, III. This section covers the fact that, instead of providing a good review program for the implementation of financial reviews, it is expected that the review will be considered on official reviews and regulations. Article IV. a section on how to treat matters in the National Review Board. It calls for confidentiality and special attention to government accountants, Kingdom Accounters and others acting in behalf of the Agency. In addition, there is the right to comment on the outline of reports and reports that should better ensure the legal status of those who are in charge of a state accountant's work. The public's access to information at Kingdom Review is finally discussed. The bill suggests that the information right of the public will be made clear in the case of data generated in the relations of citizens' accountants and monitoring parties. Regarding the management of the reports to the State accountant and the information given to the General Assembly, see chapter V of the bill. The main indicators in chapter V of the bill are that it is assumed that the state-researching article of the Presidency Committee from the scope and request and expected reports. In VI. Chapters are a variety of laws, most of which are novel. Among other things, the prime committee is suggested to appoint a state accountant's remuneration in accordance with the salary of the Supreme Court. A standard accountant must be hired in his absence. The bill expects a government accountant to be elected for the first time according to 1 mg. 2.g. The bill when the current government accountant leaves work, but the current council assumes that it is on May 1, 2018. Other than that, I refer to my lead-in speech at the last legislation and then suggest that this case be carried on to the administration and monitoring committee after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u52	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for history. We discussed the matter on a budget committee and sent our conclusions to the management and monitoring committee with a considerable number of comments. I haven't even read the bill again to see if there's any big changes in it. 2.g. is about the legislation and the need for a person to be a legal accountant and not to be a General. Then I ask: Why did the prime committee decide to stick to it despite the very detailed comments made by a state accountant himself that it was not necessary and that, in their opinion, people with different educational backgrounds could meet qualifications that would support the work carried out by the State accountant? Nowhere else in the North countries is this requirement, and their comments indicate that Denmark and Norway's diplomats sign the accounts of these countries and even middle rulers. I ask, " Why do we want to stand out as different in this regard? ' The second question concerns how the Governing Body is employed. It is not expected to advertise, but mainly that the Council can nominee and the Committee to Presidents - it is said that there is no basis for this. Why, though, should this work not be advertised, such as other public jobs?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u53	A respectable president. I appreciate the discussion. That's what it's all about. A senator raised a matter of respect for the rules, conditions, or requirements for state reexamination has been considered. It is true that the arrangement does not usually require much of a legal accountant's rights. This was one of the matters that we discussed very much on the Presidency Committee, not just now, in preparation but as when we originally made it. Our conclusion was strongly that it was reasonable to make a requirement for a person who had the state - of - law to accept his authority to sign accounts. We felt that it was a requirement that would be acceptable to a State accountant, so we stuck to it. It's true that there was a tip, including from a financial committee, about these things that reflect, and to us it is clear that these issues differ, but this was our firm conclusion. For the other thing, by advertising a state accountant, it is this way, as we know, that in the bill it is assumed that a government accountant will be elected at the General Assembly, as has been the custom of an agent and that arrangement, we are in effect moving over to the role of a government accountant. This is primarily a challenge to the independence of a State accountant. It is very important that he can function independently of the executive authority. Although the State Accountant is a member of the General Assembly in a certain way, he is certainly not a member of the Generals in that sense. Therefore, there is a fundamental factor in the bill, and one of the major changes from existing legislation is that it is assumed that a government accountant is elected and that makes his independence clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u54	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I don't agree with the approach on narrowing the group like this one's done. By choosing to have a legal accountant, who is nowhere in Western Europe, I think we'll force the group on our small country to a tremendous extent. According to the Agency itself, it is totally unnecessaryly the end of the project and the role far more extensive than simply putting his name on the accounts when it is finished. I don't agree with that. I understand the point of whether it's advertised or not, I just would have thought that we wanted the administration to be more precarious than it is. The Parliament has been criticized for the lack of openness of the management board, but this has been summed up in the form of a special representative, each member of the presiding committee, rather than the publication and publication of it to everyone. Maybe that's the difference first and foremost, I think. About 3 mg. Section 4. It is established that the Council pays one of the A centres for review. The bill shows that there is some small thing, that the cost is about to be won by an accountant for a week. I am asking, though, " Is this how it needs to be when it is assumed that these contributions will be made for Government Review? ' In regard to the comments made by the financiers that we put forward here and expect to be approved, there are a great number that overlaps, at least in the bill, with a bill on public financial matters. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking if a prime committee hasn't considered changing that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u55	A respectable president. I'm not going to dwell on the question of whether a state accountant is supposed to be a legal accountant or not, there's just a different view upstairs and all very healthy about it. Hv. A senator took other steps, including The findings of the Presidency Committee. We also covered the bill, and we beat the notes. On the other hand, they asked for larger things, such as the legal question and how to employ a State accountant and so on. There we held a view that we followed them. There was nothing in the indications that led to a change of heart in these topics. Then there are other factors, such as those related to food. A senator mentioned the cost of reevaluation of the General's budget, a law against government law that is now not legal. Our conclusion was simply that we would not compromise on the larger issues and that we would wisely conclude that a management committee with this issue and a follow - up case could continue to handle that issue, instead of trying a prime committee to work with some double task. We view it as a task that a board of administration and monitoring committees are involved in working out.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u56	A respectable president. I'm just going to review the comments made by a budget committee and partly based on, as indicated earlier, on the comments made by the state accountant and I think it's a reason to roll up. I'm expecting a board of administration and surveillance committees to make their comments. It is interesting to see that despite the lack of the law on government finance, the law has been determined not to try to adapt the bill to that. I don't know if any of the chapters we have will be rewritten, since there are considerable gaps. For one thing, there was a hint on the promise, i.e. State accountant and reviewing state bills. There is, of course, a difference in whether this is just a bill to be named as a law on Government Accounting. The report shows that this is called a national accountant because he is a member of the Generals' Office and is its confidant in review. It's probably being put, like this happened to a whisk. A senator, at a convention similar to the U.S. Councilman, by personalizing this with a state accountant as such. All right, that's a decision made by a management board and a surveillance committee if it's important to her. Since then, we have made comments on financial matters. For example, it is not available to consider whether the Government Accounting should re-evaluate the production of a financial account according to GFS's economic status. As the official financial bill seems to be today, both financial and financial reviews should be made according to that standard. As I came in to the counter office earlier, a financial committee suggested that the job be advertised, not attributed to the job so that the most qualified candidates could apply and the office was available to all who met specific requirements, and the General Assembly would then ensure professional processing of the applications. At Section 3. gave a budget to see if the 2nd paragraph should be changed. Rather than making proposals for reform, planning improved administrative management, or anything he would suggest for reform. It may matter which language we use in this case, as it may be difficult for the National Reunion to submit fully developed suggestions on how the business should be conducted so that the Agency could become part of the Executive Director and put himself in a difficult position when it comes to revising the matter objectively on a second or so on. The suggestion must be made with caution to explain responsibilities. The article suggests that the Agency will create a new plan for the concerned person. It is also discussed in the review of the budget board. For the g- team 1. mgr. 4.g. I'm going to read from the review of the budget board, with the permission of a president: ▪ Regarding this, we note in comments on 4. par.: 0-U-K-T-T-T-T-T-T-T-T-T-T-T-T. it is finally stated that a government accountant's field will also be used to monitor the activities and effectiveness of its members, referred to as administrative audits, such as Article 6. The bill. This point should be considered in particular. It's number four. Count 8. A current law on National Review shows that one of the aims of financial reviews is: In a comment, we're 5. The bill says about the social security numbers: ◯ It is not necessary to specify such a particular feature in the law. It should be noted, however, that such social security numbers are generally not the same as the financial achievements of a private labour market, as well as the coverage of Article 21. The bill.How's it going? A financial committee refers to this core financial bill, which puts great emphasis on measuring government success and considers it important that all institutions set down measurable goals each year to assess the effectiveness and quality of their work. In order to achieve the most successful aims and results, the budgetary committee considers it important that independent experts regularly reduce these standards and measure their quality and the results of the State's activities. ▪ In view of the fact that a relatively small number of projects are covered each year by a financial review, it may be asked, " Do not need to revise the discussion in the comment? ' If standards are not set, in what way would the General want rulers to determine whether the regular activities of the established Kingdom are progressive and effective? For the General Assembly and others, it is more difficult to appreciate the effectiveness of their government institutions and corporations if they themselves do not produce any success measures. I went here to answer the cost of this for the General Assembly, i.e. The review, and I'm not going to go over it again, but I'd like to go over level 7. that deals with the professional work of the State Reconnaissance. She has the opportunity to reexamine the most challenging projects on the basis of bank accounts and observation centres in abundance. If the most complex projects are being carried out by other sources, then perhaps as much knowledge as possible about them would become an environment, such as if the Agency were to take care of the work itself. A financial committee felt that it was missing into the bill a clear set of regulations that would be entrusted with a review or expertise commission provided by the Government Accounting Committees of the Council to provide information that they were asking for free of charge. It is very important that we do not obtain additional expenses and that we are being accepted into the council information despite the fact that the projects are being extended. About 1 0k. To view the accounts of your community and your associates as a trust fund, you need to explain more fully what is involved in the state reexamination. It is like this less reimbursement authority, which, in the opinion of a legal committee, is not sufficient, in view of the fact that we are talking about public funds. At Section 12. Therefore, I am directed by the Commission and the Commission - I am aware that there is a representative who is going to speak after me and it is interesting to know if this is involved because I do not have the Commission and Control Committee on the matter - that it should be thoroughly checked to see if the terms of this article are less than acceptable for the World Council Control Committees, i.e. Whether a state accountant should be obliged to provide a budget and a management committee all the information they requested and if the Senate monitoring committees could do their job, they would not have access to all the financial information on the activities of the state and information prepared by the National Relations expert. Finally, a respectable president, I'm going to go here at 1st. 17th par. which insists that a member of the general accountant should give information to members of the Parliament when requested by the World Committee for the Presidency of the Council. A financial committee believes that it needs to be adjusted so that it is not just a prime committee that can do so. If this is to be the case, what can be done when committees need important expert information that the Agency has so far provided for committees but decided on the basis of its independence to fail to provide? In other words, a public opinion has itself had the right to make decisions as an independent institution of 1 7th above. was. I haven't read the bill again, so I don't know if this has been about a change. It may be helpful to consider the subject when it comes to a committee. About the 19th floor. was a financial committee disagreed that the salary of a state accountant should be determined by the Board of Elders, i.e. that they take into account the reward of a high court judge, and suggested that a state accountant do not have the right to reward. It also points out that the time limit for the salary is not mentioned in the bill. The committee also suggested that 2nd paragraph 2 fall, since it would be a government accountant to execute a replacement if he chose to do so. The Committee also suggested that the 3rd hearings fall down, as the Presidency Committee should not confirm the recruitment of another member of the Kingdom Accounting Committee. Now it may have been changed. As I said, I haven't been able to review it since it was only a little earlier than I assumed. About 20. (b) What will be considered in the next article? The Board of Shepherds asked whether it would be right to be able in the legal text of a publication that the Government Accounts have to be a member of the international organisations of government accountants and other organizations. Secondly, whether a State Accounting should rather be related, not only allowed to introduce internationally approved revision standards. This too is important in view of the government budget. The Commission felt that it would also need to be evaluated in the manner in which Kingdom Accounting introduced these international quality standards of review and other activities of the Agency. Finally, a respectable president, on the 21st floor. Therefore, the budget was directed to the Commission and monitoring committee to carefully investigate what is involved in the failure of the legislation on accountants to employ the National Review Directives. The article will also have to be carefully evaluated as to whether a state accountant does not have to be a legal accountant. A respectable president. It was just the right to review this bill because it's very important. It is a very important organization that matters to the General, and that is why the setting must be in order, in particular the laws being prepared must be taken into account. In view of the fact that I expect a new government law to be approved, I feel that it is unnecessary to remake a bill that needs to be changed considerably. Would it not have been more reasonable to correct it as if it were possible, though, it might also take some change, which I do not expect to become great from here? I'm pretty sure that the ideas of the management and monitoring committee have not been reached because the bill has been submitted almost unchanged. The committee then considers the comments I have been making and came from a financial committee when the case was last presented.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u57	President. I have to make some surprising reminder that this bill should be presented in the same suit that it is, for it is entirely unchanged from the bill submitted to the last year on this very topic, no. 307 last assembly. This is evident in the best way to see that at the beginning of the report, it was previously delivered at the 144th legislature (307th paragraph), which was followed by a series of articles:◯ Good luck opens up, then at the end of the document on page 5. 37 depending on the 23rd paragraph. ... you'llbeclosedtothemoney. So it's completely unchanged from the bill that was moved to the last assembly. Hv. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir mentioned it, then expressed it, I don't think she had the commission and monitoring committee under her hands. I'm not surprised that it was never published. However, a board of administrations and monitoring committees received several reviews. There were reviews from the pro-and-new Ministry, the Department of Reviews, the legal accountant's partner, the budgetary committee, and the State Accounting Committee that made comments. There is, of course, everything in the data of the Committee. Some comments were made, and I am amazed that none of them were taken into consideration. Then there was a discussion on the committee, but the committee's opinion was never completely approved. The 1st. Last year the exact comment was made as good as any. A senator spoke here to the council president in reply earlier, i.e. The question of why this requirement is made that the director of the Government Accounting is a legal accountant. As far as I can remember, the exact same exchange took place between them and between them. A senator and a chief. A president earlier said that it was simply the conclusion of the prime committee that it was right to do this, despite the fact that at that time a committee had been appointed to revise the laws on the State Accounting and the State accountant working here during the last term, and that committee would have made a suggestion that this law was not included. I remember that last year the president of the Senate said that it was just the committee's opinion that it was the right thing to do. Then there is the same answer today: It is the opinion of the prime committee to have it this way. In spite of all the information that came in on the bill, and is available in the U.S. archives of the Commission and Control Committee from the previous year, comments are made on this exact requirement. Everybody makes a note of it. I'm going to allow myself to read from the reviews of the Ministry of procrastination, by permission of presidents: It's the same thing as 2 st. The bill shall be a state accountant with a legislation as an accountant, which means it's on the Ministry Review Registry. Twenty-one. But the bill says that a law on accountants, No. 79/2008, do not include a public accountant or a National Accounting Study. According to law No. 79/2008, of accountants, only those who meet the conditions of the law have the authority to revise and call themselves accountant. If there is no law on accountants, then he must deposit his rights while serving this office, which means he cannot revise and sign up in accordance with the law on accountants during this period. Why is it so important to the presiding committee that this is still so? That's totally incomprehensible to me. All the comments show that it doesn't work out. It is also noted in the review that it does not have to live up to the same standards and rules as do accountants in general. It just doesn't rhyme. It doesn't rhyme me that we here at the Council are passing laws for a state accountant who doesn't deal with what other accountants are supposed to do. I'm not talking about once we've got a law on how a government accountant is allowed to go outside and so forth. I know there's a lot more interest in the accountants. I know that trades and services, they didn't actually turn in the information, but I know only by interviews with people from there that they are very interested in the fact that the state is more private. Then I'm going to shoot it in, a respectable president, that it's not a natural way to out unless it's cheaper. Of course, unless there are others who can do it in a less expensive way, the government may do it. However, it must also require that the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures contain the same conditions for which they live. Surely we must. This is so old-fashioned. It's so old-fashioned to have this government plate, I'm not against it at all, I want to say it, I'm not against it at all, but it's so old-fashioned to be making any other government requirements than anyone else in this case. There is a solid basis for it to be possible to have any competition between the state and the private person if the demands are not the same. It usually works the other way, for example, people might want to expand their education or health care skills or I don't know what. Then, too, we must make sure that our private companies meet our demands. The same is true when we find ourselves in this situation, then the State must also meet the same demands made for private companies. That's all. Well, that's not what I'm thinking. I just don't think that's what I'm talking about. Hv. paritaprevir For example, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir asked that a state accountant was not obliged to deliver the data, whether it was a Senate, a budget or a management committee, that the Agency was not obliged to submit data. This was discussed on the committee. I can fully confirm that there was a difference between opinions in the management and monitoring committee. I believe that, of course, on the National Review to be obliged to provide the council or to mention the evidence, we might conclude that something should be delivered to us, that it should then be a matter of government repercussion. I also think it is of great importance, a respectable president, that the Government Accounting is independent. But sometimes I feel that independence in this regard is a little misunderstanding. Independence means that the Synod or its committee does not have the fingers in the way a Kingdom Ministry Study works a case or what a Kingdom Accounting Study says and how a Kingdom Accounting Study will come to its conclusion. But that doesn't mean that a state reexamination can just say, "No, I'm not going to look at it. It is not to be interpreted as independence, so they simply do not do any of the things they are told - I don't want to use this expression - they don't do what they want or ask for. I think there's something I need to look into. We've been discussing here the last few days of a second bill of putting down a developing research agency. It's exactly like this, the same old bill that was here last year is submitted. A foreign - language committee made many comments on that bill. V.E.G. A minister of state who puts the bill into practice has no regard for it and gives the same bill. The same is true of the Council Presidency Committee. I think it's a very strange procedure, and that's all I'm saying. Consider, too, the independence of the institutions. They're professionals. Developmental research is a professional institution. She's supposed to be what she is. This does not mean that the Ministry over her has no idea how she should work and is able to ask her to do this assignment or to do the other project or so on the streets. It doesn't matter about Government Accounting. Its independence is not that of saying: " No, we're not going to do this. We are not going to follow the council wishes. Why? Because we're independent and you don't tell us what to do. I don't think that's right. A respectable president. I'm running out of time. I thought to be honest, it wouldn't take so long to make this point. The case now goes to the administration and monitoring committee. I'm no longer on that committee, but I will certainly be observing this at 2nd. and to participate in it, because this is, as it happened by the dog. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, a very important bill. It is important that we bring the State Accounting Act on the Agency to modern times, but we're not always in some past and just saying, "Well, we on the President, here at the council are going to have it like this, no matter what experts in these matters say. No matter what a new accounting law says. No matter what rules we have to record because we're in the EEA and there's a law on accountants. Still, we're just gonna have it this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u58	A respectable president. I recommend a synopsis on national planning policy 2015-226. The proposal is presented in accordance with organizational requirements, No. 123/2010, but with that law the first time was set here on the land of national planning policies. Environmental and resource minister should be proposed for 12 years. The main purpose of the policy is to establish a coordinated policy using a comprehensive view of land use based on government policy in various areas. In turn, rural areas have access to a single site of the government's policy. It is then aimed at integrating government policies on transport, social, nature protection, energy efficiency and other land use issues. There is always a national planning policy on the central areas of Iceland. Governments are expected to function in accordance with policy. This includes taking into account the design and adjustment of plans and the implementation of national planning policies within four years of its approval when appropriate. The Agency began work on national planning policy in 2013 at the request of the Environment and Resource Minister. At the same time, a government advisory committee and the European Union were appointed for national planning policies, as well as the Organization and Minister, for counseling and consultation with the work. proposals for national planning were developed in active collaboration with local societies and their organisations, public institutions and organisations. There was also a special meeting point for the development of policies, which included representatives from rural areas and their organisations, public institutions, companies in the construction and management of infrastructure and sectoral organisations, and nature and protection. Suggested national planning was advertised by the Organization and officially introduced, as well as its release to 180 parties. An organization made comments on the suggestion from 73 sources with helpful and practical indications that show a keen interest in this work. The Environment and Resource Minister proposed a national planning policy along with the documents and a paper on the disposition of March 12 last afternoon after the introduction time. Suggestion for action on national policy was then proposed to the last legislature but failed to succeed before the end of the council. So the proposal is presented here for the second time materially unchanged, but with some adjustments in the comments to the proposal for changing electricity law and following the results of a team of workers on a joint inspection of the state, Reykjavík, and Icelanders Group at the airports in the capital area. This proposal for national planning includes four main policies, i.e. In Iceland's central highland policy, rural planning, housing patterns, distribution and marine and coastal policy. The policy is based on the design that all its subjects are put to the foundation of a guide. The guide is that organized and land use contributes to sustainable development, the organization is flexible to social and environmental changes and to the quality of life of people and also support the competitiveness of the whole country and the individual parts of the country. Under each of the initiatives, a higher objective is set out, and then goals that involve individual components, such as building, protecting, energy, or transport. It is suggested that the target be followed by certain measures or means. This is a recommendation and action directed to the rural community in the construction of organizational plans and on the other hand, various tasks directed to other governments. I'm now going to make an account of the four policies of national planning. First, there is a planning policy in the middle of the country that is designed to replace the regional structure of central Iceland in 2015 and take up the same region. The policy stresses the maintenance of the main policy of the current regional organization, as well as the experience in its implementation. In addition, the available land use programmes, such as a national protection and energy use programme, a system plan, transport plan and a nature protection programme, were taken into account. The chief objective of planning policies in the central area is that there will be a guards of the nature and landscapes of the central area because of the nature and importance of the environment outside and that infrastructure in the central highlands will take into account its special status. The proposal suggests a number of ways or measures to support the implementation of planning policies in the middle of the country. It is important that the transport and planning authorities work on further analysis of transport costs and development options. A suggestion that land planning is therefore expected to include rural areas of the central highlands for a highway policy in a major organization in cooperation with the Vega. There is a lack of complete perspective on existing facilities and services in the central highlands. It is therefore suggested that the Agency cooperates with Iceland's National Registry and with rural communities whose country belongs to the highlands have a presupervising of workers and services in the highlands. In the context of this proposal, it will be noted that in the course of this procedure, the area of the highlands policy will continue to be followed by the main focus of the development of tourism in peripheral areas and in designated areas near the top of the highlands. Thus, four categories of travel services will continue to be defined, i.e. Front centres, highland centers, lodges, and mountain halls. In addition, there is an effort to clarify the nature of the building and service within each category. In this proposal, the main ideas of the central highland sector are to be employed to maintain the vast top of the highlands. It is therefore suggested that the Agency as well as the EEA be precluding regular updates on a map of size and development across the central area. As a result of increasing tourism to the country, it is very important to have an assessment of the construction of tourism workers in the highlands. It is therefore suggested that the Agency cooperates with the European Commission, the European Union of rural society and rural areas of the highlands gather information on the need for altered emphasis on human activities. In recent years there have been considerable changes in rural land use as well as changes in agriculture. Increased emphasis is on forestry and agriculture, along with increased knowledge and warm weather. This has resulted in increased rural development of tourism in general. Thus, it is clear that in the coming years, there are challenges regarding rural planning, such as agriculture, nature protection, land healing, forestry, and tourism. In a rural policy, planning is expected to allow for the diversity of land use, such as for farming and tourism, and a natural and terrestrial outkeep. Further goals are being developed under the provision of rural, environmental and cultural development, sustainable agricultural use, natural and environmental transport, energy generation, and the safe delivery of electrical energy sources into agreement with nature and environment, sustainable transport, safe communication and organization with respect to natural and climate change. In order to implement agrienvironmental policy in rural areas, some are suggested to provide environmental and resource services for the guidance of agrienvironment schemes to use in planning and other land use policies. There is a great need for such guidance in view of the evidence that agricultural production will increase in the future, including agrienvironment schemes. in view of the increased tourism current to the country. It is predictable that increasing demand will depend on building windmills in rural areas. The use of wind power is a new subject in the organizational affairs of the region, requiring knowledge and information sharing on organizational approaches and environmental impacts. Therefore, the proposal suggests that the Organization represents education and exchange information on the organization of wind efficiency in cooperation with relevant institutions. A third main policy of national planning is a policy on habitat patterns and distribution of habitats, which includes the regional environment, particularly urban and its interaction with nearby work and services. This is a policy on the whole of the country's habitats and on the other hand, on the internal structure of urban areas and the quality of the environment. The chief aim of the policy is to develop urban and implements based on sustainable development, with focus on environmental quality and the targeted and integrated and transport systems. Further policy measures are being developed under a broad range of integrated patterns and balances in rural development, sustainable urban development, environment-based quality, competitive communities and sectoral life, sustainable transport and secure communications with the environment. Clearly, by fostering the growth and maintenance of the core core in each part of the country, a stronger foundation is laid for the wide range of services and employment in each region, providing the modern quality of life that we demand. Among the projects proposed here, it is assumed that the development of rural organisations and the implementation of national parishes will be defined as core cores in each part of the country and their operating area. The Agency is also expected to perform a joint analysis of the workaments and services of the largest urban ports and scoring of active urban areas in cooperation with the Office, Internal Affairs, the Vega, the Union of Iceland, and the Community Association in the capital area. The fourth and final national policy measures take place in marine and coastal planning. This is a new subject on the land. A map has a complete perspective on marine and coastal activities on the land and has therefore been called on a complete organization for them. The implementation of marine and coastal systems here is accompanied by similar trends in the countries around us, but countries have been implementing such planning over the past few years to promote sustainable use and address the interests of marine and coastal policies. The extent and diversity of work in Iceland's seas and coastal areas has increased in recent years. Apart from traditional activities, such as fishing, transport, chemical contact, shipping, spills, and sea cables, other functions have gone to bed, such as fish farming, shelling, travel - related activities, and energy research. There is limited perspective on marine and coastal activities in the country and its scope, but the primary analysis of marine and coastal wastes was implemented at a Organic Organization in 2012. A complete collection of information on marine and coastal activities and areas, which have been protected or used in some way, is one of the foundations of the planning in marine and coastal areas and will support the sustainable use of their resources. Further policy measures on marine and coastal planning will then be needed in order to address the overall use and protection of such areas as fish, marine waters, energy generation, marine environments, chemical input and the protection of vulnerable areas. In 2014, Environment and Resource Minister appointed a team to develop a legislation on marine and coastal systems. The group is designed to shape the framework of marine and coastal administrations, the main operating tool for the structure and geographicisation of the marine and coastal systems. It is determined that the Marine and Coastal Organization bill will be submitted at the spring Summit of 2015. The current design of marine and coastal areas takes into account that the design of marine and coastal areas is still being developed. A respectable president. I've traced the main point of this proposal for Congress. I suggest that the proposal be followed by the 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u59	President. Thank you very much. Minister of the story to wish a new president luck with his office. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of a few questions at this point. Now it's served again, and as far as I can tell. Minister, the motion remains unchanged. I'd like to ask about some comments that came from the progress of the case. Environmental and transport committees, especially regarding comments on interaction with other legislation and other regulations. Chapter 1.2 discusses road transport. It speaks of Iceland's soil readings providing access to a map source on the approved roads and highways outside the classification system of roads. As far as I know, that view of road trail mapping is in the bill at the highest level. Minister, I hope you'll speak soon. I am especially glad that the Vegas have that assignment. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if I'm right about the loss of these two texts because it's still the older vision. On the other hand, I would like to ask in general the question about the policy on the central road system where it is concerned that nature protection laws are not mentioned. Finally, I'd like to ask the highest. A minister of the fact that this is a big consult, but it has not been specifically consulted with the environmental subterranean movements, I am specifically talking about Land Protection and the National Protection Agency of Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u60	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the inquiry. I'm sorry if we've been lying to sync here, but my mind was in order to make the first history of nature's protection so that it was the beginning. We'll take a look at this on the road. It is true that the senator said that we are directing it to the road model that all URLs are placed in their websites. I'm aware that in preparation one of the many people sought to be a nature protection organization at the beginning of this work. The senator may be aware of something other than the one mentioned here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u61	President. I just refer to the reviews that were received from earlier treatments, so there are no personal information I received in any way, but what is stated in the review of national protection that we have received, by permission of the President: ▪ On page 8. 13 In a paper with the Parliamentary Syllabics proposal, we find an overview of consultation with national planning policies. It states that during the shape of a proposal, individual agencies and departments were consulted... It says: It would have been reasonable to call environmental groups into consultation with them. Special attention should be given to association groups that are not stakeholders in the sense that e.g. energy companies or tourism companies responsible for interest are I'd like to ask the highest. Minister, because this is the case, whether there is any special reason why it is not chosen to follow this kindly counsel from Land Protection. There would have been a minister and a ministry minister in the palm of the hand who'd be exposed to those comments from the Land Protector. Then I want to ask the highest. Agricultural classification minister for section 2.3.2. The text shows that the Environment and Resource Ministry is in cooperation with the Organization, the European Union of Iceland, Landing, Farming, and the National Institutes for Agrienvironmental Coalification and other policies on land use. It's a review of the key office at the highest level. A special comment is made by a minister of Iceland's Natural Science Institute that is not here referred to as the two agencies of the Ministry, which oversee peaceful zones, i.e. The EEA, and, on the other hand, the Natural Science Institute for the Ecosystems of the country and the Organic Relations of nature, defined as the work of this key organisation and is on the table of Minister. I'd like to ask the Minister if there's any particular reason why this observation by the Institute of Natural Science has not been taken into account in the restructuring of the case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u62	A respectable president. As I had within my previous reply, I know that we have followed an open course of consultation when this proposal was being made. I noticed that the case had been sent to one 180 persons. I think it's more on the side than on the other side of legislature. There is no deeper reason why a natural institution is not referred to as a factor 2.2.2. This is an agrienvironmental classification, and it says that in collaboration with the National Organization, the European Union, the Land Service, the State's wooding and the Farming Agency will provide guidelines on the development of agrienvironment schemes. It's always nice to get tips and to listen to people. At any rate, I've generally been guided by it in my life, so it's not only possible to contact the Ministry's ideal Office, the Institute of Natural Science. But I don't see anything unusual about the way this article is presented. It is the main organisational organisation and have opinions on agriculture.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u63	A respectable president. We'll talk about this now for the second time. It was suggested to the last winter, last session, and unfortunately, we didn't finish it by then, but much went on. I'd like to say at the beginning that we've been waiting for this for a long time, and the main purpose of the proposal is as stated in Article 10. Organizational legislation to establish a coordinated land use policy based on state policy. Of course, it is important for your community to have access to some real thing, and to have a real vision of the official or State like this, and there are a lot of good things here. However, I would like to begin at least some of the factors that I would like to mention specifically before discussing the matter with the committee in general about the treatment of such a policy and the treatment of the synonyms. I'm afraid we've noticed that we're here to agree with Congress laws, such as e.g. A frame plan, which is not followed by humans, is not in sufficient order. They seem to follow them, depending on where their interest is at any given time. I feel that this is a very difficult situation for the executives to make. I can give an example and go to an old discussion, or not old, it is now creaking fresh from the last council, on a frame plan, and on how men associate with the Guardian Party. Since these matters do not seem to be of particular interest to the government, the Guardian Party is only ignored, while men are ready to enter the council and take a stroke in regard to the colony party. We need to agree that our course is fully followed, that we know it. Otherwise, our time here is not well spent. Another example I can give is the European Union decision and I'm not going to open it here, which is still another synopsis that has been approved at the council and that has been completely avoided and really working against. We need to be assured, then, that the minister is going to follow through on this with full weight because otherwise the tool will be let down right away. It is important that once we have agreed to this first national planning policy, people will follow through so that from the beginning, we will show it that we are fully serious about it, not just beautiful words on paper. But okay. I'd like to go over a few things. One thing I would like to say first. I've had a bit of fun observing the discussion around the organization at Reykjavík City. You have felt that the smaller part there criticized the city government in Reykjavík a little bit, under the pretext that these are all more and less of some bicycle hippies who want to make such changes in the urban organization that there is nothing but an entry to the private car. You all know this conversation. Therefore, I find it extremely helpful to see in this national planning program that there is a direct support to the policies that have taken place in the city of Reykjavík. On page 18. 8 In the Senate resolution proposal, a sustainable urban organization is covered. It discusses organization and suggests that the State's policy should be developed to promote sustainable development of urban settlements with densely continuous settlements, reorganization of new areas, and development of closer society. This also depends on the proposals, which highlight the aims of a sustainable urban organization that is focused on mixing employment and linking it to urban areas, shortening distances from everyday activities, thus reducing the expense of society through infrastructure, such as holes and host systems. Public transportation and other travel options should also be established. I have to say it just as it is, it must be a joy to see the support of these policies in a national planning policy adopted here at the General Assembly. We hope, then, that we will be able to get this discussion to some odd level, since it has not been in order, and this is the way ahead of urban development, the development of urban areas in the future. This is what I think we who live in urban areas are calling for, i.e. We spend less time in the car and more time with our closest friends. It's the requirement. Then we must integrate that thinking into all organization as we organize people's immediate surroundings. I hope that the approved course of this course is a step toward the general thinking, not controversial, as it has been. It was likely merely controversial because its critics felt that it was not the right political party to present it. That may be more of a reason. But I appreciate it, and it's good that we get together on this. I also welcome what is being discussed in marine and coastal planning. It is for island countries like us who have as much economic history as they do today as it has long since come to pass. Of course, it takes time to develop a policy like this, and I look forward to dealing with it. The minister has been giving a special bill on these matters later in the winter, so we will discuss them in the overall context and on even greater issues. I look forward to carrying out that assignment because you have heard about it for a considerable time. West University has been working with it, and I first heard of it myself there, probably ten years ago. So the educational community has taken this matter and done it well, and hopefully it will produce a little good and massical bill in the winter so that we can move forward. What's going on is that they're looking at organized marine areas and coastal areas in a new and more complete way, not in the pieces we've seen up to here without me having time to go to it. But I look forward to handling that assignment in the winter and see the minister's case when it comes to it, and I want to thank her for how well she has conducted it and then press it so that we will see it ready at this assembly. Finally, I'd like to mention one thing that I think is of great importance in this matter, and that is the community organization. In this conference resolution on national planning policies, an organization in the central areas of Iceland says in chapter 1 that the environment and landscapes of the central highlands need to be considered for nature protection and for the importance of outdoors and the construction of infrastructure on the central highlands. This will be considered in detailed detail. We in the United States have concluded that in the last winter we will be going further than this point by simply taking the steps all the way and deciding to set up a national park on the central highlands because national parks can ensure the preservation of the great nature of the Mediterranean and make sure that this remarkable natural source will become a sustainable source of employment, money, and experience for all, except for its protection. We feel that this should be done in a much more powerful way by taking the steps all the way, declaring that there will be a national park in the middle of the country. There's a lot of support in this community, I think most of us have come to believe that there should be another law in the middle of the country, and it's time to take the step of simply forming a national park in the middle of the country. We in the United States have made a resolution on the matter that has come into the council and will hopefully be recommended soon and I sincerely hope that a minister would be willing to take a good look at it and see if it doesn't feel as though it's time we should simply take the step of starting a peace-telling process that follows the park's establishment and take a step further than in this proposal. We agree on our goals, and setting up a national park is far more effective in ensuring the goals set out in national policy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u64	A respectable president. We're here, as mentioned earlier, to propose a resolution to the National Organizational Policy on 2015-226, but this case is presented here a second time. It was shown in my answers at the highest. Minister I think it's a poem of the Ministers and/or Ministry not to have taken into account the comments that are highly objective and almost free of doubt, such as to form those of Iceland's Natural Institute for Agriculture, but Iceland's Natural Institute directly deals with ecosystems. This is what is discussed in the section on agricultural planning and is both grammatic and normal. I would have benefited if the Ministry had made it up to at least one more suggestion. in accordance with the observed observations. I welcome basically in the way things are going. I believe it is of utmost importance, and it is based on existing planning laws set up in the last term after ministers of several classes had made a difficult attempt to recommend new organizational laws without having any business to do. At last, the broad, transnational agreement on legislation was made that it lent to put here a new organizational law, but even more so, to achieve a step in creating a natural law base or a law frame around national policy, which was primarily a project that had to be done with the communities. That was a bad case because, as it were, I had been vice president of the Union of Iceland and had had had serious doubts about national affairs and had to be placed in the seat of the Ministerial Minister and, as it were, to lead this entire conflict into the earth. I hope it did well, though we're still thinking about how well the tool will react since when we get it through the council, because the policy that such a policy is, in fact, at best, the government's declaration of how we want to see an organization developing in land and in coastal areas, is perhaps less about what happens if rural communities choose to go in other directions. This policy is not set up on the heads of the rural communities, and the development of rural society is very clear in the law anyway. That is why it is a long way of speaking to the highest degree. The minister here was well aware of the very important thing, i.e. That we'll see the end of that discussion and I'd like to see that course cleared from the Council. If we take this matter further into consideration, I would like to discuss, first of all, a project that we need to consider on the committee. There are phrases and phrases, i.e. This will be considered in a section dealing with the sustainable development of urban and planning in terms of natural climate change and environmental change. These chapters are virtually the same under different surfaces that need to be coordinated, and then, in the second chapter, the discussion of the change in the marine level is followed by a change in climate change not considered, considering the effects of natural climate change in other chapters. But this is more of a hand job and work. I'd like to agree with what happened next. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir about a more populated area and about the interiors, adding only the speculations presented in a sermon. A senator, i.e. the importance of what you seem to be growing in general during the discussion, the understanding that the infrastructure is dense, i.e. that we don't have any infrastructure for road repairs, parking lots, repairs, infrastructures, etc. Of all the heathen, and then of the very dwelling of the people, because these inwards are given out of the common treasure. Therefore, it is important for society as a whole to make good use of investments in densely populated areas. Happily, I feel that there is more discussion in general during the urban planning discussion. This is especially true of me, and it is in good harmony with both the major organization of Reykjavíkurburg, as well as the regional structure of the capital area, which is very well - versed and in the same spirit here in the most populous region of the country. The reviews of the case at its earlier stage or when it was presented here last year are very clear, both from Iceland's Natural Institute of Protection, as well as from the National Protection, that the text has to be spoken of with much force as regards the community's organization and its protection. I think that's our biggest project right now. In fact, I think that the debate that has been left in the community on the importance of drawing a line of defense across the openness needs to be reflected in the General Study. I want to make it perfectly clear that when I personally made a pact proposal for the 2013 national planning policy, it was also not a very clear statement regarding the protection of the central highlands. However, it is simply a matter of time working with the larger countries, and time is working with the central highlands. I have growing doubts that to form a land use and protection framework, there should be a head discussion of areas that fall within the central highland line because we have just reached the point where this area is to be kept above doubt and that it should be protected from all projects, both energy infrastructure, cooled road structure, and electric lines. I've felt that discussion was growing all over the world. National Protection knows that. She called for the public's answers all over society, and I hear voices from both government groups -- I hear voices, that didn't sound good! - i.e. The forwarding party and the Independence Party, that they think they're becoming urgent. We hear that the tourism service is talking about an unnoring wide, perhaps the most important resource for our tourism, so it has become a resource that we have to protect, just as the fish resources or the energy resources. I think it is simple that a modern - day national planning policy reflecting the community debate should take a very deep place in the year and that it would not be sufficient to say, as indicated in chapter 1.1.1 of the Minister's proposal to the council, that the construction and traffic of the highlands would be impaired, and that of the other characteristics and nature of the highlands were remembered. This is not enough if we are going to update it to modern times. We're the ones sitting in bed. The Environment and Transport Committee has this task in hand and also new nature protection laws. Of course, it plays everything. Like I only came to answer the highest. Ministers need to synchronize text, and we need to reconcile what is spoken of here and what is spoken of in new nature protection laws by means of the highest bill. Let's hope a minister proposes within the next few days, so these texts talk together, so we've updated it all. Finally, I want to say in general about this matter that I believe there is a great improvement. I find the text of an organization in marine and coastal areas - and, yes, that's one thing being proclaimed at the highest level. A minister who is a lawgiver on that organization, and so do we, as it were, need to be talked. But I think it's all for the greater good. The section on farming and distribution is basically a significant contribution and organization to rural areas. However, we need to take first place in ensuring the protection of the central highlands in accordance with future Senate guidelines and social discussions and a general increased understanding of the importance of that matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u65	A respectable president. I would like to thank you for a fine discussion, even though not many have spoken up and are going to step up the second talk first because of the way it ended. It is true that the Senator said that I will present a bill here and what may be characteristic of the basics that come from the Environment and Resource Ministry of this Council is out of control of organization, trying to provide specific tools. The inside bill will appear in the next few days and I think it is extremely important to protect our country's natural and cultural resources to map it. As a matter of fact, at the spring council, we will provide a bill for the marine and coastal areas. There may also be present times and other developments in recent years that have been taking place in the areas that further require that this law be established. But first and foremost, the overall policy is with the national planning policy we deal with here and then we'll narrow it down, and one of the points as we have seen today are just the sea and coast zones. Then we'll be working it even more, that's an enormously important tool. We here sometimes talk about setting laws that we call tools on certain matters. We often work very hard at how these tools of ours are going to work, which is quite special, but I'm not going to go very far into it, but it's called here, and there I come to talk. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir. To me, the frame is framed, and I've said many times, an important tool created at the Council, guided by trying to find some balance between these two categories, to use our resource, and then to protect it so that we would not be so furiously involved in it. Somehow it seems to me that it is very difficult to change the lines of conflict, even though we have tried to build a particular tool there. The land continues to evolve, so even land use is changing. This new industry, our tourism, has a natural impact on land and nation, especially on how we want to care for the nature of our country. It was mentioned in organizational matters, and thanks to that, my city representative heart always rejoices in the pursuit of organizational matters in Reykjavík. Organizational affairs are very exciting, and especially to shape the future of the capital, I still feel it. I just want to say that the person who may have had the most impact some 100 years ago on the building work, Guðmundur Hannesson, published a book for the next 100 years. Among other things, he arranged for the House of Things, which is probably one of the most densely populated parts of Reykjavík, but he wanted it to be inhabited so that humans could enjoy the garden and the sun. We may have been able to pick it up a little, but it doesn't have to build up in the air just to seal up the ground. It is also possible to build something, as the House was organized. Keeping it up, I remember that at that time, too, there was a bit of speculation in the city as to whether or not to try to build mixed up, and it seems to me that there's something going on in that direction, at least for visitors to have an apartment on the upper floor above shopping malls or shopping halls. Now, about the short distance, I'm so excited that I want to encourage the fine senators who have spoken here, who are on the line of helping me in that we can get a Dizziness Way. I think it's extremely important to cut distances between parts of the city. I don't think I have to say much more here, but thank you again for the discussion. The members of the United States who have spoken here have spoken a few words about unnoring areas, and they want to make a national park in the whole of the central highlands. I'm sure there's all things to think about, and I'm ready because I was challenged to do so. But somehow it is that they do not want to have in the inhabited earth or in uninhabited electric lines or heavy roads or some great act. But I can't say that I think it's better if you can place them in the edge of a highland, where you can hide such a fortress. So I think it's going to be all going to be done. You can't get all stringed up in one way or another about where it's best. That's what I'd like to have my last words.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u66	A respectable president. I recommend a proposal for a resolution of the Code of Morality for the Generals. The proposal is made by the presidents of the Generals and members of the Parliament. The proposal is a milestone in which this is the first time that the Commonwealth agents at the Council formally propose a proposal to set standards for themselves. I call attention to the fact that I use the word "election " here, which highlights the central theme of the Code that members of the council are elected to the General Assembly to work for the interests of the common people. By the changes made at the council in 2011, which is found at 88 st. Parliamentary law, agreed by the Council of the Council that a prime committee should prepare the sentence of ethical principles for the members of the council. As a result, the preparations of moral principles began. Shortly before the 2013 Parliament ended, there was a set of protocols that were sent to the council for review, but they did not receive a formal response. Despite the work done back then, it was evident that there would be no agreement between the councils to take care of the case. It was at the summer session of the Presidency Committee in August 2013 that it was decided to consider the European Parliament's Code of Morality to see if an agreement could be reached to hold the rules, to allow the changinger, as a rule of the Parliament at the General Assembly. At first, this route was simple and reasonable, but almost all of the European Parliament is involved in the Council of Europe. On the other hand, the European Parliament's code is set up for international conventions, where representatives of the Council of Europe will take their place according to the decision of the National Assembly of the European Council. The members of the Council of Europe thus do not accept their commission to voters in democratic elections, as is the case with members of the General Assembly and representatives of other councils. The structure and structure of the European Parliament are also not comparable to the General Assembly. This also applies to the activities of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Generals, to take into account the work of the European Parliament's Council members in other countries, but the unique regulations of the European Parliament's ethics take such into account. However, in the European Parliament's code, there is a description of specific principles on the conduct of members of Congress and practices that are fundamentally based on the standards for the conduct of a representative of state at the General Assembly. However, this is not to say that for the Generals, there are no rules or standards for conduct and conduct as a political representative. In this way, the general council members make a solemn vow to the Constitution, cr. Forty-seven. It's hers and it says 48th. The Constitution is solely bound by its convictions and not by the instructions of its voters. Furthermore, it leads to the 50th grade. The Constitution that members of Congress must carry out their duties in a way that does not lead to failure. In addition to this, the terms of Congress include the directives for the actions of members of Congress, corrosion. 4 mg. 78th par. that no senator may vote to himself and to any point that falls under the discipline of the President of Allallis. 1.mg. Section 8. Congress. In addition to these rules, the Council of Parliaments and Parliamentary Costs and General penalties require that members show up in their jobs and outside their jobs. However, while the guidelines presented here for approval are based on the European Parliament's Code of Morality, they support the above legal rights as well as the generally undecided standards that will be set up for the well - maligned appointment of senators and their conduct as representatives of state. Are the rules of ethics here suggested to be accepted as well as the above replete rights for filling, cr. Section 3. The rules. This is a very important law that, of course, this code is not something that we are introducing today and that has not been found to any extent in unscheduled regulations or laws. This is primarily to be fulfilled according to a requirement and underlined in Article 3. The Parliament's smell. What is the purpose of this code? Can it not be said that when the law leads to the establishment of the law, there is a standard for the well - maligned senator's work? Need something more, someone might ask. It is important that we ask these questions, so with them we look for the content or core of the work involved in taking the place at the Council as the National Committee. Therefore, it is not necessarily necessary for a senator to have a written code of ethics. Such rules, however, may provide guidance. The point I'm going to mention now is in my opinion. These rules can therefore provide guidance and strength for members of the Parliament when they face difficult situations themselves. I'd like to make a decision in this relationship that with the suggestion that the Code presented here is that each member of the council will agree to follow the rules, and they will end up being directed to themselves. The purpose is, as stated in Article 1. Theirs, to promote ethicism and their duty as well as their confidence in the confidence of the public at the Council. I'm going to take a brief look at the design of the rules and their materials. First of all, it's 1st. Section 5. The rules included in seven letters the principles that shall be followed by members of the council, which shall be met by the members of the council. The principles include the standards, or guide, for members of the council that they can draw support at such times. The essence of moral principles can be said to be expressed there. By permission of the highest power. The following principles are given to the president: The members of the Council shall serve as members of the Commonwealth: a. Fulfill your work of responsibility, of integrity, of honesty, b. make decisions in the public service without being bound by instructions that may be opposed to the rules of ethics, c. Neither to the council, nor to mar the image by his manner, d. use a responsible position for their jobs, e. not to use their official status for personal benefit to yourself or others, b Includes all relevant interests and their public activity and problems that may be guided by public interest, g. support and support the principles of these by taking the initiative and example. Seven- and-and-a-half-four. par. The moral principles are then set out in more detail on the conduct, duties of members of Congress in isolated cases, and in 15,◯16. par. will be discussed in the implementation of ethical principles. It is assumed that a special ethical committee appointed by the Presidency Committee will address the public with regard to the alleged violations of the protocol. The committee is also a prime committee to advise on all issues that depend on the rules and circumstances that may arise during their implementation. On this basis, the Commission's orders reflect the best knowledge of the principles and laws of the administration and practices of the General Assembly. 16th degree. is also a further provision for the management of individual cases on the conditions for writing and signing of the subject, as well as the right of a senator to make comments and explanations. In between 17 and 18. it is finally a provision for the appointment of the Committee of Protocols on individual matters and the discussion of them by the Presidency Committee. The proposed package contains more detailed guidelines on handling due to alleged violations of the ethical code for the general council. I'd like to finally mention that important point in the final paragraph of Article 5. The Code, which assumes that at the beginning of the Council of Parliament, members of Parliament receive a special presentation on the ethical order and that it was given to the President of the Council make a statement in which they commit themselves to be accepted, but it is certain that the general council members are always reminded of the value of the Code and are known as their presence. I propose, chief. President, to sue for the administration and monitoring committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u67	A respectable president. I thank the chairman of the council for the presentation of this case, a proposal for interpretation. I can't afford to sit there and report my differing views on ethics. I've always been aghast when agencies or businesses set up a code of ethics, and I think that's usually a given cause, i.e. that someone did something wrong, got into trouble, so they had to set ethical standards because things themselves were not respected. In this proposal for Congress, there is in itself nothing that really bothers me. It's obvious, as indicated in 10th. ..................... that Congress officials should not accept bribes for their work or accept bribes in general. It is also obvious that the members of Congress are to be, we can say independent in their jobs, i.e. neither is it dependent on its wealth, debt, property, or even dependence, so you just deal with addictions, addictions, that you are about sober. This is about the subject in this code, so I can accept these rules. But I think it's right to remind members of the Parliament that there are rules of ethics in law. For example, part-friendly legislation is against code rules, i.e. Members of those who associate with a partner in a particular business called a community. Also, the legislation that I know fairly well, the stock exchange laws, it's a code of ethics. The financial law is based almost on ethics. And the rule of the Sermon on the Mount, commonly known as the Golden Rule, is: "All things, therefore, that you want men to do to you, you also must do to them. If it's the right thing to remember, it's always changing the translation, so it may well be that I'm wrong. But this is what I believe the code of ethics is going on, and the members of Congress should keep in mind. But there are things put in the wrong order because in some sort of morality that ran into the council, you first thought about setting rules on interest logs, which I think should follow the rules of ethics. It has sometimes disturbed me, the great demands of property registration in the real estate record, but there are no demands for registration a debt. I believe that the man who is in debt, like the devil of the press, is far more dependent and more dangerous than the one who is boss of his money. I'm just going to use this opportunity once and for all, if this is going to happen in a Senate hall, to promote my opinion. I wanted to say something else, which may now be closely related to the bribe, i.e. CYP3A4 and CYP3A4 Once again, I refer to the law of the stock trade, which refers to inside information, that members of the council are naturally bound by it, I consider all of this for granted. The fact that I come up here in the small hall is not due to my opposition. Rather, I'd like to say that I just think it's damn hard to take the time to do it, that it needs to be, let's say, dress for free rules that should be obvious to everyone and men to act on it. This may well be viewed in the light of history. Please refer to the General Assembly since June 2011. In 2011, however, it is soon after 2008. It was then a moral code that was to be set up, but it was almost without exception because people had done something wrong. That's what I'm worried about. Is this a matter of conscience, or is it made whole - souled? I'm not going to go further on my case until now, but I hope that the entire body of Congress shows itself moral. A respectable president. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u68	A respectable president. I hereby recommend the resolution of our council members of the United States and the left movement of ◯ green supply, the bright future, and the Pirata, all over 20 members of Congress, but I think the 1st of the case has a problem. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingadóttir, who, unfortunately, cannot be with us today to get the case out of the way because of illness. So she asked me to speak in her absence so that she would not remember in any way to delay the progress of the case. Of course, I think that it is what the move is primarily in common, and the aim of the proposal is to call for that we do not beg to make major decisions about our responsibilities and responsibilities in the company of refugees in these unprecedented times. V.E.G. This morning the Minister of the Interior Minister said that it may not be right to call this refugee problem. Rather, it would be closer to talking about national migration in view of the vast number of refugees in Europe and, indeed, worldwide. This suggests that we will immediately decide that this will be an invitation for the next 200 to next year and 200 years for the United Nations Refugee Fund, 500 in the next three years, 100 already this year, and then the call will be extended for the next 200 and for the following year, as our share in coping with this challenge. Of course, it is only part of the action we need to take, but it is in rather good harmony with what other nations decide around us. This morning the European Parliament decided to take over 120,000 people. Norwegians have decided to accept 8,000 others in addition to what they had already decided, and here many nations have made major decisions to do their part. Of course, 500 people are not going to ride the enormous problems we face, and no doubt there are various numbers, both higher and lower on what is to be received, but I think that there is something undisputed, at least of those who deal with these cases, that we should be able to welcome hundreds of refugees. When we know that, there is nothing in itself to wait for. There are no more committees or meetings to be held. We can simply decide to accept hundreds of refugees and respond now, for these are absolutely unprecedented circumstances. Last year, the number of refugees involved in the United Nations Refugee Fund increased from over 40 million to 50 million - in one year. The number of refugees increased by 13 million in 12 months, more than 1 million in every month for the past year, more people every day than in the second - largest towns of the country, towns like Akureyri, Hafnarfjög, or Kópavogur, their homes, and were in spancy every day, so the problem is huge, he is urgent, and he is now. It is high in the population of Iceland, the whole country, that is running across the Mediterranean each year. Therefore, in cooperation with the refugee help - which, of course, has extensive experience with these initiatives in cooperation with national organisations with those who have knowledge to accept refugees in cooperation with other good parties - these are, of course, not only a short - term plan like this but also a program that will be implemented in the council and values since 2018 and after that, making sure that we take refugees according to our number and economic strength. That work at the same time. In addition to the welcome of these hosts, we focus on paying for the family harmony of the Syrians already here by increasing considerable authority to promote family unity and allow their relatives to come here and also that in this work all must be maintained the emphasis Iceland has had on working with refugees. We make it a point to consider special groups that need special attention, e.g. the groups of women with their feet, such as single mothers, queer people, and other groups that in their lands or parts of the world may have a problem as a result of prejudice or lack of human rights beyond what it already means to be refugees. We have repeatedly discussed refugees'affairs here, both in spring and in this fall. I believe there is a great harmony in all political parties here at the Council that action must be taken. We are glad that the government announces that she plans to make some decisions tomorrow. We hope that this proposal was part of the pressures that were important to discover that human solutions are already being made. I expect the suggestions to be found in the spirit of this synopsis in the expected extent, 500 refugees immediately, and then a longer - term plan on how we will take our part in these matters. Perhaps the synopsis proposal will be unnecessary after tomorrow's government meeting, but until then there is good reason for the case here today, but then immediately the committee will be joined by committees and the committee is not being ambiguous on this project, but the wind will not be able to get visitors to the case and will immediately take it back into this chamber to complete the decision of the matter. For us in this room there's nothing to wait for, but for the refugees there's much to wait for.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u69	A respectable president. We are here discussing a very important issue of 22 members of the administrative body, jointly in charge. paritaprevir The Sigríður of Ingadóttir. The problem we face is of utmost importance, and we have been talking about in the past days, weeks, and losses. The matter is that I believe that through the council, very rapid treatment is needed. The matter arose during the last assembly, but the decision was made to make now, so it is not new, as it became clear a while ago about what was coming. We are looking at unprecedented and frightening conditions today in the affairs of refugees that we all know well. In fact, I think the discussion took a considerable turn in the case of the Minister of Internal Affairs this morning when it correctly stated that we no longer speak of some traditional refugee problem, we are talking about mobilization. This is an urgent problem when people now rush into despair across the Mediterranean Sea and into Europe because circumstances at home are completely unbearable. I have to say, just as it is, I have been upset by the fact that Iceland's spokesmen during the past few days were mainly irritating whether and how the European Union would tell us how many people we should receive. I don't think this is the right time or thing to go into some independence struggle with the European Union when we are accepting European legislation around here almost every day, which we were often able to put forth greater effort to make changes. It is not so in my opinion when such a wonderful human tragedy occurs that we take it to show that we can stand on our own feet. That's not what it's about. It's about having people agree to deal with such a huge deal as this in which human life rests. I have also had a serious disagreement with the way the prime minister has approached this matter because I feel that he has been suggesting that those fleeing across the Mediterranean and entering Europe are not particularly to be looked at because they have been sheltered by some criminal organization and that they should not be rewarded for it. We're not talking about any normal situation. We are talking about the great plight of the nations, and then we cannot allow ourselves to speak in this way. Those who come across Europe are certainly those who have the best physical resources to do so, not always but often, and are often out of reach, i.e. They leave their families, they decide to finance their own business, and then the family comes. We must also look to family unity, as it were. paritaprevir Well, it's Hjövar's Hjörvar mentioned earlier. We must not divide these people into groups, that they are better or worse refugees than others. We need to look at them all the same. All of this is the same as these people have families, ties, and the right to seek help. Rather, we need to look for those who reach Europe to be strong. They certainly have physical abilities, but no doubt in most cases they are coming first of their families, they have had to leave their families at home, where they will later be reunited. This is what we have to watch. I've found the overcrowded discussion that by welcoming refugees, they've been taking something away from others. Under no circumstances should we set matters this way. Accepting refugees does not result in an exacerbation or a failure of other groups in this country. It's not like that. I don't know any better than research shows that those who come and sit in a new country - although at first some cost is coming back to society very soon. This is being discussed in the Marketing Analysis Centres of Arion Bank where data are summarized showing that it has a positive economic impact to receive groups of people here and that is well logical, so men don't need and don't have and must not be afraid of this. I think there's a very high-level interpolitian agreement on this matter and that we need to do our part. That's why I've been wondering why the government is so long saying that we're going to receive refugees. The Red Cross has said that we are ready to do so. Another dozen of its members have said that they are ready to do so, so the statements are not lacking. We also know well that our insides are strong, and we can do this well. I have to say exactly as it is, this morning, I was very disappointed with the discussion when I had a word with the social and housing minister. It stood here and spoke as if the situation could be compared right now to the situation during the last term, when we know that the number of refugees has become huge in the last two years, and as a Minister of Internal Affairs just corrected them here in another inquiry, we are no longer talking about refugee problems but of national migration. I can't believe we have a social minister in the country who doesn't see this, but she's still counting heads and comparing them together, that it's this kind of fine, the percentage increase now from the last term. That's not what it's about. This is about us standing in the face of unprecedented conditions, situations that we must intervene in and participate in, and we must do our part. I hope we can get together on this council resolution because it's absolutely the least of what we're supposed to do. And if we succeed in doing more in the work ahead, it is something that would also be better. But this is the minimum, and we should be able to get together on 500 people, as suggested. I want it put together again and again in context in my immediate environment. In the block I live in, just over 500 people live. It's no more than that, it's not a bigger project. This may be a small number of people in my block. Let's show what we have in us, Icelanders, and accept this proposal. With support from the council, the government explains what it should do in the years to come, and it also explains better at work whether we can't even receive more and then provide some guidelines in the way we make a decision each time so that we become part of a long - term policy. A respectable president. I'm going to finish my case by saying that I sincerely hope that the government will make an announcement tomorrow that she is going to receive a handsome group of refugees. Though we have few, we still have strong infrastructure, and we are one of the richest nations in the world, and a group of refugees after, in the long run, to expand our community in so many ways, not only for economics, but also culturally and to strengthen us for a long time. Moreover, throughout history such major events have occurred, and it is the duty of each nation to intervene. Or will we leave it in history that we have done nothing in this unprecedented situation? I don't believe it and it'd be a disgrace to Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u70	Madam President. The nature of the matter has been a great deal of time for refugees in society and, fortunately, for the most part, for the most part. You see, it is as if this has repeatedly shown a great deal of responsibility to fail to fulfill the assignment of this vast migration, an amazing number of people. In order to draw this out in the vicinity of the environment, when this proposal was created and brought forward, some 2,500 people were killed trying to cross the Mediterranean and that number is rising. In the context, it may be like my country society, the Mountain and the Davívík. If people just stop and think about it, there are as many people as there are possibly more that have died trying to save themselves and their children and the corresponding population in this area. I agree with the information presented here that I find the discussion extremely weak when it comes to our failure to help people who are fighting for their lives, to take refuge from war, to chaos, and to control, to save their children who may even be separated from their parents, and to be caught in the hands of wrongdoers. We must not go to the point of comparing this, that we cannot receive people under these circumstances because our system at home is not good enough. True, there are many people who have to wait for services, unfortunately, in our welfare system, for health care and for other things, and I'm not going to reduce the unpleasantness and improvement. It's also about the priorities of funds, that my knowledge is primarily about the priorities of money. Of course, it is with this government to have in this regard. But comparing it together and saying that we have to consider first before we can accept people. I say to the people who hurt to bind here at home: This has nothing to do with doing that they don't have the right to better equipment or better terms or anything else they need, they can do the same. Those in such a situation are not voluntary. They are people who are in a condition where they cannot be at home. In this suggestion, we're talking about coders, and we're talking about very few, 500. I haven't wanted to get stuck in any number, but we can draw out what was said here, this is one block here in the city. We're talking about how this is going to spread into the rural areas of the country. Some have doubts about this. I don't have them. I think we're supposed to spread people around our community. All of us can benefit from carrying out this assignment. I live in a rural society where people from Serbia and Croatia have long ago taken up and moved there now. A sighting of people who came just as immigrants and in search of a better life makes me think that any rural society that receives families or individuals do not have to fear them or residents or that there is something to be done about those who are already alive because we add to the people we can learn from, they can teach us so much and also strengthen our population. I encourage people to enter the Red Cross page and see what they're doing. They're also trying to help out at the scene, as we saw so memorable in Castlight's coverage and I say again, I've said that before in this pontu, I encourage people to watch that show if it didn't do it because it was gone incredibly well into this. Contestable but informative. I'll agree we're supposed to go ahead and do this right now. There's no need to wait. We're always putting cases on committees. We can accept this group of people mentioned here, 500 people, playing with ease without having to beat down everything about what things are supposed to be. You see, it is often true that once people have been affected by such extreme events as the result of being on the run, they are not ready to solve all their psychological problems right away. For one thing, it is to take refuge, get a roof over the head, have clean water to drink, bathe, and eat, and it wants to share in the community by going to work. This is one of the things we've heard lately of the people who have come to this country. This is what they want to do. Then, of course, they want to go back to their homes. Most of us want to do so. Most of us want to be where we really know best. The discussion has been too much on the point that people who come here will have a unique system, and therefore take away from others, so I'm asking you, my dear people, and those who think about doing a little more research. A respectable president. I may not have to discuss this matter any further. In itself, I am satisfied with the attitude of the Minister of the Interior, and I feel that she has a balanced view of these matters. I don't necessarily agree with her in all the words she has said about these matters, but it seems to me that she has an increased will to correct and try to do it more quickly. She's also been talking about increasing family unity, and I think it's important. We have people here who have come to our home, but their family is still there. It is important that family unity is not restricted to single mothers or groups. It is far more likely that people will be established and will be able to restore their lives if they have more members of the family or a group of friends here who will be allowed to come to the land and accompany them. If we want to speed up the fact that people become active in the community, I think we need to consider this when we choose the people that come to us. I hope the government gets in a hurry and it has an opportunity with the family harmony right now for those who are already here, there's something you could do right now. I hope, like others, that the government will stop thinking and talking about these matters. Rather, let the action be done, and tomorrow be the first news tonight, preferably tonight, but that the first story we hear tomorrow will be the start of the task. I think that gives a large part of the nation a reason to rejoice. Many have volunteered to share in this grand work. Individuals and families have offered to take on orphans, and people do not turn them away. People are serious because this is the biggest problem we are facing, and unfortunately, it is man - made problem, both in the face of war and in the case of climate change that causes the situation to become the same as it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u71	Madam President. We're here to discuss a proposal for a resolution of increased support for the arrival of refugees. I am exactly one of the partners of this council-sense proposal, which basically assumes that the Allied government will immediately begin its preparations for the arrival of refugees, i.e. Cinderelly. This suggestion suggests that 500 people will be welcomed here in the next three years. In the beginning, I want to say that I feel that this is a total minimum and that it agrees with what has been said to be the basis. Then we're supposed to make policy-making even longer as we're preparing to take on even more people. Hv. paritaprevir In his background, Hjörvar said with this decree that we now do not have to appoint a committee or hold a meeting. Rather, it was time to do it. I sure agree. People live in terrible situations around the world, and I feel that these people deserve to be separated from us, who live in peace and security in one of the world's richest countries, that we take such matters fast, firmly, and safely, and immediately come to the aid of people. This suggestion speaks primarily of enthusiasts but also of promoting family unity. In fact, I think it is extremely important that it is even one of the easiest and fastest to do. Already, there is a considerable number of people to make up the Syrians, people who have been here for a longer or shorter time, and if we were to begin with the family harmony of these people, we would be there with people who have contacts with the Icelandic community. It should be easier for everyone to adapt to a new country and to create a basis for life when a family member has a little knowledge or a glimpse of how an Icelandic community of vagrants can live. I used to have a word with the highest. Minister of the Interior State because last week, reports were made that the Foreign Institute of Iceland had dismissed some of the trustees from Syria on the basis of the Order of Dublin. These are people who have come up here on their own and therefore do not fit in with a group of cry - inspiring people. I think it's important that we give these people who have already come here for asylum, and let them stay here and settle in our society, but we don't refer them back and use the Dublin Protocol as some sort of villain to do so, because there's only a right to send people back to the country they first came to the Schengen area. I don't think it in the spirit of this Regulation or of this agreement that we who live here in Europe's suburbs use our geographic isolation as a villain not to take in the rest of our trusters. Because of the vast numbers of people involved, I don't feel that we can focus on some particular Škatoria ◯ people. Therefore, it is important not only to think of the entourage, since there are so real bad times that many others are in a difficult situation. These people have already come to us, and that's why we should let them stay. Yet, I felt extremely positive. An internal minister said that we no longer send people back to such countries as Greece, Italy, and Hungary, where there are already a huge number of refugees, while other European countries are accepting also vast numbers of people. At the same time, I would also like to say that we can not only focus on those who are already in Europe. My words must not be understood that way. Of course, it is a terrible situation to form in Lebanon, so, of course, we also need to receive intimacies that would even come from among us. I also think it is important that we keep it in mind that most people want to live at home. People don't run away unless they're in grave danger. One factor that causes people to leave their homes is climate change, which makes people free from their homes. Nor can it be overlooked, since we Icelanders as well as other Western nations have fueled wars in faraway lands, and now we are seeing the results of what happens when we engage in warfare and blow lands to bits. It makes sense for people to flee. Of course, to create even greater problems for the future, we need to stop fighting against other nations and thus not create ever - increasing new refugees in the future. As soon as we receive a host of refugees, I feel that we need to keep the cause in mind and also look forward to welcoming those who have come to us right now. The nation has shown its will in the work on the websites of the past few days and weeks. It is quite certain that the majority of Icelanders want to accept people and do them well and do them quickly and willing to contribute their strength, work, and be good hosts who help people to adjust to society and hopefully also learn something new about other cultures and get to know the people who come here. I'm very sad how slow it can be at the highest level. Government. I agree with what's been said here that hopefully we'll get some good news about the government meeting that will be held in the morning and that there will be the first steps to get people here. The first step may even be to stop dismissing the people who have come here. [[The president calls.]] That's what we can do right now, i.e. Allow those here to stay, and then we'll build on top of it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u72	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingibjörg the daughter of Ingadóttir for this important matter. This is a subject that has been widely discussed in the past few weeks and months, if not years, both here and abroad. It has come to pass, however, that there is simply a refugee ice in Europe and not only in Europe but also in surrounding countries and, in particular, Syria. This important matter is a very personal matter for me, but when I was traveling to Armenia in 2012, I stopped in Jerevan, where I met Syrian refugees. It was the year 2012, and it has been three years since those people fled the country, and they have not been able to arrive safely in Syria since then. In fact, they were lucky to have their families come to them, but only because they were of the third generation refugees, these were Armenian Syrians. They were people who had had to flee their homelands from Turkey to Syria at the beginning of the 20th century because of a genocide that took place back then. Armenia is a small country, and it has received many Syrians, mostly of Armenian origin, to save them from their situation. Armenia is a country that doesn't have much between hands, but it's still done more than Iceland ever. I think it's best, by permission of the President, to give the word to my friend Sarkiss Rshdouni, but I was asking him earlier what he wanted to tell the Icelandic people and what he wanted to tell the Allied Congress about the situation that has come up. Sarkiss wants to tell the Allied Council of Iceland that not all the Syrians are terrorists, not all of them are radical salafans. There are many minorities and who have come there, these are not just one nation; these are many peoples who are in distress. Syria, which has been welcomed by refugees over the years, wants Sarkiss to believe that it is time for the Syrians to be paid back for the help and hospitality they have extended to other people throughout history. He also wants to mean that part of the refugee problem is how Western countries respond to this tide of refugees, that we are shutting down all legal means for these people to get to, to seek a legitimate refuge. The border is closing, these people are being placed in concentration camps - or not exactly concentration camps yet, although the situation is terrible and it is, for example. Just a matter of time before cholera surfaces in some Hungary camps, but part of the problem is that refugees cannot apply for a legal refuge. Western countries need to accept it, save it, and help because it is not possible to put international pressure on the current government of Syria. It doesn't matter whether you call it a refugee ice or an ethnic migration in Syria. There is war, and there is nothing new. It has raged for about four years, if not much longer and much has come about because of the intervention of Western nations. If we want to go on the high horse to condemn genocide, world wars, or inhuman policy of a government then we have the opportunity to show it now in action, not only in word but also on table. Icelanders have shown their will to do so, and now it is just a matter of carrying out. You can do it now, you can do it now. I strongly encourage this council. The Minister of the Isthmian to participate in this and to allow the Icelanders who have the opportunity to help these people to receive it, and hence show what we feel.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u73	A respectable president. I would very much like to understand why I am one of the outstanding associates of this fine case. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingadóttir Iggadóttir is a 1st importer. That is because I feel that Iceland is fully responsible and against a plan to take part in the ongoing activities of the international community of meeting the great plight of many people in war - torn countries near the Mediterranean Sea. The problems we face can be divided, first of all, into the refugee problem that persists in the world. V.E.G. A social minister said this morning that some 6 million people were fleeing the world. Of course it is true, there is something that many Western countries, including Iceland, try to respond by planning to receive and receive refugees who are being helped either to get on their feet, to be part of the community, or temporarily, until they can figure out what the next steps are. Of course, the present problem in Europe is due to the situation in Syria, that is, a crisis, an emergency. Then the situation is a little different. Then you need to be ready to move forward with your hands and take the matter more seriously. In recent discussions, it has often been heard that there is a need to be careful and ready to welcome the refugees who will come here, and I agree. Of course, in order to receive and do well to receive refugees, they need to be alive, in a position that can be saved. What we see right now is simply such a crisis that people are dying trying to find safety. That's why this discussion has been so loud, as it turns out, in Europe and here on land. At our front door, people are dying to get to safety. Of course, that is what we are reacting to, and then, of course, people need not take long to respond. The European Union announced today of its plans for switching from refugees to Europe and from country to country. It's quite remarkable, I think, that it should take the European Union, which everyone has criticized for very many years for being a very slow writer's grant, less time to respond to the situation that has come up than the government of Iceland. There must be a story to tell, and that must be a thought - provoking experience. Now, in Icelandic society, Iceland has a view that more refugees are not available to receive or react specifically. In fact, that view is not widespread and does not have very many members according to polls. Of course, if this opinion exists on a table in Iceland's government, it would be more honest for the government to simply acknowledge it and work accordingly. Last week, I was very hopeful when I was the highest. The prime minister announced that he was going to form a minister committee for this purpose. I expected the same week to give some suggestions from that committee, but I hear from the discussion here that she is meeting tomorrow. All right. Then there must be a conclusion tomorrow at that meeting. In fact, it would be most desirable to know how much that committee has found since its highest point. Minister has announced her establishment. Not long after this, the views appeared from the highest point of view. The minister of finance, who is the other head of the government, must be able to do more in these matters than has been determined, and it was very good to hear that, too. In fact, during the weekend there were voices from government spokesmen that would not be an option for the European Union to decide how many people came to Iceland. In fact, I'm not aware that the European Union has intended to decide, or there is some particular issue in this context. Similarly, I found it very strange to hear the talk at the highest level. Yesterday's prime minister, for he said that the number of receivers could run at tens of them because I know there are dozens of people, and that is the decision of some Icelandic public in the light of the situation. In view of the position of taking over 50 people, it may not be very generous for the Icelanders. I've sometimes had in the flash myself that when my life story comes out, which I've decided will get the title of better gone than at sea and hope I can live with it, it will sell into dozens of copies. The point in the joke is that dozens of copies may not be so exaggerating. The number of refugees in this context, in view of the distress that exists, in view of the number of people in Austria, to Germany, is inexhaustible to me. That won't do. I was very disappointed with the answers I received. A social minister this morning when she was asked about these subjects. I couldn't see better than the highest. A social minister would have decided to take time comparing how many refugees had been accepted this year and how many during the last term, just as this case was about some kind of performance competition between the government that is now ruling in Iceland and the last one. It's just not like that. This is no competition in goodness. This is no performance contest for which the government has received more, certainly not. Today, Europe's crust, there are a huge number of people on the run, children dying on their way here. They simply have to be ready to do so and have the ability to get out of this traditional masquerade, my party's better than yours, and to do something about it. And if they're against it, they're not supposed to pretend to be a follower of doing this and then do nothing and keep it quiet until it's too late, and until others have solved it for us because that's what we're facing right now. That's why I wanted to take part in this discussion here on this good subject, which, of course, is a suggestion to create a plan, a suggestion to be successful, it's a suggestion to do this well. But it's also a plea. This reflects the desire among the people to do more than it had been determined because they have the ability to do so in Icelandic society, we all know well, and then we need to act quickly and do it in a way that makes it possible. I want these few words to express great support for this matter, and I also feel very sorry that no representatives of the government are supporting this matter or at least out of the way of being cohesors in this matter. There is nothing in this case that should involve some surrender or permissiveness on the part of the government. It is coming to the conclusion that the government is being assigned to begin immediately with the preparations for the arrival of a host of refugees, hostilities to the country in the next three years. There's no panic here, so it's strange to me. This case was also introduced before the great discussion began, so this is not some random reaction to the government's opposition. This is a well - thought - out proposal, and it should be that as many people should be able to accept it and come along to support this good subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u74	A respectable president. I'm one of the partners of this proposal, and I'm very proud of it. It was a very easy thing to get me to agree with this proposal. You have heard it in the community and are often asked, "How many do you want? " How are we gonna do this? And that is especially the question: How many do you want? How many, 5,000, 500, 50, 10? I find it incredibly difficult to decide what to do with a lot of refugees in Iceland, it doesn't matter. For me, it's a serious situation for the Mediterranean River and not just there but throughout the world, and refugees stream from their homes. For good reason, people from Syria are fleeing from there. Hv. paritaprevir The Árnadóttir Þóra Aarnadótir came in earlier. Why are these people leaving? Why is this incredible flow of people from Syria, since it is especially in our discussion today? Why is that? Yes, it is because of war. People's homes are being blown up. A few years ago, as a nation, we were involved in the war with a nation at the time of the time. To another man, the prime minister decided that we would be participants in that war and accept it as a war. Perhaps this is one of the results of our decision. A nation ready to take the responsibility to go to war with another nation must also take responsibility for the consequences. This, among other things, results. This is the result of the great Western imperial policy against the inhabitants of this region, and not just there, but decades ago or centuries ago, when the Western countries began raiding the colonies and other countries. It's not a great story, and it wasn't the Muslims that did it. It was not Muslims that invaded Africa and slaughtered people there. It is also this debate about the Muslim that has occurred in Iceland, which is very sad. I had an interview last night in Iceland, with a smidge. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson, who said that he felt fear in the community with these people, and that was mostly with older people in Iceland. People may have any concern for these people, but why? Why is this disturbing? Is our experience in Iceland by the people who have moved here bad? I don't think so. I haven't heard of it. In Iceland, it is estimated that some 1,500 Muslims, Icelandic Muslims, and I simply can't find it anywhere that they were involved in this community, that they had riots, or committed crimes. They don't, it's totally against their faith. It's between 201⁄230 you've got. Strangers in Iceland, or people of a foreign background, and in my community, Grindavík, more than 10% are foreigners. These people are completely adapted to the community there. It's doing the most difficult work that Iceland and I don't want. No matter where you arrive in Iceland today, foreigners are doing these jobs, serving them, working in nursing homes as hospital staff, cleaning staff are practically inexplicable foreigners, and in the fishing business. For example, in Grindavik, there are over 70% of those who work for a number of foreigners. These people are well adapted to themselves in Grindavík, and they have never been a trouble. I think it's an extra whether we take 100, 200, 300, 400, 500, or 1,000. This suggestion suggests that we take 100 now and then 200 and 200. It's just a suggestion. I can really ask myself, " Could this guy be taller? We just need to find out. We're not supposed to be political about this. I just hate that. It's supposed to be so easy that we shouldn't have to fold it in a chamber and point one another out, be in some competition about who's better and who's worse. I think it's totally pathetic. And it's beginning to blend the blessed European Union into this. How amazing it is that people use this discussion to do so! By the way, we have plenty of opportunities to do that. It's about the amazing pain and tragedy of people I don't believe in not touching the heart of every single person in Iceland. If they do not, they may be uncaring. TV has done a tremendously recent job in discussing these subjects, showing pictures, and interviewing people. What do these people have? They want to live in peace. They want to be able to raise their children in peace. I'm quite sure that, despite our wonderful and wonderful country, people don't like to go here in search of a better life, people who have grown up in all other circumstances, everything else, and a whole different culture. But they want to come here because there's peace, here's a loving community. Me and the Icelanders love it, though loud smaller things jump on the cart and the example of this and find it all a snare, a witness in the Koran and the Bible, and that thousands of years ago this would happen and give rise to suspicion and hatred. Foreigners who live in Iceland want to live in peace and never have been a trouble. But words can trigger problems, such as those that we have seen in other parts of the North countries but not a major problem. It's just like that. We must realize that in modern societies, there are tremendous changes and people are moving in between continents and countries to a far greater extent than ever before, and we just have to deal with them and be participants in them. It is our moral obligation. We are members of the United Nations Convention on Human Rights. We were one of their founders of a wonderful organization. The 1st saying, 14th paragraph. it says that everyone has the right to seek and enjoy a land of refuge abroad against persecution. We have a moral obligation to do this. I would like to direct my words to those who are afraid in Iceland. They don't have to be afraid. There's no need to panic. The key point is to show love and concern for these people and thus receive them, help them, wrap them around them, and let them know that they are welcome. If we do, there's no chance that things will get worse.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u75	A respectable president. We'll talk about a synonym. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingadóttir Iggadóttir, who is served by 22 members of the Allied Parliament. The proposal is now seen in the shadow of a more frightening world event that is taking place when 60 million people are on the run, fleeing from the catastrophes of war in their homelands. We have discussed this matter in the past few days and have talked about the heavy tide of refugees in this regard, but, of course, the words of poorness are as large as the great events. Actually, we should talk here about migration rather than refugee flows, for that is, of course, what really happens. It claims itself that when such major events occur in human history, it is inevitable that the world's better - begotten part of the world will agree to solve the problem. Some countries, in this context, cannot quite afford the luxury of having a suitable policy on the subject or sitting by, making wealth. It is indeed our time for the Icelanders. In recent years, we have not been prominent in developing help and refugees. Surely, now it is our time to act as human beings, so to speak, and to show human dignity in this context. In the last few weeks, we have observed the circumstances and fate of the people involved and are now fleeing a war - torn area. Of course, the figures we have heard about a number of refugees tell us a certain truth, but it is even now that the newscasts actually tell us even larger truths, telling us more than many words of despair motivates people to go in an uncertain manner in search of a better life in Europe. I don't want to describe the news stories we've seen, we know them, and we know that there's a great human tragedy behind every one and every one of them. The Icelandic public has responded very well, as polls show and newly formed Web sites on which governments are called upon to respond in this matter. Yesterday's advertising times of The Kingdom News made it clear that these events have been shaken by the Icelandic public and are eager to open their arms and react. The call for the government, to respond, and to declare itself ready to welcome more refugees than has been so far. We have also discussed in this discussion the fact that an immigrant policy is one. An immigrant policy is something that the government puts in a calm, smoother way to welcome and adapt to those who would like to come to Iceland and take root here. Of course, foreign matter overlaps with refugee issues, but there is no totally identical signal between the latter and the second challenge that we see today that calls for quicker action and more selective measures than we allow ourselves to be allowed to discuss in the general population of immigrants. Today, however, the situation that we face in refugee affairs is basically a need for ice control and crisis. We are now facing one of the greatest human languages these parts of the world have been facing for decades. Me and the Icelanders can't fail this test. This is a test of our moral strength. It is a measure of national moral strength whether and how the people of the land will respond to those who seek help when they are in need. We're not allowed to fail this test at all. This synonym suggests that in the next three years we will receive 500 refugees. The reasons are very clear. I'm not going to repeat them or start repeating much of what has been discussed in the discussion until now. I just want to put it back, Mr. Honorable President, that for now Iceland's economy is rapidly improving. We're getting up from the economy, and we're making economics. We were few days ago discussing the provision of 15 billion dollars. Which, above the terms of the budget, stand. We can afford it, and we have in us the ability, the knowledge, and the desire of the public to help those who are in pain and in the country from a tragic situation. We should show that we are men, not mice, and welcome these people, open our doors, provide them with friendship, assistance, and assistance in adapting to the Icelandic community, they want to be here forever. If circumstances improve in one of the local countries, we also must not take offense if people want to go back to their homes. That's normal. We Icelanders live in a land of harsh nature, which can show its power in a harsh way. We personally know the importance of humanitarian and cohesiveness when disasters, such as natural disasters, have been experienced quite rapidly in recent years and decades. We know how to plan for relief. When appropriate, we may welcome people and show hospitality and kindness. Now it certainly is. Since war is a disaster, I don't doubt that if governments take that step and decide at a government meeting tomorrow to receive more refugees than they have been, and the council will respond well, and that plan will be set up to take 500 people in the next three years, I don't doubt that both the council and the government will have the support of the majority of the people in the country. I certainly hope so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u76	A respectable president. First, I'd like to thank the movers for this important plagiarism and especially at the same time. paritaprevir Ingibjörg, Iglildu the daughter of Ingadóttir, who took the initiative in her life. Of course, to me it's obvious that we support it and that I really find it very strange to have something to talk about. But in the last few weeks, I've been through a lot and I've had a lot of thoughts and a lot of things I'd like to say, which made it difficult for me to decide what it was that I wanted to talk about here today. What does it matter to say? What is it that comes with the people, refugees, best? Hv. paritaprevir Steingrímsson Steingrimurson wrote on his Facebook page on August 28, where he discussed the refugee problem and the importance of taking responsibility for it. By permission of the president, he said: "Mani feels bad about the person. " I thought it was a good word. It's kind of like that I've felt the same way. I don't like the person. I'm looking at human beings being made to nothing, and our human bodies sometimes react a bit strangely. I feel bad about a person for many reasons, especially because we made it up. War does not come from the earth automatically, nor does it fall from the heavens; it is human action. These are decisions we've made. We'll make it. We have shared in financed it and are still doing many things, so we have a particularly responsible responsibility to respond. We can't really look away. And while we have no responsibility, neither could we look away. But in view of the fact that we are doers of this matter, we need to accept our shame and take a fresh look at a book in this regard. What makes me feel bad about a person is looking at the media and pictures and seeing that it always takes it to wake us up. I'm no exception, we're so incredibly unconscious because of our privileged position that we need to see images of dying children in a flood to wake up. It gets on my nerves. It bothers me primarily with myself that I'm not a better person than I am to us as a community. Of course, you often think about all kinds of things, but it's like you always had to stuff it in your face to make us respond. I think there is one lesson to learn from this that this is always a problem that is there, unfortunately. War has been around for a long time. This reminds us that we must always be alert, must always be on guard, and cannot always jump when things get out of hand and get to something. What may also have been difficult for me and made me feel bad about the person is that the discussion has been complex. She's been positive and she's been negative and she's been weird. Some voices have flashed up that we can't be helping people from other countries who're on the run because we're in so much trouble ourselves because we're dealing with problems, society's groups are peripheral and live in violations of human rights. That may be true in itself. There are many groups in Iceland who do not have human rights. And there's a lot of problems in Iceland that have to deal with. But I think it's only natural for us to realize that we're not so beyond compare. We must be able to do a lot of work at once. I find it very strange to hear special government or politicians talk like that, that they hide behind the perimeter line in Iceland to not accept their responsibility for refugees. I would like to read from a quote that says that women who are disabled in Talu's declaration and a group of women's movements that we sent to Congress tomorrow, explaining how it makes us feel when we are used as an excuse for violating the human rights of others. With President's permission, a quote begins: ▪ Our firm - i.e. The position of women who are disabled - ◯ is not that it can be compared to that of refugees. We are not dying in trucks or drowning in the Mediterranean Sea. To compare our lives together is, at best, a complete lack of understanding for our lives and refugees. Finally, we strongly emphasize that human rights violations against us, which are certainly gross in Iceland, are not used as an excuse or reason to make a conscious decision to break other groups of inactivity. We do not want to be used as a front for thoughtless politicians. What we're saying is that we have a problem, but there's nothing to do with the fact that millions are running and that we have to take responsibility for it. We also agree in this statement that I find very important to say that in general the government does not have any particular concern for our situation. All of a sudden, though, that's a big concern. It is, in effect, an incredible hypocrisy. Fortunately, this is not the only message society is sending. On the contrary, the response of the city in society has been very positive. People have offered their help. It has declared willingness to support refugees, e.g. On Facebook and on all kinds of reality campaigns. People want to do their part. People are ready and are actually waiting for governments to do something. That's really positive and good, and it's made me very happy. I've been proud to be part of a community that can. On the other hand, there are thoughts that I cannot ignore that we need to be careful in this discussion. The powerful force in helping refugees or working with refugees cannot be based solely on compassion or compassion, that we are talking about their problems and how we will come and save them. Right now, there's a lot of refugees showing some insanely self-sufficiency. It is self - saving, of course, with the help of many, but survival is primarily on its own. It is a decision to leave their homeland, to risk their lives in order to get away. All we have to do and we're doing is create space and give support and work with the group. But we're not some superhero. I don't want to be one of those people who think so. I think it's embarrassing. Although I don't know what it's like to be a fugitive or a fugitive, I know quite a lot about what it's like to be involved in being somebody's pussy. It's a really uncomfortable feeling, it's really humiliating and it doesn't help at all. Sometimes it is even worse than feeling contempt, prejudice, and hatred. The reason I'm saying this is because I think it's important that we keep it in mind that we come here, I'm just gonna hope, a lot of refugees, and that's the experts. It is the experts who can best tell us how to do this themselves, along with the people who have their jobs working toward developing cooperation and people who have already helped refugees in Iceland. I find it very important that as soon as we show love and respect and show that we are ready to help, we remember that the people are the people who are supposed to define themselves, that is, the people who are supposed to define what is difficult and what is not, what services and help they need, and whether they need compassion or not. It's important. Finally, I would like to say that we need to respond in a rapid and professional manner. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to point out that there are people who do so every day, people who work in an ambulance, saving people. [[The president calls.]] You have to make very fast decisions and work very professionally and fast. That is exactly what we need to do now. [[The president calls.]] We need to make quick decisions, work professionally, and do so preferably today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u77	Mr. President. I recommend a proposal made by all means. Councilmen of the left movement ▪ Green bid for national parks in the central highlands This proposal is based on the proposal that we at the left movement have previously made, and I would particularly like to mention Hjörleifur Guttormsson, who started working on these cases in the 1990s, but later Guðfríður - fearing Lilja Grétarsdóttir, who brought up a case about the establishment of Hofjörgjörgjörgjörður Park. This proposal is based on that work. Guttormsson's legacy suggested at one time the establishment of both the Hoftykjörður and the Lakejörður National Park, that debate, or that idea came up in the mid - 1990's, and it was in 1998. a member of Parliament, Hjörleifur Guttormsson's son, gave a plagion proposal to set up four national parks in the middle of the country that would be within the limits of the world's most important slopes and adjacent territories, i.e. And the coldness of the sea, and the great men of the earth, and the corny pool, and the salty pools of the sea, and the wild beasts of the earth. This proposal was reassigned to the 123th legislature and led to General Assembly resolution in 1999 regarding the establishment of Lakejörgjörður Park, and its results became the law of 2007, through a Lakehjörk national park. Then, in the spring of 2008, the national park was officially established by the Regulation. Since then, some proposals have been made to the Hofsjörg National Park, but we now recommend the establishment of a national park on the central highlands following a rumor concerning that proposal. In recent years, the debate on nature protection has changed greatly, and the demand for the peace of the central highlands has become loud. A conference was held in spring at the University of University, under nature protection and outdoor society, where this requirement was pronounced very strongly and received a great deal of support from the conference. This has been examined in surveys in which a greater proportion of the population favors the establishment of a central national park. When proposals for the establishment of Hofjöfjörbjörg National Park were finally made, it was noted in the review of Land Protector's view that Iceland's central highlands were entitled to be at peace with a national park. It even says, by permission of the president: ▪ Many and strong evidence points to such peaceful conditions; special nature for which the Icelanders are responsible, the capacity for unique experiences and mental well-being, and sustainable tourism, and the value of the nation. Experiencing nature is also very important for the physical health and well - being of people. The special status and value of the region are of unique nature, vegetation, geology, and agriculture, the unique interaction of fire and ice, and the incomparable contrasts in landscapes and regions that many of which are believed to be among the last continents of Europe. This review made it very clear that Hofsjöfjörg National Park was suggested, in effect, to be extended. This has been suggested for national parks in the middle of the country. The review also shows that support, which has been measured to a central national park, which is extremely interesting, but the survey made by a nature protection organization in 2011 was 56% in favor of such national parks, only 17.8% opposition, and 26.2% did not take sides. So the idea proved to be supported by the voters of all political parties, among all age groups and throughout the country. Of course, this shows the change that has been under discussion about nature protection over a few years, and I allow myself to, in fact, tell of 2002, 2003, that I began to interfere with politics then, especially because of the discussion of the Cheflönnsk and the widespread depravity that was being corrupted there. This debate has changed ever since then, and I think that more and more people will come to appreciate the value of having unmoved nature and a wide range of things in my language even in the last large European continents. Our proposal reads: ▪ The General concludes to hide the Environment Minister to prepare and implement a partnership with the relevant bodies of national parks that cover the whole of Iceland's central highlands. The secretary will set up a national park plan and measures that must be taken for the project for the Council of the Council at the Fall Council of 2017 with the aim of establishing a central national park in the spring of 2018 when 90 years have passed since the creation of the Þingval Act. We would like to link the proposal to this history of national parks in Iceland, but in the spring of 1928, the Allied Council adopted a law on the Peace of the Þingalval, which described the Axis Field at the Peaceful Place of All Iceland from the beginning of the 1930's of the Festival of July. There, in fact, a significant milestone was established in a separate country and nation that the protection of the public land was granted to the Lawgiver's approval and that arrangements were made in line with what was aimed at preserving them culture and natural processes. Of course, it was of great importance, as shown here in a report that it was the ancient province, much like the natural objects in it. The General Assembly was founded on the Parliament, the Congress on the Axes River in a special and grand environment from its establishment in a nationalized period until 1798. The Parliaments thus had a clear, symbolic value as a historical site, but the natural process was enchanted, as a submerged paper with a bill to correct the peacemaking of the Þingals to limit the national population's limit with a Queen's Peace of Peace, to protect as well as the historical places and natural elements of the Þingalves. Nationalism was thus the driving force to preserve the culture and natural makeup of the great world. Although the preparation of the International Festival of Booths held in the United States during 1930's was among the influential powers that caused the description of peace at that very time, the plans were also marked by long - term thinking and the desire to protect the Field and the historical memories of future generations. It's quite remarkable when you read this old paper to see there the long-term thinking that we sometimes call today sustainable development, the ideologies of sustainable development, i.e. making decisions in relation to future generations. This article reviews the situation at the Parliament's time, leading to the appointment of these laws. I'm gonna let you do it. Councilmen reading the fun story themselves, but the reason we're considering this is that the establishment of the Þingalval National Park was, in effect, the first stage of protecting certain areas of the country for the construction and other noises in the view of allowing the public to enjoy them unstealed. Then, in 1967, a national park was formed when the Skaphftfells National Park was formed. In 1973 a national park was set up in the Jackion Gorges on the basis of nature protection law, and in 2001 the National Park was founded on the basis of laws on nature protection. Then, as I went through the past, in the 1990's a great debate on the affairs of the central highlands, and it was in the atmosphere of what the Hjörleifur's Guttormsson Gutorm, mentioned earlier, first proposed for national parks in the middle of the world, which was to be marked by the four glaciers, Lakejol, Hofjörnish cold, Langjokul, and Snowy River. It was moved twice, and the product of that motion was a Lake Earth park. When it was founded, the parks that were once in the Skafts and glaciers of the newly formed national parks began to penetrate. A great and good step for nature protection was seen in Iceland. It covers the lakes, the largest earth's population, and its next affected area, which contains unique landscapes, earth pictures, and life forms now protected. The park is a government agency, and as its policy is developed by a minister-made administration and within its limits, citizens are owned by the government and private members, and several societies are within its administrative and influential domains. The experience that has been gained by the activities of a Lake Earth park and the use of its governments in fulfilling the central role of such institutions to protect nature and make it available to the public should be used to further efforts in this area. As I also reviewed at the outset several times, a decree has been made to the establishment of a Hofty-City Park, first at a 140th legion, back to 141. By Guðfríður Lilja Grétarsdóttir, and by some other members of the council, and the members of the VG have then offered the proposal twice without its success, and even though the matter was our priority at the last two councils. This synopsis suggests that a national park will be introduced into the whole of Iceland's central highlands. We testify in this report to the stories received from nature protection organizations that would have called this region the heart of the country. This is because understanding of the need and value of nature protection is increasing, and the need for highland peace increases year by year. I quoted earlier from 2011 to the conference at the highland festival held in the spring of 2015 at the University Bible. I'd also like to mention, in the end, why I think the matter is very urgent, and that is still one of the priorities of the left movement at the Allied Council of Iceland. We're looking at the front thoughts of the fortresses, roads, electric lines that all touch the central highlands. All of this has resulted in the removal of this region and, in turn, the land as a whole, a truly remarkable characteristics and qualities that are impossible to recover. And what's so crying about these threats is that they're based on a shardy thought where they're pinching out zones with one activation here, one electrical system there, one road here, and always shrinking and shrinking these large areas until they can't live under a name like that. It is a unique experience for any man who has gone up to Iceland's highlands to experience being alone with nature and no construction in sight. Of course, it is something we should consider as a nation. I have sometimes said it here when we discussed a frame plan at the last assembly that we sometimes forget about the value of it. We know all of us who have flown across Europe as we look down on the square areas that fill the land and rarely see any areas that are impregnable to human activity. Then, when they fly home to Iceland, we see the land completely enjoying itself without human activity. It is not of little value, because in the 20th century and the 21st, of course, huge environmental and natural changes from human use, we can say, resources and landscapes that have made man change the earth more in this century and in the last century, but we have seen nature itself change the earth until then. Humans can use their influence to make great changes, and it must be thought - provoking for us members at the National Assembly of Iceland whether we will allow the highlands to go the same way or if we can agree to follow the will of a greater part of the nation and make sure that there will be a national park in the middle of the country. I'm pretty sure that it would be a decision for which future generations would thank us, just as we here today thank the Allied Council adopted in 1928 by the Congress National Park. I think all of us here must be very grateful to those members of the council who then made that decision, and we have full opportunity to make those who will stand here in 90 years just as grateful.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u78	A respectable president. I just wanted to come up here and celebrate this case, which is very good in my opinion. This proposal has come from what happened several times. Councilmen of the left green and are the best. At times, I find myself in a state of distress, lying in general sleep and reading the suggestion of Hjörleifur, son of Guttormsson, quoted in the speech of both. a carrier earlier, about the establishment of national parks around the glaciers, i.e. The cold waters, the cold of Hofham, the Lofjoku, and the cold of Micrdal. I have been very impressed with the idea of creating one national park in the middle of the country. I would have really wanted to go beyond that and to unite under that rule of Þingalva National Park and the National Park Solvenjörg so that people would have at the same hand one large national park that was, in fact, not necessarily located in one place. It would seem that a reservation to the Mountainyard, the land of Kings, and other regions, such as Thors Rivers would be part of this park. I think that it would be much easier to plan these areas for research on a natural field and for maintaining the natural environment in which it remains unmoved for what it is and also for us who live on this land and tourists to come and experience contact with the eternity that can be found in these places that have not really been affected by humans. It should not be a great sacrifice for Icelanders to decide to appease these areas. They are on the boundaries of the barley one. There are very few people who could spend the entire year in those areas. It cannot be imagined that many occupations can exist there. At the edge of this area, especially when it comes to Injoining, the natural environment is being used in one of six or seven hydrodynamic operations. This area is totally at the edge of what you can do without completely disrupting it. Of course, it is a matter of nature and environment. We tend to mix up in a discussion of environmental protection and environmental protection, but the environment is something that we humans live in and have influenced and developed according to our needs, in many ways in order to control the forces of nature, especially in Iceland. When it comes to Iceland's nature, we simply have a few things that don't really have anything in the world. Therefore, measures are needed to protect as much of these areas as possible. It is not just something that people should consider out of a sense of duty to future generations or to ourselves that now inhabit that land. I think it's our global obligation to watch out for what you can find in Iceland's nature. I'm not talking about Iceland's nature as some phenomenon that can't be done at all or that's not supposed to interfere in any way. I don't view national parks as objects that involve doing nothing about the area. On the contrary, I feel that national parks should be alive. I think people should be able to travel in national parks. I feel that people should be able to come into contact with the natural worlds there, and I think it is very important that what is done there is in terms of man's ability to fit the experiences of those who come there. Despite one way or another, human experience can help. Of course, beauty can be enjoyed at the Highway, although it is humanized. It's a very good example of an area where the man has been significantly affected by the landscape, but there's really nothing in the landscape that reminds us of man's arrival, except perhaps a dam on either side of the Sydur-Theatre. Furthermore, this experience with unmoved nature is of the presence of this large earth with burbling and the coldness of the tongue, similar to the experience of being in the vicinity of total unscrupulous nature. I feel, however, that a national park is a control tool to cover such areas and to use them in a specific, organized way so that the areas in question will receive special protection and ideas about employment, etc. certain procedures have to be carried out. I feel that there is a special opportunity to create one large national park in Iceland, which covered existing reservations and national parks, and even some of the nationalities, in order to provide them with a very sensitive area that holds a very special law. It is not necessarily possible for tourists who come to the country and may be guided by guides from other countries who are fully equipped to do so and who have every right to tell people about Icelandic poverty, that they are aware of Icelandic uniqueness. For example, I think that specific areas with specific rules for them might include enforcing guide guides that they had completed a course in Icelandic ecology, the consequences of outdoor driving, and the actions of wild nature of this species. There are a lot of people who come to Iceland, and not just those who come to Iceland, but people who live here and travel around the country, who think that organic waste is something that just gets destroyed in nature, and it's really all right to throw away banana shells, berries of orange, or leave toilet paper underneath a stone, etc. As the number of tourists increases, we see a number of examples that seem to be widespread. But the fact is, at the same time that this waste is very quickly destroyed in foreign nature, where the temperature is different, it takes a very long time for Iceland's natural content to be removed so that it does not become prominent. Of course, visitors'experience does not make it much fun to come to the highland waste, even if it is organic. This is just an example of what I think government modules like a park in the middle of the country and even bigger could lead to. If so, we would have some special rules. Rather, we would have instruction, living things, any means of welcoming people, contacting the school system, etc. I welcome this matter, and I intend to support it and its progress at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u79	President. We'll discuss a proposal for an interpretation of a national park in the middle of the country, proposed by the United States Council left movement ◯ green offer and proselytism. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, was well - aware of her historical background. As shown in her case on the synoptic proposal for some action and history, both here at the council, but perhaps as well as in the community debate, in general currents and environmental protection policies. This may have been where I wanted to add to the viewpoints discussed here. First, the views that have a bearing on the understanding of landscape beliefs in general. There are changes in popular schools, as it were, to nature protection, which for a few lost years may have been much more focused on a certain pattern of view, so to speak, i.e. The goal of protecting certain areas, habitats, species, or vegetation rather than by taking into account landscape barriers. This view has increased, so it can be said that the most important policy point we've been looking for, both in a natural protection program through the years and, in part, in our approach in a frame plan, we've been looking at smaller and more targeted areas. For example, it is unlikely to remember a frame plan, that there are several activation options in one area that all fit under the name Torfajölus. It is now that Torfijokukus, as a whole, is in the preparatory phase for UNESCO registration and no one is considering the Torfajokul area as a whole but as a whole. During the last term, we at the Environment Ministry had been preparing for the expansion of the Peace Land in the Red Sea, and in this spirit, we were looking forward to not studying where the expansion of the Peace Land in the Red Sea was growing, but rather to extend the peace profile to the glacier itself, i.e. The cold of seven, which would form a continuous unit north and northwest into the Gudges of God. Thus, this approach has been being strengthened in the terms of peace and, as it were, the environment of the environment, to look at larger and more continuous areas. It comes as no surprise to the person mentioned here that in this case, the pioneer of nature's environment here at the General Assembly, the Hjormfur Guttormsson of Nature, was speaking in that spirit several decades ago, i.e. To look at four national parks in the middle of the world around its main yards; Lake glacier, Hofjölak, Longjolkus, and Micrdal Israel; for Hjörleifur was a great breakthrough in this language and was always of great interest from the very first time when these issues were discussed at the General Assembly of the Icelanders. It is a pleasure to know that this signal can be maintained, but at the same time, it is made known, as did others whom he in his time raised, that the followers increase. More and more people believe that this route is good, i.e. First, to look at large groups and second, to understand it, not just with your head, but with your heart, your language is nothing like it and should be protected. Not only for us but also for the growing tourism and increasing understanding of tourists all over the world that they are globally valuable, as well as for future generations as for what I allow to say, and I think we should say more often that nature can also be protected for itself. Not necessarily because of the present or future generations above the head, because nature can grow so well without us, but without it we cannot be, and therefore nature's protection is most important to us. It has shown that there are threats to the central and global areas. However, I would like to say that in the discussion of electrons at the last assembly, 144th, and the national planning policy at the same assembly as in discussions and conversation with the highest level. The Environment and Resource Minister here earlier today for national planning policies increases the voice when we are talking about electrons, roads and national planning that the viewpoints are discussed under those terms. The protection of the Middle East and the protection of the countries in Iceland are now being planned only for such teams here at the council. Therefore, I'd like to allow me to believe that time has worked with these views and that members of the Parliament are growing in all groups that are closer to the ideologies that protect the highlands, the central areas, and the larger decisions may be on our level and that could give rise to important natural protection in Iceland. I hope that this excellent proposal has been established, we have seen it in the consideration of the proposal and similar ideas in the community, as shown in a report on the case that in 2011, Capacent Gallup's leading environmental protection organization was introduced to the survey of national opinion of the National Institute of National Park in the middle of the country, and it was found that 56% of those who responded in favor of such parks. So this proposal, which is recommended here, reflects the majority of the nation's will. So I have reason to expect that at the General Assembly would be willing to reflect the national willingness by handing up this council-sounding party at the left movement, which is one of our priorities for this Council of 145th to the end. National parks in themselves are important and remarkable because they are not only about protection, research, and reevaluating nature mines; nor do national parks have the obligation to educate and inform the entire public at all ages, and especially the youngest generation on the value of nature. The role of education is just as important, and it is an exciting, satisfying project that would be faced with a new national park and with governments about to create a powerful educational program in Iceland's New Highland National Park.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u80	V.E.G. President. I recommend here for bill to correct law change, No. 95/2000, of birth and parent'sorof, by subsequent changes. Transporters with me have a problem. The members of Björt Ólafsdóttir, Brynhildur Pétursdóttir, Guðmundur Steingrímsson, Óttarr Proppé, Róbert Marshall, Katrín of Jakobsdóttir Jacobs, Helgi the Hrafn of Gunnarsson and Össur Skarphéðinsson. 1st par. The bill reads: ▪ Instead of the words ◆ the shared right to a maternity clinic for up to three months to 1st. 1.mg. Section 12. comes: the right to birthworm for up to three months each, as well as three months that one parent can take as a whole or as a parent. 2.g. ▪ Instead of the words "a common right " for birth, for up to three months, to a language of 1st. 1.mg. 20. comes: the right to birth performance for up to three months apart, as well as three months that one parent can take as a whole or as a parent. Section 3. Explains itself, but it is: ◯ This law comes into effect when it comes to value. I presented this bill before the last assembly, 144 legislatures, case No. 413, and now contribute to that conclusion, since they were not discussed at that time. The bill is suggested to provide the right of parents whose mothers have still babies after 22 weeks of pregnancy with the rights of parents who lose a child shortly after birth during their delivery. In such cases six months, open - minded laws distinguish between birthworm rights and birth strength. So there is no basis for reasonableness. Right from the validation of the law No. 97/1980 about law change No. 67/1971 on social security, Icelandic law has prescribed the right of parents to birthworm due to stillbirth. According to the first law on abortion and stillbirths and comments, it was the mother who was entitled to one month of maternity and was scheduled for the woman to recover from childbirth. As a result of the development of abortion and stillbirth, an increased emphasis can be seen on the spiritual aspect of such a shock. For example, in the comments of a bill that turned into a law on birthworm, No. 51/1997, is referred to as taking long time for a woman to recover physically and spiritually after the birth. With valid code on birth and parentorof, No. 95/2000, was right because of a still child made together for three months, in line with the general change in that both parents had the right to the birth of a child. The birth of a dead child is a devastating blow. The death of a child shortly after birth is also a devastating blow. The difference between the two is claimed to justify the different rights of the current law. If a baby dies in its womb before it is born, the parents will have a common three - month birth offering. However, soon after that, the parents who have a living child will receive a full nine months according to the general principle on the length of birthworm. In both cases, parents face a similar process of grieving, as well as the pressures of a baby's birth. The process of spiritual recovery is similar whether the baby died in the womb or shortly after birth. So the bill suggests that the parents'right to birthworm and birth strength at the stillborn child will be independent for up to three months each and for another three months, a total of nine months. This is in accordance with the proposed guidelines for the death of a child shortly after birth based on the general rights of the length and division of birthworm and birth strength. I started writing this bill last year when I was exposed to this discrepancy and, in fact, an injustice with this point. There were many people who challenged me to do that, perhaps especially because there was nothing that happened far from me that people lost their child, and there was still no breath at birth. Neither I nor anyone else can tell what a woman or a parent or a family will long recover from such a devastating shock to a child. I want to read from an article that our good friend and companion, Guðbjartur Hannesson, wrote about it. He's not here today because of our illness, and I want to take this opportunity to send him combat and recovery, and I know he doesn't care if I read this article he wrote and published on October 15, 2012. Her name is 'Messar during her pregnancy, and her baby's missing'. I feel that this article captures what the bill is all about, and the loss of a child is devastating to people. He wrote the article in view of the fact that the support group of our angels carried out a memorial service for a loss during pregnancy and the loss of a child in Hallg Monster Church on October 15, 2012. In this article, he says, with the permission of a president: ▪ When a child is to come, the celebration is great; any expectations exist that will be applied to a person with whom parents and other caregivers will have the future. Each year, however, a number of people suffer the deep grief that the future of this little person, when the baby is stillborn, too early to live, or to die after birth. The parents are left with smiling hopes, empty cradles, and deep sorrows that no word can describe. Yet, we have words that describe children without parents, partners without mates, and no mention of being a parent who has lost a child. The tragedy of the future, however, is not just the parents. She's also the sadness of Grandma and Grandpa, brothers and sisters, uncles, aunts and friends. All these people experience the grief of their loved ones. In recent years, the response and attitude to those who experience this painful experience have changed greatly for the better. In the past, trying to protect people from grief by pretending that nothing had happened, there are many who have not been given the opportunity to cope with their loss and grief. Similarly, many find it difficult to show empathy, not finding words, or not know what is appropriate in these difficult situations. The efforts of the support group of our Angels are important, for with open discussion the group wants to support those who lose their lives by showing empathy for their grief. Words are often unnecessary, presence, hug, or warm handshake. These words written by the Guðbjartur - given son of Hannesson describe the exact things I am referring to. I thank him for them and for having had the opportunity to use them to support the bill. I sure hope there's a discussion at the council, and we'll discuss these matters. I'm sure it seems like so many things to each other, but to me, it's a great deal of justice, and I know parents who have had to know about it, and they say that it's a justice thing. You can't tell people to just go home and rest for three months. It's a huge shock. V.E.G. President. I say again, I hope the bill gets a track crew at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u81	Mr. President. I'm not going to extend this discussion in particular, but I'd like to agree that I think this is a very important justice matter, and I'm sure there are many of us in the position of knowing people who have gone through a lot, including. the birth of death. I felt that those words, written by our Guðbjartur - fearing son Hannesson, were read here were very appropriate words. You see, it's like this: Those who go through this tragedy but also the big family, it's not only about those people who go through the loss of a child but also about the big family. The discussion is opening up, and it has, of course, been opened, but as was said here, it may have been a matter of silence in the past, people in general have not discussed it, but compassion is far more than often in the past. I think we may be at odds about whether the ore should be nine months or six months or something like that, people can get stuck in it, but most of all, I think it should be thinking about the spiritual condition of the individual. As one authority said, the parents remain with an empty cradle, preparing for the arrival of this little individual, and nothing is to fill it with a void, at least being given a proper opportunity to do so, choosing to accept the power of birth. It's actually something special if we wonder that this difference is in the system, on the one hand, it's the birth of a dead baby after this long pregnancy, or the birth that is exactly at week 22 and then it dies a week later, but the system handles it in a very different way. Well, that doesn't make any sense. I didn't mean to discuss it very much. I wanted to come up here and agree with this because this is one of the many fair and fair issues that I think we need to try to get a good discussion about, both here at the council Hall and in the Committee. I hope we succeed in changing the legal environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u82	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a synonym as to the interpretation of independent police operations and practices. The movers, along with me, are the reason. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir and Helgadóttir Guðrún Helgavóttir. The motion is as follows, by permission of the president: The General concluded to hide the Council's Committee for Presidency to have a legal hearing for a special agency by the Generals, which is independent of police operations and practices. And while the bill is being prepared, it will include look to the Agency to get them to: a. start checking on your own initiative, b. accept charges against individuals who consider the police to have violated their rights. c. An investigation of the alleged violations of police work, d. investigating local police reports of harassment and sexual harassment, ... researchfrom anonymous exposés inside police or administration. Then, in preparation of the bill, the Agency will also be able to oversee whether the Agency can employ prosecution in such measures. The bill will specifically require the independence of the Agency. The Presidency Committee provides the bill for introductions along with the cost analysis as late as the spring Summit 2017.◯ This proposal was also made during the last assembly, and then I gave a talk that is materially and, to a large extent, the same as I move here today, with a special permission from the president. The proposal assumes that the bill covers a wide range of functions of the Agency. First of all, a general police operation. This includes monitoring the existence and availability of procedures for police officers, monitoring the application of police authority, the implementation of housekeeping, telecommunications, arrests, preservation of arrests and police services to the general public. Second, a survey of cases caused by complaints coming from the public, members, individuals, or lawyers. Often there are issues related to the implementation of police work that indicate that something might have been better left without any suspicion of a criminal offense on the part of the police. The Agency could handle such complaints and have the authority to call for explanations and data from police services. Third, a secondary investigation by police officers. This refers to both the alleged violations of police officers against their duties and their alleged offenses against the public and the individual. Fourth, studies involving major police violations, whether at work or outside. This refers to the violations of prison punishment, or gross financial punishment. Special attention is given to the fact that, unlike the studies of minor fractures, which should only include alleged fractures during the duties of the field, it is recommended that the Agency also investigate major fractures suspected of having committed outside the work hours by a policeman. This would prevent police from investigating the behavior of their male and female brothers and could result in serious financial punishment or imprisonment. It would also be assured that such research would have the advantage of credibility beyond the present system of things. At the fifth and final steps, the Agency needs to consider whether it can be granted legal authority on matters under which it is heard. However, this calls for a special view of the government's trinification of the state government, but the goal is to make prosecutions less associated with the police. A respectable president. There are plenty of reasons to keep independent police surveillance. Every year the police and their conduct come up without a direct violation of penalties or anything similar. For example, consider the way the police look at people and under what circumstances, for example, whether it is normal to visit every guest directly, such as the Extreme Chill Festival that was celebrated this year. It was because there was a new organization with the police, and she wanted to show something about who hired that place. I don't know if it's true, a respectable president, but that's at least what you hear from a few sources. As a result, the police may use methods that are beyond what is necessary. I firmly believe that people in general do not want to be under constant supervision and constant pressure from law enforcement unless necessary. According to this, it is also important to keep this suggestion in place not only for the benefit of the public but also for the police themselves. It's important to the police itself, and a lot of people are sorry. Police officers and police officers and police officers have called directly after, unquestioned, to set up independent police surveillance to make the lines clear, so that when there is a custom of doing something that is not fully in harmony with the letter of the law, it would be adjusted in some way. While the police rely on such supervision from people with whom they also work hard, the inevitable happens that certain cultures, some cultures, will develop. It is not good for the officers who want to do what is best for the job and who want the police to have the highest confidence in all social classes, including those who often have the so - called and well - known trouble. The police find it difficult to ensure that if they develop some kind of culture, they can work as best they can in behalf of the citizens, which makes the police prone to act in ways different from what they expect. A fine example of this is when men are arrested, but they are not told why. When asked to do this, officers refuse to answer, as if such questions should exist in some American films when it is tried that it is the right of the individual to know why he is arrested and what his rights are, what his rights are. It is repeated that this is often not done, and it is not taken for any reason. This is probably some kind of cultural thing that has developed over the years. These rights are being heard in American movies, thinking it's just a movie thing to do, not in the real world. Another is how police officers often threaten to arrest and take them to a station if there is no permission to search. Then it works that a person who may be or may not have the famous trouble or even no alleged trouble is in some place at a particular time, and a policeman wants to look at the person. Then there's a crash, and you hear such stories as never before, a respectable president, that a police officer wants to search people. He says no or asks why or something like that, so the policeman threatens to take the person out of any situation in progress, entertainment or whatever, down to the police station and hang there, awaiting a court order from a judge. There are only two legitimate circumstances where a police officer can be consulted by citizens, on the one hand by a court order, and with the approval of the person to be sought. However, the police may take the person to a station, be able to arrest him, and investigate a suspect, and then wait for a court order. Then, because of rejection, the individual must have something to hide and, of course, receive a court order. This is a problem similar to that of wire taps and sources for listening. They are, in effect, automatically approved if so much as one would consider asking for a warrant. This is one of the problems that are not easy to deal with, but they have some kind of independent surveillance because the surveillance center is not linked to those being monitored. Then I'll reiterate to police officers who want this okay, I'm not talking about a police officer who wants it all right. former police chief Stefán Eiríksson, or why. The former chief police officer Geir Jón Þórisson, who was exactly responsible for this case last year, feels that the police'independent surveillance will serve the interests of the entire community, including the police. I think if we had independent surveillance, the citizens would be more cooperative and second, they wouldn't be so afraid of the police. Often, when the police ask someone about their names, they refuse to answer without having something to hide, just because they have suspicions about the police. While the police are very trusting in the community, there is a very large group in the community who do not trust the police, hardly to call them in case of trouble. There are examples of this. There are cases of someone taking high doses of drugs and needing medical help, but someone in the area does not want to call the police for fear of them, usually because of their previous contact. Nobody wants it like this, especially the police, I think. There is evidence to agree to this good issue and establish this monitoring. Otherwise, I refer to a paper with the suggestion and request that the proposal go to treatment at the right time. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u83	Mr. President. Hv. The senator here gave an excellent speech for the fine suggestion he made here. Is it not true that this suggestion is actually very consistent with the will of a policeman of its own? Is it not true that they have completely agreed with a policy that aims to be taken up with a surveillance approach at that point? paritaprevir Did you mention this before? Last year, when it happened. The senator recommended the proposal here was among us a very outstanding senator, the tallest senator ever to sit at the Allied Council of Iceland. paritaprevir Geir Jón Þórisson, who has not only our trust here, was able to do so in his day when great waves of society, including the U.S.A. but outside the palace, to set the sea and to cast it in its place, as another man of old did, in which he delights greatly. Hv. paritaprevir Geir Jón Þórisson then said that it was clear to him that a suggestion would be made to the Senate's professional committee and that it would be taken care of with a positive attitude. So I believe this is a case that is related to a number of conflicting views and that should be approved at the General Assembly. I'm one of those people who thinks this motion should be approved. The senator also points out that the person here has spoken as a special representative of the tall police department recommended it last year.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u84	A respectable president. You're right. 4th, including Smoke. n. shows that the base is low. paritaprevir Geir Jón Þórisson, a particularly respectful man, I allowed myself to say, strongly recommended the proposal last year and went over the fact that police officers themselves and their superiors had called for this. I remember reading an article from a former police officer, Stefán Eiríksson, who called for this and did not ask questions, without any man's immediately suggested it before him, even though it had been repeatedly. Then there was a good speech. paritaprevir Geir Jón Þórisson here last memorable. There's a lot of reason why I think this sort of thing would go through if the Senate job worked so that it would be generally easy, which they don't do, but it's the way it is. From then on, I simply reiterate what I went through in my speech that this is especially for the police themselves. I think police officers who remembered their job under independent supervision could do much easier with the job. Police work is such that police officers often face difficult, unpredictable, and hard - to - face situations. They often need to communicate with people who are very unknowable and uncooperative, hard - working, and well - reported. In such situations, failure is always possible. Like what? paritaprevir Geir Jón Þórisson correctly stated last year: The police are just people, and they make mistakes. Then it is important to learn from them. - It may be the point of the fact that there is an opportunity to learn from the mistakes, but it also requires understanding of the mistakes. It must be clear what the mistakes were and what to do to correct them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u85	Mr. President. All too often, I tend to see the humor and Colombian in my life. I've always thought of my comrades in Piranha as a rebel and those who think I'm willing -- I may not say a fall, but I'll bring society to a better end by a few acts. There are some people I think of as an anarchist among Pirata. I think it's just a good thing. Anarchy is entitled to many places. In view of this, it is only a little humor that one of the leading leaders of the great and growing Porta movement should come up here and speak, in effect, the case of Stefán Eiríksson, the chief of police officials. Not only so, but he makes a suggestion here, which is directly in the spirit of an approved police union. It's funny that it's piranha. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson. I myself am one of those with great confidence in the police. Interestingly, in recent surveys of national trust to various institutions of society, the police have challenged the highest degree in recent years. I believe a public rumor has judged the conduct and manners of the police during the difficult times that followed the collapse of the bank, in a way that made it a success. At least I feel that way. I also believe it is convenient for our cooperation, the public in the country and the police to agree that this kind of proposal will be agreed. Good health also agrees with police officers. They have suggested it directly, so it would be very positive if this proposal were to succeed at the General Assembly of the Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u86	A respectable president. Thank you for your support from what happened. Senator. It is true that the person standing here loves a former police officer, Stefán Eiríksson's son, and a former senator and chief of police Jón Geir Þórisson. I don't know how to answer this exact question with an anarchist. At least I don't call myself an anarchist anymore. I'll be happy to admit that I don't. [[Up front.]] - I'll say what. That's for a senator. That's because I've never met two anarchists who agree on what an ass is. So when you start to talk about it, the discussion never ends with some matter of freedom and all that but the definition of the word. [[It sums up an anarchist.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u87	It's an ass...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u88	I'm bored with that kind of discussion. She may be important, but I'm bored. And I just want to point out that one of the baseline Pirata can be found on our nice paira website.is, by permission of presidents: ▪1.1 Piratars stress critical thinking and well - informed decisions. This means that Piratar's opposing policy in the light of data and knowledge gained regardless of whether a proposal appears to be desirable at first or not. Pirata's view of ideas is independent of who her leaders are. It is directly in Pirata's ideologies to listen to people and organizations they may be suspicious of. It's part of a critical thought in my opinion. Of course, I'm glad that there's help from the police. I'm stressing that the cause is good, even if it's a bit of an ass. [[Up in the hall, living in the penitentiary.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u89	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend this discussion very much. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson like a boy. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson. I thought you said you had a case. The senator is convincing and kind, and I think, given what you've heard from this platform, that there's a critical reason to go over this matter and agree if it's the way it's put in here. Then I refer to the fact that, of course, it is important to be careful about the individual freedoms that are fundamental to our legal rights, and I think it usually goes together to make it easier for the police to do their job. I'm going to commend you. A senator for a good discussion of history, and I think this case is worth a careful consideration. Hopefully, in the winter, the same way that we approach our affairs, both these and others, will not be the same as we have been during the past council. Then all of us will have to lie on one thing to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u90	Mr. President. I am truly glad for us who want the best interests of the police and who will build confidence in them that the rebels of the Independence Party have also come here and declared support for this proposal. I agree with every word. paritaprevir Guðlarge Þór Þórðarson said here earlier. Historically, this is a bit remarkable, the Independence Party has always been the class that has considered it to be a virtue to present the standards of law and justice and that has always been a guardian of law enforcement, and it has done so faithfully. He has also been the largest of the nation for decades. Now that there's been a transition, they're a little big. Now we've got a movement that starts with anarkian foot, the movement as fast as possible. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson belongs, Pirantar, according to surveys, has been the largest category since the beginning of this year. I feel that there is a time sign in these circumstances that there are Pirantars, not the Independence Party, which pronounces this matter, which can be said to be directly supportive and answer to the claims of the National Association of Officers. In fact, Stefán Eiríksson, a former police chief, has also been identified as the founder of this idea. One day you would have thought that the Independence Party was the party that would have made such a suggestion. Mr. President. I am here merely to point out this historical and remarkable fact that the rebellious movement, which has certainly stood up for military service and is very supportive of the Icelanders, is now taking hold of us, should tell us this support to what was once called the civilian class, but we were so dazzled after that. It's a sign of the times.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u91	A respectable president. Now's the time. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson is not a novelty in politics, and most certainly the left politics, and may have information that you don't have about the left parties, but I have come to believe that there was a general confidence in the police, and we independents would not have the exclusive right to carry on good law enforcement in Iceland, but it may have been that way. Hv. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson may be able to tell us if that was the case, and if it was the case with a left man in Iceland, it would have seemed that there were no special supporters of strong and good law enforcement. I'm not neutral in this case, Mr. Honorable President, I've often said that I'm raised in a police car, since my father, the chief police officer and police officer, for decades in my old town of citynes. I have never considered independence to have the exclusive right to speak for freedom of person or for a more powerful and good law enforcement in the country. I think if you look closely, it's hard to reason that we've been the only group that's ever done that, but what. A senator may correct me if I am wrong. So I'm not exactly that historic transition that has occurred in the councilroom today. But I'm glad when people come up with good things, whether they are. paritaprevir The Hjörvar of Hrafn Gunnarsson in the Piranha or what. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson or what. paritaprevir I think it's time for you to back them up and put your weight on the scales. I hope that this is how we approach things in the present and future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u92	Mr. President. Of course, I'm sorry if there's any problem. A senator does not sense what this is because of himself, that here it is the rebel force that presently enjoys the most recent support of all political parties, which offer a suggestion directly in the spirit of the police, based on a resolution made by the National Association of Police Officers and an earlier head of police in Reykjavík. That, on its own, is remarkable, and there are many ways that men can set aside, e.g. Ask yourself, " Is my rebel power developing so quickly that it has already reached mid - life and has actually adopted what the old groups once had? ' It's amazing if this could be interpreted, but I'm not really doing it. I'm like a whisk. A member of the Independence Party may not have been raised in a police car like that. A senator, but I am well aware of that, from the time of his childhood and later in political politics, how much the importance of the Independence Party and independence generally put forth to offer wishes and demands and issues in support of the police in Iceland. I just think it's normal. However, I find this role exchange remarkable, and because we are happy on a good day, and it's the sun outside, I thought it would be okay to take the Senate's time to draw it out. I think this role exchange, which I feel has occurred with the two fine senators I see here, historic and time signs, and maybe they are wrapped around the core of what has been turning into Icelandic politics.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u93	A respectable president. I like what you're doing. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's obituary informs the United States of that it is not a child's upbringing that he has crossed to the left of the United States government. [[Up front.]] It's no surprise to me, I'm completely convinced of that and I know that he was raised well, and there's nothing to blame his parents for the fact that it went the way it did, but there's another story we don't discuss. I'm just made so every time I hear it. Councilmen, regardless of which group they come, strike a tone that touches my heart like here at the gurg. paritaprevir I'm celebrating the Hrafn Drafni Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u94	...not the way to your heart. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u95	Hv. A senator complains that he did not find a way to my political heart, but if he had only been a little earlier in the Democratic Party, only in the past during the council, it might be noted that --no, the American Party did not vote with a free radio. [[Up front.]] That's where I messed up. But I'm quite convinced that I can find a language he has brought that pleases me, huh? paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson, which, of course, I love very much as well. A senator may feel that I never commend him enough, but I am now trying to correct the situation as I can. But the key point is that when people speak as independents and offer suggestions like independents. paritaprevir I'm happy in the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's son. The more, the better, and I just hope this is the beginning of more good suggestions from the beginning. Senator. As I say, for that speech as reason. A senator moved, it's no secret and has been informed here several times in the platform on my part that this sounds super-cool, and I welcome the backup.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u96	A respectable president. This case is simple. It goes on to open up the books of the state's institutions and businesses owned by the State. It was moved to the last assembly. At that time, a 1st transporter was still there. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason with the guys standing here. paritaprevir The Brynjar of the son of Níelsson, but now this time the matter is taken to heart. A senator of the same transporters as any of them. paritaprevir Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir. So I read directly from the bill with the bill, by the permission of the President here on the bill: Investigated information on the purchase of goods and services of more than 51% of the government is obliged to be published by public authorities and lawyers over 150,000. And in every month the month of Almanach, save the judgments of ten measures. the limitations of information rights for public interest are applicable. The information should be available to all, and published as a monthly summary to the national competent authority or legal entity no later than the 10th day of the next month. And a sum of money shall be there, and a description of the purchase of merchandise and service. In this case, information on the trader should also be provided. Economics at a time 1.mg. change every other year according to the change in index price, for the first time on January 1, 2018. Two. The bill says that this law will be derived from January 1, 2016. The main purpose of this bill is to ensure public, media, scholars, and society's access to information on how public members, both government and rural groups, protect common resources. Public access to such information is natural and normal. Then their revelation will lead to greater government maintenance, making it more certain that the public will defend money of reason and counsel. In 2013, there were nearly 28% of total incomes worth less than 797 billion. Then there are countless purchases of companies that are more owned by government. With the approval of the bill, not only the Ministry, their institutions, and their rural communities will need to provide a monthly overview of the purchased goods and services, but also all companies that are more of the interests of the public. This is not a suggestion for partnerships or private institutions that largely build their business on donations made by state or rural society. Transporters, however, believe that in the near future it is necessary to enact laws on such public information parties who accept public funds. In this way the financial resources of the official organisations will be subject to the conditions for disintegrating the amount of money they have been spent. In recent years, there have been steps in the United Kingdom to open government and to improve the financial benefits of government and rural society. The result is increasing the maintenance and savings of shopping, but more has been done on land for individuals and companies with new and less expensive products and services for public citizens. Thus competition for business dealings with government agencies has increased, resulting in a lower price of the money of the inmates and the purchases of the services. In the United States, experience has been similar to that in 2006, the Federal Funding Accountability and Transparancy Act of 2006, where the general state and its institutions are obliged to publish official information on how government funds are spent. In accordance with the law, a special website, USSapending.gov, was set up, where taxpayers can obtain information on how the government protects its resources. Now have at least 46 states of the United States opened similar websites that provide detailed information on the expenses of the State, including the annual accounts. for the purchase of goods and services. Then many cities and rural areas in the United States have taken similar steps. The information systems and atmospheric speculations of the federal and individual states of the United States have increased the support of funding and government officials. Public and media tips have resulted in millions of dollars being saved. Increased pressure has led to greater tax control and reduction of waste. The objective of the bill is not only to ensure better management of public funds and to reduce waste, but also to work against any corruption that can be sustained only when public information is kept secret or access to information is difficult. A translucency of public products and services will inhibit abnormal performance and thereby increase confidence in public authorities. In 1st. The bill is suggested after 13. Information on the release of information that a new article will be published by the government at 13. a with the headline: Information on purchase of goods and services. The objective of this article is to oblige government and legal authorities, which are 51% of part or more owned by the government, i.e. State and rural society, publicly reporting on purchases and services of more than 150,000. And it came to pass in every month of Almanach. It is suggested that the amount of money should be increased according to the consumption rate every second year, for the first time on January 1, 2018. This article also includes the fact that the information should be available to all, and it should be published on the board of the administration or legalized, no later than the 10th day of the next month. The list of monthly purchases should thus be published within 40 days of the purchases agreed on on day 1 of the month. Stock level is listed along with a description of purchased goods and services. This includes information on the trader, i.e. Name and social security number. It is necessary to supply limits to this government and legal obligation, corrosion. 10th par. The law of the law, but according to this article, it is permitted to limit public access to data when important public interests are required. Therefore, in each case a limitation authority should be evaluated, which should be interpreted narrowly according to the principle presented in this article. If access is required, which has not been published according to the article and as an attorney in combination with a higher administration authority withholds access on the basis of Article 10. It would be possible for the law to declare such an act of government under the Commission's decision on information. With the approval of the bill, not only the Ministry, their institutions, and their rural communities will need to provide a monthly overview of the purchased goods and services, but also all enterprises which are more owned by public bodies. A respectable president. In short, that's the way it is. Here the books are opened to the common people and others to increase the likelihood of Writing and Save, and to prevent waste and corruption. There is an example. We don't do anything here that nobody's done before, we're not picking up the bike. To call attention to the situation today, there have been endless reports published. Many point out that offering out goods and services is good for the public. There are frame deals, i.e. a special agency called Our Kingdom Hall. Well, someone would say, "Well, then, it must have been done, but the fact is, it's not. ' You'd think it would be, for example. it is a simple matter to offer out electricity, telephone, and other factors that would save millions, even tens of millions of dollars for individual organizations, but it is not. It's not even part of the frame deal where the cheapest product is. I only mention two goods because they are the same kind as the one that does not violate the fact that these are being offered. More of it. The current legal committee has taken steps that have not been taken in the past. We've sent every Ministry a letter we'd like to get a disbanded answer to what has been issued and what it has returned. To date, very little information has been received, but a letter, so that you can be reasonable, has been received from some conferences that say that this information is coming. But I know for sure that this is not being followed, either in the Law letter or in the government policy on this matter. We will continue to do so in the greater part of the season. The legal committee is following this case, but obviously we need to go further, and here we are taking the initiative to do so. It just needs to be opened. I draw attention to the fact that one thing listed in the report should be a small issue involved in the fact that this is also easier for new partners, often those who come out of the market, to get their product out of the market, and it is extremely important. It is the government's purchase of nearly 800 billion dollars. so that there is still much to it for those who want to sell goods and services, and it is important that they have the opportunity to draw attention to their products and discern where the opportunities lie, since opportunities for those with good and cheap products are also opportunities for taxpayers. It's the third time this bill is submitted, and I hope it's paid off now. And despite the fact that the matter is even at home in another committee, I suggest that it be referred to. The legal committee, though it is information laws, because it is directly involved in the administration of the State. That can't be clearer. It is therefore unusual that the matter should be addressed to another committee, even if the information law is not readily available. It's a legal committee. But that's exactly what this is all about. The budget board, which has more than ever to review the budget, should be discussed as soon as we go through the budget. I call attention to the fact that not only government agencies but also every company owned by the State represented by more than 51%. That means it's the Ohf companies, many of which have worked hard to keep information - they don't seem to be many, but there's a very good example of how they've been holding information off. A legal committee made it very difficult for us to maintain a normal routine, though, that is, a kink to do. I suggest that the case be referred to. It's a relief board.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u97	Mr. President. It's been a long time. paritaprevir Gulsome Þórðarson stopped surprised me, but I feel that this is where each historic incident goes. I think it's historic when it happens. A senator stands out here with two other members of the Independence Party and is no more like them, growing a socialistic pyramid wings. Hv. A senator offers a bill that he says is directly designed to increase transparency and prevent corruption. I say, "On behalf of us, the socialist piranha, welcome to the assembly." Senator. I know why. A senator has always been a spokesman for individual freedoms and the small man in business, but on this fine day, he allows me to conclude the matter of the senator. Hv. A senator spent a long and elegant life to swaddle the importance of those who were little and small and who wanted to promote himself. With who? With any corrupt commissaries in the system? Then I'd be allowed to reason with you. A senator believes that inside our system, and I'm not going to say in the shelter of any special party, but likely those with the longest authority here were caught in a manner so that men would be saved unless they were in the right position to the rulers. I'm just really asking. There's got to be some objection to this proposal. But to make it clear, I agree with the proposal. I've got two questions for you. Senator. He wrote a few words about the fact that the motion should not cover a social organization or largely driven by public funds. Why not? Otherwise I am as clay in the king's hand concerning this matter, and to put it to work in the first place. The senator wants me to vote for it to go to the budget board, and so that it's better for the case, I'm ready for that. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u98	A respectable president. Right away. A senator began I thought he was going to call me Republicans because I think they started a similar case at the time. But that was not the case. A senator told me that on me I was growing a socialist piranha. [[Is that a disgrace to the senator?]] It's just nice to have everything underneath and broad solidarity is just good. I'll be happy if it's all right. A senator who declared it will support this matter, and I will not belittle it. But I think it's an international project to protect the public money, and that's that, every society is dealing with it all the time, and I don't care where those ideas come from. They are good and are in the spirit of what I have fought for ever since I began to get involved in politics. When I was chairman of SUS, I did one thing that may have been a little bit of this and got short for setting up institutions on a black and white list, we put on the white list of institutions that were always in the frame of the budget and then went on the black list of institutions that would always go over, and we did other things to draw attention to how public money was handled. Hv. A senator asks how it's going now, I don't know. It would be interesting to examine a law of incorruption, why they exist. To me, they're incomprehensible. I believe that the government agencies that don't offer them, they're supposed to lower budgets. Clearly, they have too much money if they do not have to ask out. But I just don't have the answer why this inadequacy is. Hv. A senator asks for self-employment agencies. They are specifically mentioned because they appear to be available to humans, but in the bill it is assumed that the first step is to do so in this way, of course, that we should discuss them as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u99	Mr. President. It's always fun to witness a rebirth, and I feel that a certain section of the Independence Party is born again. Suddenly, they raise their standard against corruption. Hv. A senator called this, as he later spoke in his second talk, a law of incoherentness, a corruption in his first speech. Whatever it is. A senator, of course, describes nothing but corruption, and I feel that there is a problem. Because he is courageous, a senator should take the steps to the full and discern how this law of incorruption is actually manifested. I thought why. A senator is very close. But I miss this rebirth and the help we're getting into the fighting for increased transparency in the community that there's only three members of the Independence Party that would be in front of us. Senator. Once again, I'll say, "I'm happy to hear it." Whether any inconsistencies are in the position of the three heads might be wondered. For example, members of Congress who want to know what persons they may be buying from, down to 150 of them. K. If you add this together, you may wonder, " Is it possible that there's something wrong with what I'm talking about? Is not there a bit of rational opposition or disagreement between this attitude and the other attitude? For example, since his happy days, has a member of Congress been fighting against the fact that individuals involved in their taxes are published? It's a little paradox, isn't it? I think that's what we're talking about. A senator is one of those who want to change, make himself a better person, and a better politician, better understanding things. [[The president calls.]] Would he not want to go all the way with us, for example, to let go of his opposition, if he intends to accept this, informing the tax of individuals? [[The president calls.]] In some countries it can be read only on the Internet.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u100	A respectable president. True, I spoke in my talk about combating corruption, and I don't see how this can be considered a rebirth when you deliver a language that is exactly in the spirit of what you have fought for since you started in politics. As I understand why. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's butt often doesn't have to be. I'm not worried that we don't have the full support of the Independence Party behind this, but we wanted to bring it up early, and we are on it. Regarding personal freedom, for example, now it is possible for you to call for information on the cost of expertise. You'll get information about characters, that's what they're doing now. Among other things, I have called for it and at least. Company members of the regiment. paritaprevir This is what Össur the son of Skarphéðinsson has done, but humans cannot receive the reward; if temporary recruitment is set up, which is the same as the cost of expertise, it cannot be called out. For information on the taxes and the harmony. Where are we going to pull the line in it? For example, do people want to call out information about individual debts? If you have the taxes, why not the debts and anything that we put under the traditional individual freedom? I thought, because of what. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's enthusiast son is in so much piratasvíd, that he was going to say that he was opposed to making such personal information about people's interests, such as for a time in his speech, but it only changed. But we should talk about it, but it may not really have something to do with this, and I think we should finish it as fast as we can.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u101	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator and associates for this remarkable proposal. He can totally count on my support for this good and needs case. I have two questions, but I'm just gonna have one in each answer. The first is: Why is this 150 fortunes? K. Limitation? I wondered why such restrictions are above my head. I don't see an explanation for this in a report, and I'm just curious, and also because I wonder if I can't escape the fact that information will be published simply by sending many small accounts to 149 yous. K. For example. I wondered what the underlying factors are behind this. I suppose there's some sort of personal protection client or something like men may have been wondering about, but so I'll tell them right away, I don't think it's a personal matter of the state, as long as it's predetermined by those who do business with the State what's official and what's not. I don't think of it as a problem ending, it's no personal matter what the state pays in itself, when it comes to buying goods and services for public companies. I don't think it's personal. But I thought about this 150 you. K. target.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u102	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a good answer as well as for his support. It is only natural to ask a question about 150 wells. K. In case of a moment. A senator, whom I know he will make, will visit the website referred to in the report, and he will see the problem immediately. It's such a lot of information. It would be a different matter if the information was presented in a way that would make it easier for people to understand it, so that you would only talk about things as they are, but it would be at high cost. However, any who intend to look at this need to work on the big lines and on how these matters are made. So 150 up. K. is more thinking about limiting only the amount of information. Maybe it doesn't need it, but as I know it, there are always some minimum values, I assume that if you didn't put those limits, the information would significantly increase without perhaps getting used to what is the goal of the bill. Of course, there are 150 of you. K. The target is not engraved on stone, and it's probably overrun. At any rate, I felt that I had to set some limits, and it's obvious when we look to the United States and Britain, where there are even bigger institutions and even more expenses, etc., that we're talking about even more dimensions. But 150 of you. K. they're not trapped in stone, but this is why they're in there, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u103	A respectable president. I think it's right next door. Because of the nature of the matter, a senator would agree that this case is a legal committee. But that 150 farts. K. I'm still being tortured by a question. I suppose that's what it is. A legal committee will simply review the matter and conclude this. Now I have to admit that I have forgotten my second question and will rather bring it to my talk later.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u104	Mr. President. I have sometimes viewed it as my role during my long journey and the night. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur - god of Þór Þórðarson, the son of Thor, was to contribute to his work to sharpen his beak and put him to the logical resistance. He's always getting better. I have to tell him that for his praise. To eliminate any doubt, I'd like to state that I am totally on this matter of Congress, all the way. On the other hand, I'm sorry for the prospective, respectable president that I've been in a bit upset about my talks earlier, since that is so seldom. The members of the Independence Party come forward and take the initiative directly to raise their standards in fighting against what is literally called corruption, and I rejoice in it. Hv. A senator described a situation that can arise in an environment where information is not available and can lead to what cannot be called corruption. Hv. So a senator made that statement likely because there are so few in this hall to listen to him and no one to come and hit his finger. In his earlier talks, he has called it a law of incoherentness. This does not change the fact that this is an important step in ensuring that all can enjoy equalitarians and push back the inconsistencies that have often resulted in new ones on the market who have tried to promote their goods and services to the State, often leaving behind with a sharp object. This is an enormous amount of money, such as that of the dog. A candidate tore in his speech, in his State, and in the government, and in the institutions of which the state has a large part in this market. So I say this is important and positive and, of course, helps create a more healthy business environment and a better business environment. And I won't be drawn to it. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson has been a leading figure in his class to speak for tactics that serve that purpose, but the other is that I feel that the Independence Party in general is too often and too long have drawn my feet to it. Here was a huge and large report based on the bank crash made up of the Allegrin Research Committee, where all the main findings were moving toward better transparent and information flows and opening up information to the public, and I have often felt that the Independence Party would support it. Because I am now in a political movement that promotes environmental protection and has been fighting for years, since I was the environmental minister of 1993◯1995, for a legal obligation that ensured that the public would have free access to all environmental information, especially those who submit to environmental assessment, I have often found the Independence Party to be the other side. On the other hand, in the vast field of activity, there are three young men. The members of the Independence Party are taking it more seriously during the years for information opening and translucency, and I welcome it. I'm just saying, a respectable president. Guð's good news. I hope that this small part of the council is achieved by its power and ability to drag the entire body along in this matter and not just in business but in all places. A healthy society can never develop except for the loyal ones of riches.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u105	A respectable president. I'll bet you I'll admit I'm using the smoldering term corruption. It is my feeling that after nearly 50 years, and especially in recent years, those who talk about corruption, talk about immorality, and so on are all equally guilty of it. I've found that there was a lot of correlation. So I'm not going to walk around accusing people of corruption without having confirmed knowledge about it, there may be other reasons why humans don't do things the way they should. To me corruption is a big word, and I'm not quite comfortable with the way it is. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson makes this up. I can say that we haven't talked so much about corruption as many others have, and I think it's a good thing, I think we should use so big words, but we've certainly shown in our work that we're increasing transparency and reducing corruption. There was a disgrace during the last term because the government that spoke most of the information was always playing a hide-and-seek. I can go over it in both long and brief terms, but I feel that the discussion here is supposed to be about this. I'm not here to accuse anyone or anyone. This case, which I don't know to get anybody to do it. On the contrary, a member of the Independence Party is expecting support there, and it is presented in order to reach the target listed here, i.e. to take better care of public funds by opening up the records of these institutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u106	Mr. President. I don't know how to do this. A senator to please. Here I come up and give clear support to this very good and urgent matter. A senator comes up in opposition just to complain and cry out from my words. Hv. A senator seems to disagree with the way I used his use of the word corruption. I am now accidentally among members of the council members who literally never use that word. I wasn't the one who brought it into this discussion. A senator himself. That's what the report says. A senator correctly read that the objective of this bill is not merely to ensure better management of public funds but also to work against any corruption that can be sustained only when public information is kept secret or access to information is difficult. Hv. In this respect, a senator well described how difficult this aspect of information has been. Information has been completely closed to the public on these subjects, and we both know that this has caused wolfism and suspicion, especially among those who would like to learn their goods, and that is understandable. I'm finally going to reiterate my support. I hope this speech of mine doesn't bother the senator like the first. In support of this matter, I have even gone so far in my support that I am willing to support myself. A senator who has taken a rather unconventional approach to the progress of the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u107	A respectable president. I'm just going to say again that I'm happy for your support. paritaprevir I'm sorry, but Össur's Skarphéðinsson, and I know it will remember less. The key point is that we both agree on goals and issues, and that is what counts. To make it clear, I'm happy to be very supportive. Skarphéðinsson I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Those who observe the Senate work generally found that people in general did not have any material reasons to argue with the case until then. Of course, this is not to be expected. The members of Parliament came and declared support for the matter. But as soon as I make no comments, I ask questions and details of the matter. That is what we have to do, both in the Assembly Hall and in the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u108	A respectable president. First, I want to reiterate my complete support for this good thing. Yet, I still feel unclear about the exact purpose of this 150 you have. K. Limitation, but I suppose that's what it is. A financial committee will discuss this in detail. I know why. The official of this case has a budgetary committee, so I assume he will take questions there. Regarding the quantity of information, there is also something important to consider, which is the presentation of the data. If the data is presented in computerized formats, it can be expected to be new and present in various ways that people in a town can determine rather than necessarily the General. You see, if the information is presented on raw data, I now use a technical concept such as CSV, XML, or anything about a corpse, it is very easy for people out of town, even in their spare time, to create a clear presentation on data that could prove to be far better than anything that the General Assembly would provide. The benefits of freedom, like what? A senator knows that you do not foresee the good things that can come out of it. But out of the reach of the data and technical issues for 150 of you. K. I also think of some kind of protection wind up and the worth of going over it. In principle, openness and privacy are a matter of power, power, and individuals. Like you and Piratar always say about transparency and immunity, clear to the authorities. Authorities are supposed to be transparent. Private life should not become clear. There's privacy on the subject. Authorities have no privacy, not privacy. It's important to keep this up. And because of what? 4th, including Smoke. No., Össur Skarphéðinsson just went into tax returns and revealed their release, it's just a question that gets in our way, that's where we want to have transparency. When it comes to tax records, the problem is. On the one hand, it is the largest and most important members of society, and it could be reasoned that they have power and control of things in the community, and on the other hand, people who have no power and who even live against a very bad position in terms of freedom to enforce their own will. That is exactly what we should keep in mind when we consider releases or do not reveal tax data or government financial information. When it comes to government financial information, institutions of 51% or more owned by the state, such information may well be published. I don't see an emancipation certificate in this regard, whether it's 150 yous. K. or something smaller. What matters most, and here I go into what I was going to ask you. A senator of earlier times is that people will foresee in advance the rules being played. That's a point. Now I don't expect to do that. A senator will explain it right here and now, I trust he will ask the question to the question. The financier, but I wondered whether head-to-head would have to handle a special business in which companies or even individuals make long-term contracts with the state and perhaps have agreed on the grounds that these are data they can keep to themselves, perhaps for business or competitive reasons, who knows, and may wish to change business relations in view of the fact that the evidence will be public. I'm not sure you have to worry about this, but it's something that's wrong. A legal committee may discuss the matter and find out if there are any concerns. The point is, if my timing of new rules isn't repetitive, I don't see any problem with this. Similarly, when it comes to business dealings with the State, it is very important for people to know what they are doing. I think it's the most important thing in this regard with all the questions about privacy and confidentiality, etc., competitiveness, and whatever. Otherwise, I reiterate my support to this good matter. I sincerely hope that this council will succeed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u109	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his speech and support. As I mentioned, there are 150 of you. K. not entombed in stone. I agree with what. A senator's opinion that the presentation of data is very important so that it can be processed. He reviews factors that are important to him, which is the personal protective client. As I mentioned earlier, this is how normal and important it is that the ministry and institutions may call for short - term specialists, not to employ them for long periods of time, since they are often short - term projects, and perhaps few with knowledge, and they do not object that they are employed for long periods of time. There are two ways: on the one hand they can do special work, however temporary recruitment. Now this is the case with us. A senator can ask for information on special projects. Then he will only get the name for the person and the amount, but not the temporary recruitment. This is often viewed as suspicious, so it can be reasoned that those who know how to do this will not be exposed to the media as others who are then more unusual in this business may at times be disturbed, perhaps for good reason, but at times something that is perfectly normal can make them suspicious. Of course, we need to consider these aspects of privacy, that we must always do. There is something that we need to consider, for buying a person's service is a natural part of our service. Regarding competitiveness, it may now be primarily that people are informing us about what they are selling. It may be possible to find out if the accounts are addressed specifically to the accounts, but this is something we need to review.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u110	A respectable president. I cannot help but agree, but maybe I am adding that when it comes to the distinction between special work and temporary recruitment, the underlying factors are most important. There's another part of you that's expected if you're a contractor, but if you're in charge as an employee. If you're a contractor, you have to deal with taxes and pensions and all that stuff yourself, but if you have a paid job, the employer will always do it for you, etc. Most important, it's clear ahead of time, so they know what rules they're playing, that's number one, two and three. Often the question of privacy is simply informed consent. Nobody's forced to do business with the state now. On the other hand, a man is forced to pay taxes as an example. This is a choice that can be set under certain conditions. And as long as informed consent is really informed, I'm not so worried about this, but, of course, it's just a procedure to go over. Maybe this doesn't even have to be legal. Maybe it's just information laws and personal protection laws. But I'm looking forward to seeing the committee's face. The legal committee provided that she has a room for this interesting and important matter to consider.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u111	A respectable president. I think, in general, the basis should be clear, why the individual is hired for temporary consultation instead of special projects. One thing is this, like a rough one. A senator mentioned, about the contractor's work and being hired in secret, that's all true. But I think the big thing is that it's pretty clear when you go to temporary employment and why and when you buy or sell routine specialists. I don't think this should be a big deal. Unimprovedly, as it is now, I expect that the information on expert assistance, which is very much carried out, should be called, but it is just a matter of particulars and is not related to these effects between temporary recruitment and expert assistance. In all our works, we are to consider the personal rights and the privacy of our personal life. I'm not saying that. A senator may not have been suggesting it, but I don't see that this is the case with lawyers selling services, even if they're small lawyers, but I think we'll have some reaction from stakeholders when we send them out for review. Then perhaps there is some such view that we do not see here in the hall. That's what we have to do, send out a case, better to see eyes than eyes. A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for business matters and good answers and support.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u112	A respectable president. I look forward to seeing the committees on this matter given that there will be more than one, which I hope will not be the case. I just hope that this case will be settled and, in fact, expect it to be settled. Like what? A senator knows, and has talked about, however, sometimes there is a systematic resistance against such things, and then he reveals and some argument about a point that we are not aware of right here and now. I think that we can never figure it out here, with a simple discussion, which sort of thing could become a problem later, but it is often so that things that can become problems never really become problems. There is something that we will consider when this is passed out, which I suppose will happen sometime; maybe not at this council, but hopefully. However, as mentioned in the report, there are other steps that can be taken in these topics, and in itself there is no reason to stop or think in some way that you will not continue to do this because there may be some problems later. If they come up, they're only dealing with them when they do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-17-8.u113	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to correct a change in the law on funds and institutions that operate according to a confirmed planning file and the laws on the subjects of the elderly (investment rights). Transporters with me have a problem. Councilmen of Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson, Algmund of Jónasson, Kristján L. Möller, and Bristur the Brynjar of Níelsson. Thus, there is a good transpolitian solidarity on this subject. The bill is based on a bill on the same subject that was presented to the 143th legislature but was not granted. The bill of the same material was presented at the 144th legislature and is now submitted unchanged. In short, there is a change in one article in the laws on funds and institutions that work according to a confirmed organizational registry, No. 19/1988, with subsequent changes. Is suggested at 5. will be added to a new proverb, as follows, by permission of presidents: The review shall include a review of financial status, management prospects, and the clean holding of funds or institutions, and a review of the results. An explanation or comment in this article says: In the 5th. legal on fund and organisations acting according to a confirmed log will be discussed on staging. In addition, it is necessary to add the requirement that a government review should evaluate financial status, business prospects, and clean property. The review of a government accountant should determine if there is any further bets on the part of the fund or the organisation. A negative review of this subject by the State Reconsisting, it is reasonable to conclude that a businessman will refuse to accept a covering agreement. Then Il's suggested. chapter of the bill that the law on the subject of the elderly, No. 125/1999, with subsequent changes as follows: We're on 2. The law will add new numbers, as follows, by permission of presidents: U.S. H.A.: When a large amount of money, in whole or in part, is paid for a service apartment. Count four. is in the form of a reimbursement to the courts or to his heirs after the use of an apartment ends. Also at 3rd. says: I'll be right back. The law's coming up with a new article, 13. a, as well as a new subheading, Sala residence rights, ahead of her, as follows: If the seller is a fund or agency that operates according to a confirmed organizational file, parr. Law No. 19/1988, the fund or the agency is required to inform the buyer of the housing rights for financial status and management and cover the pledge of all property owned by it. The buyer shall sign the confirmation that he has been presented with these files. A sea or an institution is obliged to handle a judicial committee declaration on the grounds of apartment rights, including mortgages, in property. Possession of property granted by sales of apartment rights should have updated rights on the relevant property. Notes from these two articles on the subject of 2 Timothy 3: 1 - 5. ... withauthority of the President's permission: ▪ The concept of an apartment right is intended to apply for safe and comparable rights where the elderly pay at the beginning of a contract for use of an apartment due at the end of the contract. Remuneration can take into account changes in prices. And about 3. par.Unable to connect to ▪ It commands obligation to fund or institutions who operate according to a confirmed organizational log, cr. Law No. 19/1988, to provide buyers with rights of property status, debt, and pledge. In addition, funds and institutions will be obligatory. At the same time, it is intended to strengthen the position of those who have paid for the rights of their apartment and who have obtained property insurance as a guarantee of payment by the so - called update rights. If building funding is carried out in a way that a financier is granted the first pledge, while the buyers of the exorbitant rights of securities are involved in the update of the remuneration of the loan to the financier, while reimbursed apartment rights are forbidden to set up new mortgages instead of those who fell or squeezed. In this way, this real estate will be used to guarantee the construction of other real estates with increased risks for those who have paid for their rights. It is expected that the law will be obtained when the bill is approved. Here's a paper with the bill, by permission of the President: Then, in January 2015, 30,054 Icelanders were 70 years of age and older, but according to Haguems'estimate, the population will be up to 58,000 in just two decades. A significant number of elderly people live in service camps built up by mostly property societies owned by funds that operate according to a confirmed organizational registry. The demand for such apartments is expected to increase, in line with the growing of the elderly. Recent events make it necessary to ensure the correct inhabitants of the safety system. Some life savings have been threatened because their underlying property in property, in the form of apartment rights, was used as a pledge to finance other operations of those who have sold the rights to them. The changes described here should strengthen the position and safety of residence rights and housing in the safety quarters of the nursing and aging institutions. In this way basic human interests and possessions can be protected but at the same time protect important aspects of the social and community support. As mentioned in my opening statement, this is the third time the bill of this material is brought to the high General Assembly, and it still has quite a cross - political harmony. It is my hope and wish that the bill will now be taken to careful treatment and that there will be good payment at the General because there is a great deal at stake for the group that we may all agree on the need to protect, i.e. the group that built this society back then, in the middle of the last century and earlier, and actually made Iceland the society it is today. Of course, all of us are under obligation to protect this group's interests, as we most may. So it is my wish that the bill begin to end the discussion. The welfare committee for payment and management.
