ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u1	Borist has received a letter from the chairman of the United States Parliament's Council of the United States to the Þorvarðardóttir Þorphindóttir, the 1st Reserve of the Union's Art of Norway. "Can't stand up for the Guðbjartur of the Godful son of Hannesson, the fifth. Witchest. "For the next time. Therefore, he has requested that Hordk Hörður the son of Ríkharðsson take his place today in the General Assembly. He's 2nd Special Agent on the Group's list in the district. At the request of the U.S. president of the Generals, the government has assembled and published a bill for Hörður Ríkharðsson son. At the same time, a board of administrations and monitoring has been arranged to discuss the stock market.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u2	V.E.G. President. As mentioned in the case of the highest. Presidents have gathered for a meeting this afternoon. At the meeting, the meeting investigated the opening letter of Hörður Ríkharðsson, 2nd General of the United States of Iceland, in the northwestern district. No comments were made to the campaign, and the committee is united in recommending its approval.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u3	The Commission and monitoring committee recommends the approval of the approved convention and considered it approved without a vote if no protests are moved. Since Ríkharðsson's son has not previously taken his place in the General Assembly, he must sign his pledge to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u4	Under Ríkharðsson's son, he has signed a solemn pledge to the Constitution and is welcomed to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u5	Mr. President. The minister of education, Illugi Gunnarsson, continues the incorrigibly impregnable path of changing the school system in the country as he would like to be discussed. He does not speak to the council or directly to those involved. He reduces colleges as we know without conversation. He's still at the same hay-horn in cohesion, e.g. of Eyjafjörður and from outside the Eyjafjörður. We know his decision to restrict people's access to high school, he did not discuss with us, his teaching methods have been changed, and now his last intention, the Institute for Education, the Institute of Education, is to submit a special test, and it is still without discussion with anyone. With regard to the test for oral use, there are very many questions left. It's the best thing to remind a man when only the chosen could go to school. It's gone back to old times. What and for whom should these dosing tests be, and what should they say? For example, most students do not have a problem with higher education, and most students can choose both the studies and the ways they choose. That is why you must think that this audition is mainly designed to help the literature schools that so far have such a flasher when it comes to choosing the students with the highest grades. I read somewhere that this was a bit of effort to solve the luxury problems of a few schools, so I agree. One more trip, it'll take the highest. Educator of Illugi Gunnarsson, Polish of passing the council not only with decisions about school affairs but with disregarding the school community. What's he afraid of? Political discussion of education? Does he not tolerate any professional discussion at the council or in the school community? It's terrible to be stuck with a minister who ignores democratic discussions and decision making on such important matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u6	V.E.G. President. I'm here to discuss economic control. You may argue that in the past decade, we have not been sufficiently careful when light began to blink in the economic surge to face the situation then. At the same time as we regularly and openly address the General Assembly on the economic issues, it is very important and positive that the media take them organized for and fulfill their role in providing resources and enlightenment, thus giving everyone the opportunity to understand evolution. Many of the psychics are doing a pretty good job in this role. Today, in the News magazine's follow-up, the market and the economic status and economic outlooks that exist. It summarises the factors that indicate that the economy is overheating that there is no new information but a summary that all uses to increase economic growth, job development, future investments and the workforce, the potential lack of labor for construction projects and resources to cope with the increase in tourism. These are the practical ones we tend to look at when we appreciate the fluctuation in the economy. I've, a respectable president, talked here about increasing the interaction between money policy and financial policy. Law bill at the top. The secretary for public finance is in line for that future view, and this accords with financial policies. In this context, it is in my mind to create conditions for less interest in employment and home. Part of it is to disassociate the growth form of home life when they invest in housing called insurance. A respectable president. The debt side of the households is not to be financed. It can't happen, not this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u7	A respectable president. Last night I had the opportunity to attend a large meeting of young people in which young officers introduced their activities. What I found interesting and found to be relevant here at the Hall is the concern I sensed in the young people there; for the future in Iceland, for the fact that competitive jobs will be offered here, the worry that follows when we see news in the media about the rising unemployment of the long - term college and land conditions and concerns that result from the lack of living levels being comparable here from studies in neighboring countries. This program often refers to agriculture and fishing as a basic way of doing things for the people. But no matter how well they work, in the predictable future, neither of them will have high - paying jobs. The growth in tourism is largely in poorly paid jobs. Even if we choose to bet all we can on a grand scale for the rest of our lives, we will not find well - paying jobs there for our young people. Therefore, I think it is our most important project at the General Assembly to join in the parish policy of knowledge in the country, to welcome foreign pioneers, to open up our country of knowledge and to change tax systems and systems, in support of knowledge. And instead of engaging in random tax reductions, we should cut down insurance so as to help companies increase the number of people and support the knowledge industry. That's how you could count it for a long time. We should help our education system continue to support the pioneers, but if it is not damaged, as is now planned for a minister of education, by turning it into a highway for those who were the best in education.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u8	A respectable president. Events in the last few days in the affairs of Reykjavík, Germany, when most of Reykjavík decided on one occasion to put a purchase tank in Israel, have made me think about the limits of government authority. The requirement is for both countries and communities in the Constitution of the land and the general law, with a clear definition of the authority of these institutions of the State. The city of Reykjavík agreed to this, and as a result, when more part of the city began to interfere with the foreign affairs of Iceland, the result was disastrous, causing Icelandic goods to be thrown out of the shelves of commerce, such as. correspondent in the United States Icelandic beer hit it, but it wasn't until the client's ban started biting on Reykjavíkurburg himself that there was a change of policy and that a ball was thrown up that it might be possible that a more part of Reykjavíkurburg would withdraw the proposal. I do not intend to evaluate whether the mayor has been guilty of a misinformation in a Castis party, but the media has exposed him to a particular time of e - mail that was being sent to the media that reported that the hotel that was raised on the Globe would be in danger if the Prohibition was not to be retracted. [[Up front.]] [[How much did the embargos have to do with Iceland?]] I have very little peace to speak to left men in this chamber. [[Up front.]] This is evidently a sensitive chord, but politics is not a joke show or a scene. Governments are serious, and politics can be expensive and expensive in this case. [[The president calls.]] [[Foreground on: Yes...]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u9	V.E.G. President. I'm going to start by saying something. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson, a son of Thor, says that it is important to replace the growth shapes of the home with which we invest in housing called insurance. But there were other things I was going to talk about today because I want to draw attention to the opening of the website today called I'm Unik. It is a project designed to provide educational material for some individuals with the goal of increasing understanding in the community and how it can appear in many different forms on an individual basis. The Web site offers an opportunity to create an individual educational material that is available to individuals and their caregivers. They can gather information into a small book or into an electronic form that can be distributed to schools, workmates, relatives, and friends. The Web site is no doubt a great improvement for some individuals and their caregivers. It is now that much of the community's understanding of what a person is and how it is displayed in different forms of each person. It can be a real challenge for a person and his family to constantly explain how someone appears. Being able to deliver a small book or spread information, even electronically, may reduce stress. If stress and harassment decrease, they are likely to have a positive effect on the person's well - being, and that is what really matters in this context. All of us want to pursue a better life - style. Some extremes are very broad and varied, and symptoms can be very mild in appearance. I'd like to encourage those interested in the project to go on the page. I'm very, very, very interested. The website takes off at 0800 hours. Eighteen o'clock today. I want to welcome this initiative that has finally become reality, and I believe it will benefit a lot of individuals.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u10	Mr. President. I'm concerned about the tourism services and the development of it in this country, and the lack of hope. Governments for the seminary. In a short period of time, travel has become proud of all the features that make us currency and larger than both the fishing and the industrial industry in this regard. The response of the government to these rapid growth has been unsatisfying. It's like they don't want to learn from experience. We are just letting go of the greatest problem after the collapse of the banking system, which allowed us to grow far above our heads, and we are burned by experience in the construction and fall of fur farming and fish farming in the past. We are now looking at the growth of tourism, thus leading to major changes in society and economy. True, there are a lot of work done by tourism companies, but production is not enough here and it has been shown that this is why we are unable to prepare for a pay raise. The majority of new jobs are in the tourism industry and their lack of respect, so the problem of production is not solved with that added and mostly low - paying jobs. The investment in tourism is high, hotels rising all over the country, but that investment is not calculated in corporate investments in economic institutions for budget management. In the years that come, a number of tourists may be affected by many who spend the hotel room. One of these is the location of the crown that is getting stronger these days. In addition to the lack of policy, analysis and planning, there is a cry on the part of the government and the increase in the work environment that other sectors cannot compete for. If things go wrong, a respectable president, the public will be willing to pay the cost and the government will have to go to the point that their neglect in the seminary may cost us dearly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u11	Mr. President. You're right next door. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir that politics is a serious cause of death in some cases. They mean it when children fall on the western bank or in Gaza, when one of the world's most powerful forces attacks it regularly, or robs a country of their parents in the occupied areas. Also, buying Reykjavíkurburg is an informative teaching that is not in its domain, and it is out of control by the city's wanting to set moral standards for its purchase. I was going to discuss here only, a respectable president, otherwise the odd thing that happened during the days when two Foreign Ministers had completed a customs agreement with the European Union without so much talking to farmers one word, however, the contract has a serious problem with the workforce at least three breeds. This, of course, is a very strange thing to do. Although it may be said that there is an opener of exports, other articles are the ones that will primarily enjoy it as sheep and milk production, i.e. Lambs and skis, which may be some of the practical possibilities of increasing exports. But this is a heavy blow to beef production, for example, and it can only be seen to be extracting much of it by this, it's just government policy that it is produced abroad. The same is true of pig farmers and chicken farmers; pig farmers are recovering from a very costly strike. Both of these articles take on increased demand for animal resources, but they need to do so without any support from the governments here, and they are to compete with articles that receive similar support in foreign lands. I think it's a really weird thing to do, and it needs to be reviewed. I am amazed that this would be done before a collective domestic agreement would be taken into account, based on the working conditions of the article. [[The president calls.]] I encourage the General Work Board to settle into this matter. [[The president calls.]] I have a feeling that there may be little time to lose, otherwise this could have serious negative consequences on farmers'decisions that could even interfere in weeks and months. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u12	A respectable president. I'm especially glad that a so-called SALEK group took up the job. SECURK represents the Work Programme on pay information and the economic premiums of collective labour agreements, and includes the main members of the labour market. Targets for the discovery include to prevent the coming strikes and to achieve lasting reconciliation in the labour market. Economic stability is the basis for improved biographies in Iceland. Since May, inflation symptoms have been observed. We know about the effects on prices, products and services, as well as interest, including housing bars and other loans that the public has taken. We must ask: What will happen to the raises in May? Do they burn up or give back lasting purchases, as should all matter? For the employee, the power of riches must be the main factor. Then I want to appeal to those who are now talking about contracts and trying to learn a lesson from the experience. In other countries there has been a long tradition for the preparation of collective agreements and communication between paymen, professionals, and governments that can be learned. There, men have developed a highly disciplined practice and are considered to be the key to making collective agreements that support economic stability and social goals. Individual groups may have received more than was suggested in spring, but this cannot be justified in throwing reason overboard. What matters most to us is greater wealth and low prices.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u13	A respectable president. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir Elín Hirst. Stability is essential for a improved standard of living, but it's as if we can't remember it anymore than for about 20 years, we've forgotten it again. [[Up front.]] Hv. A senator mentioned here is now the same age as me and he remembers that when we were younger, there were no more strikes. Remuneration was very high, about a dozen percent that did not result in the public. Here came good men who have fallen away, as did Einar the Oddur of Kristjánsson, and Guðmundurjaki who explained to the people that it would not work out. And why not? Because it's not going to work, and nobody's making any money from this arrangement. Everybody says we have to go to the North American model, but we're far from it. We're going as far away from it as possible. I think there are about 200 contracts in Iceland, in Sweden there are eight, Sweden, and there are eight million. The work force in the North countries is a very simple procedure, whether in Norway, Denmark, or Sweden. They start with exports, evaluate how much space they need, and then in other areas, including in the public sector. What a sin that would be after all that has happened, after all the sacrifices that the Icelandic nation has made, if we pursue a course of instability and extreme inflation! It would be very scary, but there is a number of evidence that indicates that we are on that path now. So much is certain we're very far from the North American model that men are talking about. I hope we have the wisdom to turn away from the path we are now and we need to do it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u14	President. I would like to make mention of the news that has taken place in various business deals. I think it's very important to bear in mind that the way in which she shops in New York must be her own way, that's just the way it is. Happily, we have been blessed here at the General Assembly to agree on a resolution concerning Palestine and Israel, and it must be somewhat strange, though the proposal adopted by the mayor was ill - prepared in order to make it not clear enough as to where they were going to buy goods. It's just that way. What if those who are in the countryside for Mosfellsville or some other community are going to stop buying wares from Russia or China? Will the whole government become involved in this and say that the local community has no right to shape its shopping policy itself? Unfortunately, this situation has gone wrong, but I feel very bad when we begin to compare it to the Nazi community or something like that. I think we are far beyond normal discussions about these matters. You are not supposed to give in to the pressure of the superpowers or the details on how you act. [[The president calls.]] I suggest we look at the General's shopping policy and see if we should buy anything from China.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u15	V.E.G. President. I'm going to continue my coverage of a recent agreement with the European Union on agrienvironment schemes. There seem to be some misunderstandings in what this contract involves. First of all, it does not take effect tomorrow or the other. First, adjustment takes place before the contract takes effect. Second, it is the most sensitive article for import, i.e. The number of the contracts is slightly lower than the import of this product in the previous year. The same is true of beef. So these articles are not being attacked and destroyed. However, there is another matter and an entirely on top of the rights mentioned in the Sermon on the Mount. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, here at the end of the day. The job committee needs to take this matter carefully and carefully review it. There is also time for presentation of the language that I think is essential. On the one hand, we need to use that time until the contract takes effect to make the progress so that the recovery that will be done by the contract will be fully due to consumers. The contract is to improve the benefit of consumers and farmers, I believe that it can be gained by both parties. Therefore, the time left before the contract takes effect is needed. They need to promote competitive surveillance and the tools man has to observe that the price of these products will be the way it is expected after customs are lifted.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u16	President. By the end of this week, world leaders sign 17 new evolutionary goals to 15 years of age. These goals will take place at the UN General Assembly in New York City. The age - old goals that we witnessed during the turn of the century have proved that the combined efforts of the nations in the fight against poverty and inequities bring great results and truly change the world for the better. There were only eight goals, but the goals that we now see are larger. There are 17 of them, and the sub targets are 169 and are actually taking on much more factors than we have ever seen. World leaders are trying to get a parallel view of what is laid out for mankind in this challenging and new century to achieve world peace, in order to achieve equal sex, to eliminate the inequities and the other year of human misery. In these lists, aims to destroy global poverty, eliminate global hunger, increase gender equality, ensures education for all, ensures sustainable energy, ensures global protection, etc. I believe, a more dignified president, that we need to take the lead in considering these goals best in the terms of the General Assembly and should form well in addition to a foreign matter committee on the welfare committee, the employment committee, the financial committee and the environment and transport committee. This goal of world leaders is to be common to all of us. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u17	A respectable president. I would like to discuss the activities of the council, and more specifically, I suggest that a Parliamentary Committee meets. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] There are many things to be done in the General Assembly, but there is no lack of ideas to improve. There is a lack of discussions, some of which have been introduced. Some of them are political, but they may be able to make a great improvement in the job. For example, the concept of small changes is that any change in form was accompanied by a change in origin. What if the changes were automatically made to the references? What if the content of the landscapes was published in computerized formats? Then you might ask: What if the committees were normally open? What if the president had elected more part of the council? I'd like to state that I believe a seated president would be relieved to obtain such a commission. This would make it easier for him to resist the pressure of the government, and he would not have to be under the authority of the government when the heat of the council grows that we all know he will. What if members of Congress came first in the program? There are a number of subjects that can be discussed. There's no lack of ideas, and I think it's been a long time for a Senate committee to come together and discuss the many ideas presented here and those that will probably be born in such a process.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u18	A respectable president. Like most people, I was very happy to learn last Saturday that the government was going to provide 2 billion dollars. for refugees in the next two years. As a Icelander, I was very proud of this decision, which is also completely consistent with what the public has been calling after the last few weeks. One thing that I believe is vital to consider that in the fast but careful planning needed to be caught by refugees is informing children and young people about what lies ahead. So I challenge the educational authorities to have a premeditated approach to the entire school of the country to make a presentation of why these people's positions are as they are, in fact, the importance of showing understanding and concern to the refugees, especially to the children. Our children are our future and if they are not well, we are not feeling well. This is true of all and especially of those who have faced great threats and have been forced to flee their homes in search of a future for their children. No one has overlooked the fact that the vast majority of the people are rewarded with welcoming refugees. Yet, no one has overlooked the fact that there are voices that foster fear, suspicion, and even hatred for these humble people. The effect these voices can have, especially on young ones, is certainly not to be underestimated. We need to act. Of course, despite the pleasant news last Saturday, we must not forget that there are also people who have limited resources here. Poor children are too many. The poor and the desperate do not enjoy the full human rights and the older citizens feel that they are safe. There is enough money in our good country, but it is a mistake, and that has always been the case. In Iceland no one should have to suffer a lack, either native or immigrant.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u19	A respectable president. I've come here to commend the advance group for completing the customs convention at the time of Dr. Össur's Skarphéðinsson and the Federal Government and the VG of the European Union. For consumers, of course, this is a major progress, but it is also for agriculture. I'm glad that the advance party has moved so close to us in the United States on the viewpoints of this important class. What have we been trying to say in this regard? We've been talking about increased freedom in trade with agricultural goods, and we've said that there's a lower price value for consumers, but also that there's an advantage for the agriculture in the vast European markets that they have infested, and there's been a problem for agriculture and parishion tools to make up with the scurvyness of their lack of access. It is a pleasure to hear now the Minister of the Future Party speaks for these views, for the parishioners into which agriculture enters the European market, and for the importance of making easy access to them by means of skis and lamb. We have also said that other views apply when it comes to the white meat, which is not the traditional Icelandic household that needs to be protected, that is more industrial production, and that should allow more competition. How happy we are that the advance party is also taking steps to increase the competition of white meat! I don't think the traditional Icelandic family home has to worry about that step. But I call for the next step to be taken, that the Ministers of the Agency follow up on this by asking again for further mutual tolliers on the European markets. While we have not become members of the European Union, which, of course, would be the easiest way to expand the agricultural sector into that market, it is important that we do not leave our territory stopped but attend more parishes for European agriculture. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u20	A respectable president. The point of this discussion is that there is now a number of issues in a policy run by the current government in the field of health, which is merely controversial and we have seen the most crystalline in the matter of bringing about a woman with hepatitis C to court that she could receive the best available medicine. She has been rejected by the Icelandic government, that she can receive medicines that can cure her, as well as others in that group. We have other examples. We have examples of how many older citizens can receive medicines that can prevent premature blindness. That is the choice and rejection of who receive and who are directly left behind. In my opinion, this is an extremely unscrupulous course, and we in the United States have strongly objected to it because the only thing that happens there is that the problem is moving somewhere else, and the health costs are coming out elsewhere. Instead of being able to stay home longer, e.g. Older people who are put in the problem, apart from losing quality of life, will also be improved by the medical system because of blindness, for example. A respectable president. V.E.G. A minister then shows up in the media and argues that the financial borders need to be protected, i.e. that humans cannot bend it in such cases. During the last term, we were faced with the problem that we were going quite far every year on a so-called S-labelled drug, i.e. medicines used for medicine, important drugs, many of which are very expensive. But it is simply so that when someone needs an emergency service or someone needs medication that can improve his quality of life, let alone save his life, they are provided. That is why we always viewed this feature as having a certain flexibility. The present government has decided to have it differently. It stands on a point and sticks the one that stands in the law, regardless of the quality of life and the lives of people. This is a policy I don't consider acceptable. Besides, as we have seen, this cost shows up elsewhere, so the government is not saving it. We have the S-labelled medicinal products in the special budget, so we have the medicine doctors specialized in the budget while the rest of the medical profession's branches are in a larger haulia and we don't see the fluctuations as clearly as here. We also have financial precedents that allow us to tolerate the uncertainty of a particular legal body, even hundreds of millions of dollars. It's in reimbursement for film making. Why not in this case? A respectable president. We too need to look to the future. We are seeing vast changes in medical fields, where medicine and medicine are becoming much more powerful than they are also costly, we know it, and we realize it. What, though, will we do in the future when more and better medications begin to come? So, are we gonna say no, we're just gonna stick to old school? We need to think for a long time, and we have to assume that we can introduce animals here, an expensive drug that can save lives. That's what it's all about, and there has to be a flexibility in the system, and we need to work on it here in these walls. If we are going to run secular health care, we need to answer certain questions, first of all: Are we willing to make specific sacrifices for that purpose? That means we need to look at clinical counseling rather than at the financial frame, and we need to realize that into the financial frame, we need to be flexible, which is based on clinical judgement, i.e. Medical evaluation. In this case no medical evaluation is required. So I want to ask the highest. Minister if it is possible to change this, bring a certain flexibility into the funding of these drugs so that we can start providing a world-class health service. If we want to provide world-class health care, we will not do as I have been here to describe.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u21	A respectable president. The Icelandic health system is facing many challenges as well as the health systems of other nations. One of the big cases here in Iceland as well as in most parts of the world is the growing supply of new and highly expensive biological drugs. It has been observed that such medicines provide patients with the hope of curative or curative diseases that were once difficult or even impossible to treat, some of which are so expensive that it is almost impossible, even for the richest nations, to take them into general use. When this requirement is presented in the discussion with a minister, it provides an individual medication that costs about 10 million. K. it is not to be taken into account that it is not a Minister's job to provide an individual medication or that there may be about a thousand patients who are entitled to this particular drug. In order to identify the context, this year's budget is expected to be less than 6.5 billion. the financial rights of all S-labelled medicinal products. Although all of this budget was available for all patients considered to have hepatitis C, there was no record of this year's budget. This shows the need to set priorities within the budget and give them the priorities of the most ill. This will do all of our neighboring nations and our priorities here in Iceland are based on professional judgements according to law and order. But like other nations, we can sense how it becomes increasingly difficult to meet people's expectations and rights because of these new drugs in the budget set up. All countries, small and large, are increasingly having difficulty in ensuring access to new and expensive drugs and implementing programs for their use within financial resources. The World Health Organization, the Council of Europe, and other international groups have recently tried to map the problem and what measures will be most effective. In general, international cooperation on solutions is encouraged, and it is evident that a small country such as Iceland does not have much that is thought to be necessary in larger countries. Because of this, I have thought, among other things, that it would be necessary to cooperate with neighboring nations and other nations on pharmaceutical cooperation. My proposal that the northern nations form formal cooperation because of the new and expensive drugs that are more likely to weigh the health systems of the countries is to be considered in the field of Norwegian Health Ministers, and I have repeatedly taken matters up with my colleagues. I can see that cooperation in this field can take into account access to new and expensive drugs, prices and contracts for prices, payment, shopping parties, etc. These issues were also discussed with the initiative by the minister of the Danish at a meeting of the Norwegian Minister on September 9, Copenhagen, where it was concluded to promote the cooperation of these countries. I have also declared from this platform that it is necessary to change the laws on public shopping in order to enable us to do this. Besides, it's not just about the price of medication, it's about priorities. That's the way it is. A senator who raised this discussion, that Northern surgeons meet in 2013 to discuss the priorities of the North American economy, so this discussion is not confined to Iceland. That year, a work team was set up that came to the conclusion of late in the fall of 2013, and on that basis it was only continued. The northern surgeons found it again last year, and they took it a little further, and now, four or five days ago, North American surgeons met at a meeting in Oslo, where our surgeon, Birgir Jakobsson, in Iceland, went to discuss this matter. Finland, Sweden, Norway, has all arranged advice within their ranks to manage priorities while in Iceland and Denmark. Norway has set its top goal, there's a lot of people working to find a way to set priorities between diseases, between patients in ways other than the rest of the countries, and I'll be sure to admit that this approach is unattainable to me. She was tested in Sweden before the turn of the century, and Swedes gave up on her. But I'm calling it here because it's not a problem with Iceland or any government at any given time. This is the common theme of most nations, and fortunately our health workers in the North countries are discussing the potential cooperation and approach to better working in this category, but the North countries have been able to do their own work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u22	V.E.G. President. This is a matter of discussion. In the left movement, a green supply highlights a powerful health and welfare service, which is funded by tax and operating on a public foundation, where everyone enjoys equality. Therefore, regardless of the economy, the situation, or the location, everyone should have access to health care and medical products at all times. The absolute bioavailability of S-labelled medicinal products must be dependent on the physician's professional judgement and not on the individual patient's resources or on the number of medicines required. It is no secret, however, that the cost of medicinal products is one of the most expensive measures in modern health care systems, especially in the pursuit of new and expensive drugs. International pharmacists have come to the fore in today's welfare systems. A shocking example of this was found in the world news last night, where relatively simple but life - threatening drugs, which included acutely ill AIDS patients, were to be raised at a price of 5,000 percent when new investors acquired the company. This experience gives us the optimism of thinking that the free solution to the pharmaceutical matter is clear. As a community, we must look for ways to strengthen our position, e.g. by looking for cooperation with the Norwegian countries on a common purchase. I'm glad to hear that. Minister will speak for it. At the same time, it must be possible to resume government production. There is no need to spend money importing all the cheapest mixtures or drugs, and the space produced there can be used and destroyed by more complex and expensive drugs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u23	A respectable president. I'm celebrating, I think it's very important. I think that one of the biggest issues facing the Icelandic health system and in other health systems is simply the location of a new drug when it comes to recording. The target can be very high, and it will be very expensive, or it can be very repetitive and taken in at a very high level when it comes to accepting new medicines. I understand, I'm not an expert in this field, that in the past, the policy in the North countries has generally been to produce new drugs in the Icelandic medical system, but in the wake of the collapse it has been necessary to bring in the sails, to cut in pieces, unfortunately, and in the case of the United States health system, the British situation has become more backward, more conservative, but the British enjoys having a very viable pharmaceutical industry. So they can fill up the gap, make up for the recovery of the domestic drug industry that we do not have. Unfortunately - and maybe we're running a little bumpy right now - we'll sit on the far side when it comes to acknowledging the use of new drugs. A recent example of a new drug for hepatitis C is a shocking example of this. There we have a drug accepted by all our neighbors, the World Health Organization has said it is a necessary drug, but we do not take it out of a very tight financial frame. Then I'd like to say one thing: It's certainly expensive, but many drugs are expensive, very many drugs are expensive, but like the highest. There are always plans for the use of such an animal drug by a minister, and there is a way out of the way to say that someone is saying that there is supposed to be a cure for every thousand at once with this product, rather than a long-term plan. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u24	A respectable president. I appreciate the advisor for the discussion. It was time for this discussion about the S-labelled medication, because we all know what they can do for those who need to use it. This has been about medicine erections and pressures; here we also need to discuss moral questions, etc. That's for sure. Here, I'm indicating a fairly clear understanding. We are all in a similar position regarding these matters. Thank you very much. For a clear and clear view, Kristján minister, Þór Júlíusson, for a clear and clear answer. I can agree with the vision he has. Of course, we need to be in the same league with other northern nations in these matters. Of course, I say. Why should we be picking up the bike here, about 320 of you. a man? This is a very large budget in each year's budget. I'm here to take this opportunity because these drug issues are being discussed in a special discussion and mentioned that a centennial decrease in budget for 2016 is not due to surgery or that we are reducing the use of S-marked drugs. It is primarily because there is a favorable footprint for the euro, so that once and for all time, the misunderstanding is not continued that we are shrinking into budgets from year to year. I hope the cooperation in the North countries will continue and be a success for us as a nation. I shall not be able to participate in changing the public shopping law in order for this reality to become a reality that we can start to buy less important medicines. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u25	A respectable president. When asked, it is clear that the taxpayers believe that the health - care system should have first priority in the use of taxes. Whatever your age, class, class, class, whatever. This is very clear. However, the prerequisite order of the health system is probably one of the most difficult subjects in politics, for while money is easily viewed as a single luxury that can easily be sacrificed for human life, the fact remains that money is needed to save lives. I'm delighted to learn that cooperation in the North countries could increase access to expensive drugs, that's very good to hear, and that I'm glad to hear that these matters are handled well, at least long-term. But like a dog. paritaprevir Steingrímsson Steingmsson mentioned it is important to have a plan on how to use tax money, especially when it comes to very expensive drugs. Drugs can be superabundant animals. They can be the expensive thing when you have to ask yourself, " Am I saving more lives by using my money differently? ' To a large extent, I believe, a professional question which I don't think is going to be settled here, if I'm to say exactly as it is. That's why I'm glad that cooperation in the North countries should be able to increase access to these expensive drugs. I have to mention, though, that when a person is infected with a disease such as hepatitis C, it seems rather specific and completely appropriate to me and that there is a particular need to be taken into consideration and taken out of parentheses. If the State is responsible for someone's developing such a serious illness, I naturally believe that the State will repair that damage and respond by showing special insight in their specific cases. Other than that, I just hope and trust in the highest. Ministers will do a good job on these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u26	President. I believe that the problem we're talking about right now won't be leaving us soon because the trend is that new drugs, amazing drugs, e.g. like this medicine for hepatitis C, which I think is very special in this way so that it can cure the patient. Usually, medication does not cure a patient. Usually, people need to take medication all the time. Because there is much improvement in drug production, the technology used in these materials is very expensive, so we will face it. That is why we need to think about the health cost somewhat different from what we have so far. The case must be taken into account at the cost of the patient's illness or exposure to the product. We can both calculate the cost, the community, and the cost of the individual. For years, we have used medicines that were much expensive 10 to 15 years ago or more that have become less expensive today. For example, they have made it possible for arthritis patients, who were more and less from work because of their illness, to return to work. It was expensive, but it changed the lives of those people. It also changed that instead of the people beingies, so to speak, because they could not win them, these people can now work in the community because of the drugs. It's supposed to be a celebration, and of course you're celebrating all cooperation with the North countries, but we still have to position ourselves firmly in that cooperation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u27	V.E.G. President. In times past, we Icelanders are often very quick to feel compassion, they show a number of cases, and now our last attitude toward refugees'problems. Many have expressed a willingness to share in helping people for a better life. The same applies to our fellow Israelites who have problems of any kind. We look at the person and would like to give him a hand. We suffer injustice and unfairness, and at times we become emotionally overwhelmed during the discussion. That is why it is so important that there are rules or procedures where appropriate. People who have very difficult and serious medical conditions often need medicines that are very expensive, so-called S-labelled medicines. Hospital professionals are best struck to determine the stage of the disease and the treatment and medicinal product appropriate for it. People receive medications and services according to this analysis, but never by the means of their disease. It is not outside to tell or judge, although in some cases that result may be painful and in the opinion of those who are unfair, as recent examples have been. We face the challenge, as do many other nations, that the cost of medication is far greater than we have money to pay. Hence, priorities need to be established and an assessment of where the need is greatest. Hence, the civilian's questions about the proportion of the budget for each year are raised by a health - care provider. That certainly is a painful discussion, for in our heart we want all to receive the appropriate cure and treatment for their suffering.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u28	Mr. President. What I find important in this relationship is that regardless of what we feel we can afford at any time to spend a lot of money on medication, it must not seem as random as when a new drug is being used or how many people get some medicines. Then I mean randomly in that it depends on financial decisions, even individual institutions, whether to receive medication or how many receive drugs, drugs that could truly improve people's life and health or how long to wait for it. I don't know exactly how this is being done in detail, but you wonder whether it would be necessary to come into this case of some sort of strong professional evaluation and even some cohesive and decision-making agent who had the stronger authority to evaluate this and make decisions, as much as a cruise board does about cures abroad, whether they would rather accept the results and be satisfied if they had guaranteed that a professional assessment would be fundamental and that it would be an unskilled member of the team that would have the responsibility to dictate this at any given time. It was determined not only by some financial frame but by the results of this professional assessment and ensured that all who were in the same position will receive the same treatment. Of course, I agree that there can be a lot to work on in addition to the North countries in these areas and it's really sad how it's worked out, that it gets in the way of long ago, that it is already possible to change the government law on public purchases, such as that the Landspians are not allowed to cooperate with other large hospitals in the North countries because it needs to be handled by the Government. What's that bullshit? We may not need many years to change that. [[The president calls.]] I also remind you of the Kunstler report and suggestions on even more extensive political cooperation than with the drugs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u29	A respectable president. Now, I continue to think about where my first talk had been abandoned. I'm glad to hear it. Minister will try to establish a partnership between the northern countries with the pharmaceutical trade. It is an idea that has been moving forward for some time, and hopefully it can be made effective now. It now sounds like a contingency among members of Congress about that emphasis. In my first speech, I reviewed that as I understand and have heard, the Icelanders have fallen behind when the time comes for a new drug. It's bad, and I don't think it has to be like that. I think it's a blame for the Icelandic health system when we have an example of a new drug used by doctors in over 90% of cases, I think, and neighboring nations have taken advantage of it, that it's not taken up here. Then what's wrong? I find two things in the conversation that I feel it needs to be fixed. This is because the gel is presented and said: The medicine is very expensive. These are 1,000 patients, and it takes 10 billion to heal them all. It's misleading. There are a number of drugs that are very expensive and in contact with animals, such as health care professionals, that not all patients with the disease are affected. The programme for use of such expensive products is set up. There would never be a way to cure anyone who has hepatitis C, if I understand that correctly, there is no one to talk about it, so I think it's misleading. The rest is like a dog. paritaprevir Valgerður Bjarnadóttir, that it must, of course, be made of cost-and-a-new analysis; which is more expensive for the community that all hepatitis C co-infected individuals continue to have hepatitis C, and eventually destroy their liver, and may even need to be replaced, or to take up this medicine and plan how to use it? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u30	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by thanking the advocate for starting this discussion and the highest. A health minister for the answers he has given us during the discussion. I'd like to start by saying I'm sorry for the situation that has come up in these matters. In our welfare society, it is difficult to see a situation like this. Nevertheless, I rejoice with the minister's words to correct shopping issues, including those that can be handled. on S-marked drugs, and working together with the North countries for shopping so that we can show a certain cost of shopping and thus achieve a reduction of drug costs and even getting more vital medications and meeting more requests, I don't know. It is also important to change the laws on public shopping. I was so happy when I got to the top. In his talk here, a health minister spoke about this when we discussed the budget bill a few days ago. I can agree with what we've been discussing, I think it's very important that there's a policy in these matters, that we'll see which way we want to go. I also think it is very important that we look at medicines that can be used for individuals, whether they can keep even their work ability and become valid in a job market and more. There are a lot of factors that we need to look into, but I'm really glad that there are really good and big steps in the Ministry of Health to improve these matters. Well done.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u31	President. I'm thinking about picking up the thread from what. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson's son. I think it's very important that we get information from the highest level. A health minister and even a health minister on the cost of illness, not merely from medication when people are sick, that they are not self - sufficient and even need blood - exchange therapies, but how much it takes for society to have a healthy person who can be healthy? How much? It costs more than money. It can also cost the quality of a sick family member. If there is a medicine such as this medicine that doctors hepatitis C, we should do everything we can to make sure that you get a doctor. I happen to have a friend who lives in a foreign country who texted me the other day. He is so lucky to have been undergoing such a course of treatment. He sent me the telegram: I am cured. What marvelous news that is! This friend of mine did not take long to receive chemotherapy, and he will never have to deal with all the problems she has with hepatitis C in the long run. I'd like to go to the highest. Secretary of health and the highest. To avoid helping people to reach full health, a minister of well - being singled out to gather social and health costs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u32	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion. I remember an incident during our last term when we went over 700 million over this team, the S-marked drug, to the budget. Of course, at the time I asked how this situation was being handled, and the answer was that this team is difficult to download so well because of its nature, that there was a fluke of the cost of health care because of the nature of the operation. Not all created objects can be estimated at a point and a stick. Therefore, I believe that out of this discussion there must be a clear message from the minister that we rather look at life and limb than in the budget. We have to put up with the ability to swing. Second, let me mention that I rejoice over what the minister says is being treated among the northern countries for tender tenders and other activities in an effort to cover expenses. I'm impressed with it, but at the same time, I'm going to say that, of course, a plan must be made on how to introduce drugs as doctors, and we'll see more in the near future. What if it comes here to medicines that cure cancer we are dealing with, and people go through radiation, chemotherapy, and surgery? There may be medicines that can relieve these painful actions. We must have a schedule of how we bring it in. A respectable president. If we're always going to watch a penny and drive, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Is it more necessary for the government to give the drugs to all older citizens who can't get them to prevent premature blindness or to become blind? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What does it cost the community, the homes, the health system?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u33	A respectable president. I appreciate the discussion we've been discussing here. I hear what you're saying. Senators vary in their place of home in the rule of the group of litigation. For example, I allow myself to assert it and to say it here, in the cause that there is a call for a stronger professional opinion and harmony, that it is all there is. The Act on Medicine Committees and Hospital Committees, Hospital finance committees, etc. - It's all worked on a professional basis. The process of working hard enables all the decisions in these matters to be handled on professional and financial grounds, and it is only for the professionals who work in it. The schedule will be prepared according to most of the land hospital's talk. In this case, June 12 of this year's discussion will address the most specific product mentioned in the discussion. The land hospital responds and starts using the 26th of June each year. In contrast, because of the agreement with other northern countries, there are 40 individuals on this particular drug in Norway now when we are preparing 30 here. No one was last year in Norway. I don't think it's right to discuss this on these grounds. I allow myself to assert that all of our fine people working in this sector are not just looking at their crowns and their money. It is attempting to establish a disease pattern, depending on the patient's condition, etc. So I trust in all aspects of my work, and I know that it is all of the will that we maintain our place that we have so far had in the society of the nations, and especially among the northern nations. We had the goal of being sooner than all the other northern nations, but now we're just behind or with it as a drug induction process. [[The president calls.]] Although, in this and other areas, we can always do better. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u34	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a change in nature protection law, No. 60/2013. Track No. 60/2013, on nature protection, were approved at the General Assembly in March 2013 with a validation of April 1, 2014. At that time, the Environment and Resource Minister submitted to the General Assembly in the fall of 2013 a bill to legalize the deportation of the law and was also suggested that the law be reviewed from the foundation. In February 2014, an Environmental and Transport Committee gave its committee alumni to a consultation with the Environment and Resource Minister that instead of breaking the law, their implementation would be postponed to July 1 July 2015. In part, by permission of the president, the committee stated that while specific aspects of the law No. 60/2013 are controversially held that there are benefits to the work that has been put into the overall review of the law's feelings. The results of the opinion also include: The Commission has agreed to emphasise the review of certain laws and at the same time ensures the agreement between laws. In these areas, work should be based on available work, the overall conceptology of the law and the view that further agreement is being made regarding final outcome. The above committee bodies show that these sections of the law, which were specifically protected by the precautions, the public rights section, the section on road and map base, the rules for special protection and the section on alien species. So during the revision of the law, I stressed that these factors, as well as other factors, would be taken into consideration to form the founding, definition of terms and procedure of peace. I will now explain how it was done to work with the bill's contract, with the goal of creating as far as the greatest agreement on its contents. In the autumn of 2014, a meeting ground for stakeholders to work with the Ministry was called together to help with the bill's contract. The members of the field were Iceland's national community,▁sambands and conventions, tourism, employment unions, National Protection, Iceland's Vocational Guild, Isthmus Association, Iceland's Tourist Association, Iceland's United States Health Association, Iceland's Nationalist Association, Iceland's National Association, Iceland's Health Association, the National Health Protection Association, and the National Achievement Association. The first formal meeting of the Ministry with the cooperative group was October 21, 2014. Thereafter, if they desired to do so, they were invited to make comments, but it was also noted that the comments and reviews that were already made in the matter but are already available in this language of extensive tips and comments made by the Ministry and the Generals. At the beginning of this year, representatives of the Environment and Resource Ministry had a meeting with the Allied Environmental and Transport Committee. It considered the points the Ministry considered needed to make a special consideration, and they introduced it to the committee. This led to the opinions of the Commission from February 2014 and the points there. Then the Ministry had a meeting with a number of stakeholders inviting them to make adjustments to the bill. In addition, I'd like to mention that the Ministry has been assisted by Dr. First Aðalheiður's Jóhannsdóttir, a professor of environmental rights, by a review of certain aspects of the law. Draws that the bill to legalize the change in nature protection laws were published for public introductions and advertised on the Ministry's website on March 10, 2015. In addition, meetings were held with the above - mentioned meeting points that covered the schedule and presented the group. The Council received over 20 envelopes, including from institutions, rural communities, communities, and individuals. After review of the observations, certain changes in the bill were made that have to do with the definition of the concept, the human movement, and the limitation of traffic, driving outside the road and document in Iceland's nature, and the right to improve. As I've traced, the bill was employed in a wide range of consultations with stakeholders as well as close consultation with an environmental and transport committee. I want to thank you for your cooperation. It was expected that the bill would be submitted to the General Assembly last spring, but because of lack of time, it could not be done. Instead, a bill was proposed to postpone the implementation of new nature protection laws to January 1, 2016, but an agreement was made that the value would be moved to November 15, 2015. The changes proposed in this bill are aimed at clarifying more fully the implementation of certain aspects of nature protection laws, No. 60/2013, achieve a better solidarity on the issues of new nature protection laws, thus strengthening the protection of the country from the present time. Clearly, the rights of nature need to be viewed by many different interests and viewpoints, and how important it is to reconcile a state of agreement with such principles as national protection. I'm reviewing key changes in the bill. The format of the precaution has been changed, but the level of the principle is clarified, as well as assumed to be more detailed in the Regulation on how to use it. Changes are made to the public rights section of the law where public rights are sought to free transport at the same time as the right to limit land traffic are changed. It is in that more detailed provisions are available to limit traffic, both through the use of landowners and by protective closures, when there is a significant risk of road damage. There is a new approach in the V. chapter of the law on driving outside the road so that the display of maps is expected to be in the hands of the Vega type to ensure consistent sync between road files, the Agency and the files prepared under the new 32rd paragraph. The bill. The Court's review of nature calendars is reduced but at the same time, it is endeavoring to strengthen the right effect from the current protection laws. The Act on Special Protection of certain ecosystems and landmines is supported by current protection laws and is therefore met by comments and indications that the right effects of this law cannot go as far as was proclaimed in the law of No. 60/2013. For the section on alien species and import and distribution of the laws in the bill, it is expected to be revised with the intention of uniting the EEA's administration to the information provided by the Food Agency on animal import control and various kinds of evils. I will now explain to you the key changes proposed in the bill. Two. The bill is proposed to change the format of the precaution as previously indicated. It has been noted that if it is valid, it will cause a valid conviction about the timing of this important rule, which must be addressed. The change aims to narrow down the points of the article so that it applies to government decisions taken on the basis of the law. The bill suggests that in the Regulation further regulations on how to apply this rule will be applied. Unsure, usually scientific uncertainty, and lack of information on whether certain activities or activities will have adverse impact on nature. Six-six, one-two. par. The bill is presented with adjustments to the legal requirements related to public rights. Main changes in these articles turn to the interaction of free moves across the country and the use of landowners or the rights. The change is suggested to explain further that when a landowner or a rightful authority is certainly using uninhabited land in his area, he is permitted to limit his policies on that land. Therefore, the co-administration is suggested for a change to 25. has turned to sources to limit traffic through the country. These changes lead to better traffic through sensitive areas of heavy waste, with a significant risk of loss. 13th and 14th. The bill is proposed to change the section of the law that deals with driving outside the road and a list of roads in Iceland's nature. If we first look at the 13th Amendment proposals. they aim to explain what has been thought to be blurred, as well as to simplify the rules of excluded driving. In addition, the Agency is requested to be allowed to give an exception to driving outside the road because of filmmaking. From the Law No. 60/2013, of nature protection, had repeatedly been approved by moviemakers who wanted to drive outside because of filmmaking. However, it is not considered preconceivable to give a general discharge, but it is considered that such a driving will always be confined to the permission of the EEA. 14th degree. The bill is presented as a fundamental change of 32. The law is about map base and path, but the bill suggests that work will be coordinated for the future of other transports in the country. Instead of providing a map database for Iceland's National Research Centres, it is suggested that road - to - traffic records be held by the road of a digital map other than the highways of Iceland authorised by motor vehicles to drive. The road type is permitted to keep such a file, and it is suggested that rurals suggest that the file within the framework of a major structure, and will be accepted along with its payment. This is not to be expected to produce a map base on one occasion. Rather, it is to be a living document controlled by the Road program. Within this file, you may sort ways according to different usages, whether open or closed. In the 17th. The bill is submitted to a change in the course of the legal action of a memorization of naturemin file. When a bill was a law on nature protection, No. 60/2013, a major criticism was made that the right effect was too extensive, i.e. that areas on a natural memory should not be disturbed unless clearly necessary and there were no other benefits. It aims to soften this wording, but I also want to point out that if you think you need further protection for certain areas of a natural calendar, the law will allow the law to express the possibility of peace in that area, thus providing further protection. In the 28th C.E. The bill is proposed to change the laws of the law to provide special protection for certain ecosystems and soils. The wording in the 57th chapter is suggested. change to the extent that, unless absolutely necessary, a ban on the disorder is required and other advantages are not appropriate, the need to avoid disrupting these items as possible should be avoided. I think this change is natural, because it discusses special protection of natural phenomena wherever they can be found in the country, not the list of memorizations of a natural memory that will depend on a specific region. Twenty-nineth. The bill is proposed to change the section of the law on the import and distribution of living alien species. First, it is suggested that the import application will be a joint version of the import and distribution plans. Second, unless the organism is already in the country or its import prohibited under the regulations set by the Minister, the EEA's access to import and distribution of living alien organisms is required. I would like to state that the person responsible for importing alien species that are not intended to be distributed is obliged to exercise special caution and to take into account all the reasonable measures that will be considered and prevent the escape and spread of the species. The bill also contains other changes that involve, among other things, the shape of conceptization, the definition of terms, and the peace descriptions of areas. The changes turn toward the peace-informed areas particularly involve areas of peace and to be clearly determined that the Agency's permission should always be performed and because of activities where there is a risk of damage to peace-installed nature mines. A respectable president. I've traced this bill's main subject and suggested that it be after the 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u35	President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the story. Indeed, there is a difference between this bill and the bill as the highest. Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, the minister of the United States, made an effort to break the law of No. 60/2013. Fortunately, two years later, we have arrived somewhere else. I want to use this opportunity in particular to celebrate and thank you very much. Minister for her approach to attempting to achieve a common landing in this case. I'd like to ask the highest, though. Minister on one principle, that is the recommendation to be taken as a precautionary measure. It is now known that with the change suggested in this bill on the safety of the law No. 60/2013 is the level of the precautionary principle narrowed. The 2013 law covers the decision of an organization, implementation, or work permit, but only on administrative decisions, i.e. decisions relating to individual rights and responsibilities, such as permission, not planning or general land use requirements. First, I want to ask the highest. A minister to what comment she is responding by making this suggestion. Second, I would like to ask if this implementation of the precaution as suggested in its bill is in line with what is available in the proposals of the Commission, which is exactly the same procedure as it is that I know to suggest that the rule of caution be established in Iceland's Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u36	Thank you. A senator for his reputation with the bill. Indeed, the rule of caution is one of the main windows lying on the ground and trying to explain more clearly. Especially is this so when an effort is made to clarify its principles better. It is true that it covers only government decisions taken on the basis of nature protection laws. A cautionary rule may indeed affect other laws, but due to inquiry here on the Constitution committee, I have reports that the setting of precautions in a particular form in the constitution is under way. There were a number of comments that I know of. A senator also knows about the precautions. We think we've tried to explain it better this way, it's not woven into other laws, it's right, but it's now put in the protection laws for the first time. It is also considered with regard to the Constitution committee, then it comes to Regulation, and it becomes a natural formula for how to behave.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u37	President. Well, there may not be any reason to go to a lot of tension at the highest. Minister at this point of discussion. I'd like to say, though, that this isn't explaining the rule, it's crowding it, that's what it's called. Let's just say that the rules are being narrowed down, that's what's in law No. 60/2013. I thought it was the highest answer. However, the secretary's questions regarding cooperation or cooperation in these two projects, on the other hand of the Constitution work and this bill, are they unclear: Has the Environment Ministry consulted with the Ministry on Speaking and Understanding of the Presidency as being involved in the Constitution? It is important for us to be informed. Secondly, the highest. Ministers that she is responding to some comments, and I would like to ask if I am wrong in the statement that it has come primarily to the level of the precautionary principle and its tribulations, this requirement has come primarily from Land activation, Industrial Association, Business Association, and others who are interested in the weakening of nature's status in Icelandic legislation and in support of a candidate's office. How's the top? Ministers to take special care of their interests in the recommendations presented here?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u38	A respectable president. It doesn't have to be repeated, we can talk about tightness of the set of values. We think we're explaining it. To inform the senator, Páll Þórhallsson, director of the Constitution in the Ministry of Presidency, has not only been contacted but he received this principle of precautions to consider. Then we've worked very closely with Professor Aðalheiður Jóhannsdóttir on the 9th. And as to where you come from, that includes. You're right. I am always very weak when comments come from the local community because they are now another government system in the country, and I take them very seriously.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u39	A respectable president. We start another winter discussing this important matter, and it is well, and it is important that we do so well. It is not necessary, as it were, to consider how we came to bring it here to the position it is in right now. During the last term, large - scale protection laws were adopted, followed by predecessors at the highest level. Secretary of the profession, chief. Minister Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, with a deportation bill to the legislation adopted on spring days 2013, after a tremendous consultation and a great deal of work. Then, when we were on the Environment and Transport Committee began to look into the matter further, you would realize, contrary to all categories, that it might now be quite dramatic to intend to throw away all the good work because the foundation of the new law would be considerably stronger than in existing legislation. It was noted in the Committee at its time that existing legislation often involves an enormous degree of justice and that would be explained by the new law code that had not gone into effect. The committee's work also showed that it was indiscriminate to throw all the large legal columns as if they were committed, so it would be better to try to limit the issues involved. When this work began, it was found that not many were exaggerated, but these were points such as publicity of the public court, the safety principle mentioned, the laws for special protection, misdirection, and then the laws on alien living things. These were the factors that we could isolated the matter from. It was good that at the time, we would work together not to throw away that important and good work but to keep it in the background but to consider the points mentioned. I'm not going to say it to a lot of people, but I would have, of course, wanted the committee to come first. Second, we would have even had about the bill that lies here. That's right, we had a good meeting with the Ministry, but then there was no consultation with us on how things would be implemented before they would be submitted. I might as well have imagined that the committee could have finished that job and moved it on. It would have been interesting, at least, to engage in it. This might have made sure that men tried to make peace with the situation. For our part in the Union, this is a number of good changes bill, and we thank the Minister's will to try to establish some solidarity over the matter in the short period of time until the law takes effect, but I still have to put a few notices on it. We've got a few things on the bill, and they're pretty big. When discussing the precautions so - called in which the principle is that there is a lack of scientific assurance in which some irreparable damage to nature is at risk, it should not be used to delay some action to prevent environmental damage. This is a rule that we believe is important to be introduced into law. There have been some laws over a long period of time that have tried to introduce these precautions. It's kind of amazing that we haven't been able to get together for proper precautions in Icelandic legislation with the enormously important and delicate nature we have. I hope we manage to get some sort of crash right now. But as the bill puts it, we want to see how it changes, we will carefully review it on the committee in what way it can be. I agree with what. paritaprevir Svandís's Svavarsdóttir, who actually speaks of tribulation. What we said in our committee's list of precautions was that we thought it had to be legally legalized but that the order had to be implemented in the appropriate branches of nature protection laws and by other laws by occurrences, and that it had to be in line with other laws where the rule applies, i.e. criticism was found that there was an inconsistencies with other legislation and within the legislation. We thought it best to look at it. We did not talk about the fact that this would lead to some sort of tribulation. So we need to look at this, and we're going to put this on notice. Then we will also give priority to what was, and we will be the principal newer in the 2013 legislation, which is a requirement for special protection. It consists of a new order of peace, peace, and protection, which assumes a total of three objects of nature, as well as a special protection of a set ecosystem, land mines, etc., so you explain to people who are listening to what it is all about. These are important regulations. We feel that this too needs to be examined in the bill. I'm not going to have any further issues on this. A respectable president. I expect much of the Committee's work and hope that we will succeed in passing through the points I have mentioned, as well as others I consider to be a little less important, these are the factors in the matter. We also need to go through very carefully the effect that what is in the bill has on the law and on the public court in general, that's a big part of this. In view of the lack of time, we would like to be quick to comment, and we can start working on the matter on the committee, and hopefully we'll be lucky to report the case tomorrow. A respectable president. Now that I have become a man of nature's protection, I must declare a total disappointment with the place nature protection holds in the government. There are, of course, many things that people are willing to do in matters of law and to say things, but when it comes to conforming to legislation, there is much more to it. For example, we see this in the budget bill. It does not expect any increase in terms of peace or financial growth to follow, for example, the reservation of protection. You can't always have an opinion and cooperate with the Neon Party or the waiting party, and you also need to cooperate with the Guardian Party. If this is not done, there will never be a problem with the group. In my opinion, it is not possible to say that the reason is that the areas need better, men could settle down, but in the meantime it is not entirely unsatisfying. The minister has tools and tools to go to. For example, there are outstanding qualities that are part of the reservation. The territory in which this area is located is very clear. I'm going to be using North American Vegetarian. The territory is very clear. It's well described in the synopsis accepted from here. So it should not be a problem for a person to express peace in that territory. Or the minister may offer suggestions based on how this would be established and would prompt the General to accept it. It is possible to want to do so. I must say, just as it is, with each passing year, I feel more and more disappointed because people do not move on in this matter. I mean, really something by getting along with the category, they're also dealing with the reservation, that's just the way it is, but that's not what it is, or that's what it is. I can't help but mention these matters when we discuss nature protection in the big context and change of the big, important law code of the new nature protection laws. I challenge the highest. A minister is now starting his work to define these areas so that we can start and see the peace description process begin with the Precinct in a frame of action during this term or that this will only be left in war. It's just that way. I'd also like to mention that there is no difficulty in knowing exactly where to operate under the Senate arrangement. They know exactly ten fingers which area to disrupt, but they have no idea which area to protect or say they don't have it. You can't come back and say it to us all over again because we know better. It is possible, then, if the minister wishes to have any greater assurance or support at the council, to set down which area these are, and to take us members of the council through it here. I have finished my case, a respectable president, and look forward to handling this assignment on the committee. But I repeat, we have specific warnings. I hope that we will be able to approach that matter with an open mind and reach some solidarity in our landings.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u40	A respectable president. First, I would like to ask the question that perhaps we should do in the beginning of every discussion on new matter, which is, Why this law? Why do we need special laws on nature protection? What conclusion can we draw from the fact that such laws are valid and that in recent years we have spent a considerable amount of time discussing and dealing with their contents? That is because all of us here agree, and all of us who live in this community, I believe, do agree that there is a need for specific laws to protect nature. We need to ask ourselves, " Why does a special law need to protect something that everyone agrees with us to protect? ' Does that not just happen on its own? Isn't this unnecessary work? Of course, this can be answered and, as it were, has been answered very often by looking into the facts. You see, it's like this, not just in Iceland, but all over the world, that human economy operates on laws that violate earth's ecosystems. We have in a number of areas affected our nature and our environment in a powerful technological capacity. What we are doing here is an attempt to take care of what we all agree to be valuable and important to us. We have made various efforts to solve the world's problems. An example of this is the 1992 Rio. It was a contract for sustainable development that assumed that we would be connected with nature and the whole earth and its ecosystems in such a way that it was as if we were to survive the growth and that we should not walk on the basis of it. The same is true when it comes to the nature of Iceland. More natural hazards or harm caused by technology e.g. nuclear waste, insecticides, greenhouse effect, ozone layer, etc. This is what we know and have been coping with. So there are a number of examples that support the use of specific laws to protect Iceland. Have humans ever harmed anything in Icelandic nature? you may ask at a convention. Yes, it has happened. There are known examples of this, e.g. The silica plant in Lake Mesquite, the growle of Sogina, and so on. There are countless cases of areas that have been corrupted because of human exposure. As a result, I was delighted to participate in the work being done and to prepare for the law of No. 60/2013. The past of that work was great. It was written by a special white book that outlined the work ahead of us. There were meetings in many parts of the country, traveling far and wide, and presenting the work and ideas of the world. Finally, the matter was presented at the council, and a full discussion of the Environment and Transport Committee was made during the last term, which ended with the legalisation of the bill, which was delayed. In fact, I had a serious disagreement with this, and it can be seen in the news that I did not agree to postpone my execution. I felt that the law included a great process of progress, especially the principles of the precaution and the ideologies of sustainable development that were based on the law that we gave in 2013. In fact, there have been some warnings and objections and ideas that these laws have gone too far, that they include too much protectiveism, and that with their approval and promotion, understanding over lakes could not be done, people have been prevented from doing something because it was so extreme. It has never been clearly explained why the law went too far, how the rule of caution created uncertainty, and what it would have to do with it, the consequences it might have. There have been no examples of this, no arguments followed. Therefore, I did not understand the decision when an attempt was first made to undo the law, as it was said of the time being. Environment Minister, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson. Then there were attempts to make changes in the safety profile, including the proposal under the topic under consideration. I have never really had a complete grasp of why it was necessary or what would be dangerous in the first article or in its expressions. All right. I am willing to listen to reasons and to share in improving matters if possible, in order to make them more settled. I think in the ground is behind this legislation and this bill wants to protect Iceland's nature, which is the most important thing in all of this. Of course, in order to do so, the law needs to be clear. Then you need to know exactly what the precautions are. It is among the things mentioned in the highest language. Environment Minister earlier that previous implementation has included too much uncertainty and could create legal reasons. In fact, this conflicts with the current export. The precaution has been put down, but then a new paragraph that reads so is added by the president's permission: To take care of 1 mg. To be performed, Minister must be in accordance with the Regulation on the details of: Four significant issues to be implemented in the Regulation are listed by the minister. I do not agree, as part of the legislation of the legislature, that such an important rule is in the hands of the European Commission, that its distribution is not complete by the legislature of the legislature but is only sent to the Ministry to be solved later. I think it's completely unacceptable. I will use it on the Environment Committee that we simply work this article so that it will be acceptable and clear. Various attempts can be made to change the wording. The importance of this is that the rule will be broad, a principle, and not just a political decision, as expected in this process, and that it involves the lack of scientific knowledge or scientific evidence not to be used against nature, i.e. Without doubt, the natural world will always be interpreted in the best interests of its own. It is extremely important, otherwise we may repeat environmental accidents such as the ones I listed in the first part of my talk, both within the country and on the global level. Lack of such thinking led to action. They used technology that they didn't see to the end. Time is not too long for us to go deeper into the bill. I just want to kill down on the coverage that has already been done on the bill as it already is and to quote an interview that took place at Guðmundur Guðbrandsson, executive director of the Land Protector, that Land Protection wanted the legislation to take effect right away in 2013. Land protectors feel less protected by the changes made. This was the case, for example. in the 2013 laws adopted to strengthen the protection of special soils, such as fire speed, artificial gigs, marine fats, and certain sizes of wetlands. If 2013 law had gone into effect, then those areas would have been more difficult to disrupt. This has been largely restored to the values it is now in the 1999 law. It's a move back in my opinion, and it's a return, too. This has also been considered to reduce the impact of the precaution. There's something we need to review carefully on the environment and transport committee. There are certain things in this bill that are very positive. Overall, I'm pretty optimistic that we will be able to complete this case before the date of the law's deadline. 60/2013 expires, which is mid-November, if I don't break loose. Among the positive is the recording of the international environmental protection organization on the classification of peace-engineered areas. They are putting together a clearer and international frame of communication with them. There are other factors that are very good. There are some things that we're going to do better, like the public rights we have to travel through our country. It is of utmost importance for us to go through that law now because we watch a bit of the changed reality in these substances, a great stream of tourists, a number of companies selling through the edge and the wind, and over the next losses, and years, this right will be tested. How important it is that we reach out for this chapter and provide it in a way that makes all of us as happy as possible in this regard! I'm not gonna have any more comments on the bill as it looks right now. There are a few things I can't get over at the time I'm being dosed to take part in this discussion. I want to end the point at which I started: What we share in this case is the reason we're dealing with these laws, and that's why the government, like the last one, sets out special laws on nature's protection. We agree that there is a reason for this, since there are value in Icelandic nature that we share with each other to fit and protect. That's a very good foundation. Then we need to be careful that the foundation on which we build is actually the one to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u41	President. We'll discuss a bill to legalize a change in nature protection law, No. 60/2013, but that law is quite unusual, i.e. They have been waiting for a delay in validation ever since they were taken care of here from the General Assembly. At first, it was part of an agreement on the end of elections before the 2013 election to change several regulations in that bill and in that law, but primarily to postpone the adoption of the law. When a new government took over the end of the election, the current government, it was said very early that these laws were best removed and replaced. It really was the bill that hadn't. The Environment and Transport Committee was handed over, but by the making of a hearing to one another's point of view, it was possible to avoid the fact that the work that had been going on then was actually going right from the election of 2009 to the courts. So, fortunately, it was avoided by accident or bad intentions, so you just put it as it was, throwing at table four years of work. One of the projects I received in 2009 after the collapse of the economy was the global analysis of nature protection laws. This is so as to remind us that if we want to do well, there'll be no use in terms of a term, there won't be much of a four - year period, if there's a job to be done well. We see examples of such work to be made up of a reimbursement of foreigners, who are now working, and are actually taking root all over the last terms. To achieve such a grand task, good time and much scientific work are needed. At this point, I wanted to consult with the experts I called to try to change the practice. In fact, I believe that this work is exemplary in many ways, I am not taking a stand on the individual subject or the conclusion of the bill as it was suggested in the past, but perhaps much rather looking forward to it as a procedure to put together a sort of white book on the protection law in Iceland, i.e. A book that feeds on the protection laws in Iceland, which would then be inexpensive. It was the aim and was perhaps made for the Swedish and Norwegian models, that instead of taking up the old law and putting two or three good experts and the Ministryes into the uplifting of the law and revising them and then bringing a bill into the council, we were trying to approach a new beginning point by finding where the land was stuck and starting, on the one hand, by the 1999 law and by the best knowledge at the time, not only about the field itself, nature protection, by being in agreement with the best scientists and institutions of nature protection at Iceland, and by the National Institute of Nature and the United States, but not without being very effective at our top experts in the administration of nature laws that need to enforce nature protection at any time. Then, first of all, I'm looking to those who have the management and extramarital areas to do and conduct a peace-telling process, etc. When this foundation lay on more than a hundred pages, I felt it most profitable to provide them with a review of their work, i.e. before we started writing the bill. In the conflict tradition we were accustomed to, suspicion arose against this white book, and some people viewed it as the decision of a minister, as the result of the greater section at the time. I've been very concerned about how the case was going down since then, because in some respects we were at the point where we were taking the matter right through the council. Then, in particular, I would like to mention the details of the import and distribution section of invasive and alien species, perhaps primarily this two chapters and the rules involved at that time. However, I still believe that this procedure is good, that we should try to have open and accessible the process of reporting all the time, i.e. While working basic work at the Ministry, we should have the possibility of the arrival of those who have the law to do in later but no less grass - based movements, public organization, and interested persons throughout society. When we're talking about such a big deal that's a protection, almost every person has some opinion of the nature protection that has this positive appearance, i.e. to protect the nature of the country, at the same time, includes limitations on what man can do. So it is, in fact, a law of law that is just as much about building a limit to man's walking on the rights of nature. In a country and in a society that has a very rich freckle tradition if I just allow myself to say it that way, there are a lot of powerful stakeholders who will rise up at the moment to walk or limit the right of the person to act. Of course, we must always be aware of this. I may have been especially preoccupied with it, perhaps as a member of a green party, but also because it is in the spirit of nature protection laws in the countries around us and what is best happening at the United Nations scene on conservation, that it was my role and ours at the World Council to ensure that the laws on nature protection are under the name of such, i.e. They are designed to protect nature, not to soften the wording, and to ensure that no one will feel that his right is in order to perform almost anything. In that spirit, the bill was submitted at the time, and in that spirit there were no law. 60/2013 when they were approved here shortly before the election in that year. It's a huge book of law. These are over 90 legal cases. This is a law column that replaces law from 1999 and is absolutely timely. We can see this if we redirect the story that natural protection laws need to be updated regularly. It must be ensured that they are in line with what happens in the countries around us, as well as that they are having some form of conversation with other aspects of society development. Thus, no longer can wait for new protection laws to take effect. They will do this on November 15, 2015, with the changes we will make in the council here at that time. Environment and transport committee and then here at the council Hall. That's why I'm concerned about two aspects of the bill primarily. I reviewed one of them especially in response to the Supreme Court. Minister who is a significant tribulation in the value of the precautionary principle. I don't feel that as far as the bill goes, it's so fundamental that we need to be careful that we don't show up on the nature protection laws. The other point I'd like to mention is the 57th paragraph. of the 2013 Act. It's the 37th paragraph. current environmental protection laws from 1999, which are more often than not called the regulations for special protection. It's really about some natural phenomena, waterfalls and lava and artificial gigs, etc., simply being protected no matter what their own defenses are. Whether they are emancipated or not, whether they are on a natural note or not, we agree on some list of natural phenomena that are simply respected and therefore protected. Law No. 60/2013 says, in its law, that ecosystems and soils are affected, as listed at 1 and 2 mg. unless clearly necessary, these specific natural phenomena of the doubt will be enjoyed there. It is not a final result of the fact that it may be absolutely necessary, but the recruiter and the permission team are being made to support it in an adequate way to maintain it. This expression is changed to the bill that appears at the highest level. A minister saying that it says, "Ecosystems and land mines must be disturbed." I think everyone here is seeing that the law is being changed, so it's safe, it's not really just being weakened, it's being cut off. If we're just going to avoid disrupting ecosystems and land mines, we've weakened the law that it really is as weak as it is in the current law of No. 44/1999. Many people, nature - protection organizations, subversive motions, and actually engineering agencies, have expressed the opinion and attitude of the provision for special protection, par. 37rd. ... from 1999, if the current law exists. Mr. President, it's impossible for us to change and update nature protection laws 16 years later and to continue with the defeating regulations for special protection. We cannot be suggesting a significant weakness of the precautions at first and then that the special protection is blunt. It's not working. A respectable president. We've got a lot of work to do at the end of the day. The Environment and Transport Committee, and we're sure to have a good look at all these issues. We have a short period of time, but we will focus well and in the interest of the Icelandic nature and nature protection so that the 60/2013 laws will be good and put into force by changes that will benefit us from nature protection in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u42	A respectable president. I thank the senators and the Ministers for good talks. I'd like to ask you why. The senator who last stood here on the platform, the Svandís Svavarsdóttir, on whether she disagrees with the director of the European Environment Agency, who was meeting with the Council's Environment and Transport Committee this morning. There he noted that the so - called green economy actually had very abundant healing and that it was supported by reason. Hv. A senator speaks of the main purpose of protecting humans. There she specifically mentions a business that always wants to go further and further, and that is where we really need to go. So I want to ask you why. A senator whether she disagrees with what the manager of the environment had in mind this morning at the Committee meeting, where he said that the most economic and economic growth was exactly where companies worked in green ways and kept the environment in mind for all their jobs and activities.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u43	Mr. President. I deeply agree with what an informative guest of the environment and transportation committee said this morning and I would actually like to do better and pray. A senator traveling with me in rebuilding a fine synonym that was approved at 63:0 during the last term, on the green economy, where all members of Congress agreed on a specific and defined project for green building in Iceland. This project has now virtually been brought to nothing, it has almost been brought to nothing. It was first changed and placed in a very deep drawer of the Ministry of Presidency, but then it has been dejected to little or nothing compared with what it was, so I rejoice at it. A senator records this. I think it's a very important point. A senator noted that the growth that lies ahead of him into the 21st century must be green. You see, it must not be aggressive. He has to be self-sustained. And in order for it to be sustainable, it needs to take into account nature and environment. That's what I'm talking about when I'm talking about a protection law that needs to be built. Then I'm not talking about making it necessary for humans to do nothing, but that what they do is done with respect to nature and that is done so that we make sure that we don't go faster on it, but we can build up again and give it back to future generations. We've seen that if these limitations are not met, then the tendency is that companies and other such persons will grow and can sometimes do so at the expense of these interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u44	A respectable president. That's exactly what happened. A senator says we walk safely around the earth. Today, it is as if we are actually done with our dose, so to speak, sometime in August but should be able to survive the earth's goods just to the year and preferably return some leftovers. I believe that by getting people on the team by making the environment the common language of all Icelanders, we are moving toward the same team together to take advantage of our opportunities but to bear in mind the limits of nature, of course. I would like to encourage the tone of reconciliation I felt as if I could hear it. A senator earlier knows that we must find a basis where we can make peace with these matters, they are always getting bigger and bigger.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u45	President. I also want to rejoice in a sense of reconciliation, and I believe in it. In many ways, a senator shares these views. Of course, it is very important that environmental and environmental protection issues are not isolated from certain categories or specific political dimensions. In fact, this morning's meeting showed that the environment is growing at an international level in political discussions and increasing above the program all over the world. What once were foreign affairs has now become environmental, and this is beginning to overlap much more than it did. But because I mentioned here some of the green economy just now, I'd like to mention a project that has been hit by the present government, and it's a climate fund. It is a fund that was designed specifically to support research, development, and innovation in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. There was a particularly green fund to stimulate and encourage innovation in this direction, i.e. to support specific and targeted green growth. I think we need to do it more than that. We need to have a much more loyal focus in this regard. That's what I've been thinking about, and we've been at the highest. Ministers have discussed this and need to do it again, and often a strategy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions must be active in all institutions. It's not enough that there's just some programme somewhere on a level and then the numbers are put together once a year. It needs to be intertwined in all society institutions. There is something we need to do and that is one of our reasons. A senator can bring us into this newly formed solidarity here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u46	President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir For a very good talk, Svandís's Svavarsdóttir Varsity And I also want to use this opportunity to thank the former Minister for being the best environmental minister we've ever had here. During the Ministerial period, many very needs were being worked. A senator, including the White Book, is a remarkable document. I hope we can get out of these traditional pits, because there are just the basic rules we can follow to let nature enjoy the doubt and to help those who have to perform regulations and laws to do so in the best way. Now it is that the environment is not something isolated and confined but, in fact, something that affects our life and future. I'd like to ask if there's a problem with it with a former minister or if there's something that would be better off to catch the current shock, especially around this massive climate conference that will be in Paris in December. Is there anything we can do to show that we understand that nature is not separate from us?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u47	President. First, I want to thank warm words to me. Usually, it's just the boys who compliment each other with their strength here at the Senate Hall, so I want to thank you very much for that. However, during the last term, the environmental class enjoyed much of its share over the government. We had the support of the movement in these big environments all the time, and thanks to members of Congress who left the government during the season did not part the environment, so throughout the entire time we were actually votes at a 38 ballot with green matter. What a joy it was when other matters began to experience the strong solid solidarity! Hv. A senator doesn't have a little question here, and as expected and shows, these are serious questions, and she asks, "What can Iceland do? I've always been a spokesman for Iceland's military and military alliances, and I've thought that this small country of the north may be such a voice of international change, and we can be the voice of peace and disarmament. It is in the same way my position that we can be the voice of those who reject oil and oil operations completely in our territory, and thus we take the step to say that it is irresponsible to continue the search for oil and the processing of fossil fuels when we know that this is where the biggest fault is when it comes to greenhouse gas emissions. It's like talking in two worlds if we don't take it together. Then I hope I have a chance to improve my next counterweight.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u48	President. I don't usually have the means to flatter people unless they deserve them. It was really remarkable to observe all the tremendous attacks. During her Prime Minister's reign, there was a senator. But I also think it's very important that I've heard members of the council, including... Yeah. paritaprevir Hirst Elín that you sense will be involved in allowing nature to enjoy the doubt. I have no doubt that the highest. Environment Minister is the same, and I think it's very important that the environment is not stuck on the left side. It involves all of us, and the future of our children and our grandchildren, and in fact, we should always make decisions that are important, including. for nature, to think of the next seven generations. For example, whenever we decide to activate something or go searching for it, we should consider the next seven generations. I want to agree with what. A senator that I don't think this is in line with the image we want and the direction we should have taken in an oil hunt with the Chinese in the Dragon area. I think it's extremely strange and disturbing. Sadly, the decision of the left category was to go to this partnership. I find it very important, too, that those who often prey on the natural world and do not take advantage of the doubt are also on the left side, and those who join the team are sometimes on the right side of the doubt. This is not supposed to be a group of predominantly, so I challenge any senators wherever they stand with nature and think of the next generation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u49	A respectable president. Hv. A senator mentioned the situation and the attacks and, in many respects, the discussion during the last terms. Then I'd like to say that I truly agree that the environment has a full cause over the entire political spectrum, but I'm still that way, and I'm very concerned that during the last term, those of the highest rate and the most vicious campaigns against nature's having the doubt of protecting the interests of the money force. You see, it is the capitalism that is the big threat, and in that sense it is important that we realize that there is a need to build a limit to unbridled greed and the expansion of capitalism if there is to be a future for mankind on earth. It's not just about climate. It is also about the biodiversity of species, about water and air and soil. Therefore will I allow myself, being both left and green, to say that these two have much fellowship. On the other hand, I would like to say it, because of what. A senator was wondering about the state of the environment, and I know why. A senator's intense interest in the Council of Government and its credibility in all of this is because it also matters, in some places, that the environment is above the hierarchic. They're almost next to the Ministry of Presidency. In France, the Environment Ministry is far stronger than in most other places, and this makes me think about the whole area of the case. Then I'm wondering about the Environment and Resource Ministry, if it's to be known as the Oceanographic Institute.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u50	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to legalize a change in nature protection law, No. 60/2013, with subsequent changes. This includes the precautions, the public rights, special protection, alien species, etc. This bill was put before the Council of the Council in the fall of 145th, and it is assumed to be on the 15th of November. In my opinion, it is very enjoyable to have decided to win the bill by an early bill on these subjects but to make some major changes in terms of reconciliation. I would like to begin with my speech before making the material effort to protest it as a matter of course. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir said in his opponent earlier - she was leaving the hall -- that it was a capitalist to teach how it was, that he was some sort of scapegoat. This doesn't make me feel like we're getting out of the holes of the left and right politics in our discussion of the environment that I think is vital for us. A large proportion of the nation, a capitalist, who lives by the capitalist system, cannot be made into this case. How much better it is for us to stick together and together try to calm down in this matter, the environment of the world. Iceland can't break out. This morning at a meeting of the Environment and Transport Committee came to our director of the European Environment Agency, which we Iceland are involved in through the EEA. He discussed the state of the north, especially Iceland, the state of Europe's environment, and he said, among other things, during the last five, six years, the situation had been so clarified as to the green economy, as he called it that there was now the place in the creative world where it would be best to be, and that it would be the most economic interest there. This is an indication of how these two can work together. So here we are, in a sustainable manner, preserving the earth we have, and also we are in the process of making economic growth and progress and improving quality of life, etc. But let's not go in the opposite direction. That's very pleasant news. I urge us, the Icelandic government, to be no submerged in the effort to bring us into contact with these matters. Environmental concerns are becoming one of the biggest issues we have in our day. They contain an enormous amount of material. We're talking foreign affairs, defenses, economics, health and welfare issues. We're talking about almost everything that attracts a good life in the community. That is why there is such an essential part of the possibility that things can work out here as best planned that these issues are set very high on the program, which is taking place all over the world. One of the most important things to do this is to discuss the matter in a more objective way. I've felt that too much shooting warfare was part of this class of stereochromes. I don't think it belongs there, it belongs where the best evidence wins. For example, I want to talk about our goals in climate matters until 2030. They were introduced in the summer and then on the front of the Paris Summit, which will be held in December. In this regard, a worldwide agreement on greenhouse gas emissions is to be set up as determined and approved by the government. Iceland will aim to achieve a common objective with EU and Norway about a 40% reduction to 2030 compared to 1990. This is no little news in economic context, and I see no better than I do the Icelanders have to start shoving up the sleeves already to make those goals work for us. I stress that environmental factors are now affecting all aspects of politics. This group of paintings has become so extensive, since our resources here on earth are limited, and we all want to walk around our home with respect and forethought. We must let these things play together so that they can be of good to the public, that is, the most important thing. Because of what? Svavarsdóttir And I would like to point out that in the summer before the end of our last council, the Minister of Industrial and Business produced a report on the green economy, which was very clearly spoken of as being of the importance of Iceland and the Icelandic economy into our immediate future to promote, for example, energy exchange in transport. It is for us Icelanders after a tremendous amount of craftiness, as it were. We can save the same amount in import of fossil fuels. At the same time, we can make a lot of effort to control the greenhouse effect, and we can use our useful sustainable sources of energy and all the world to earn money and thus be a model so that I protest that the green economy is lifeless in Iceland. I think that's exactly what it is, but because I have a short period of time left, I'd like to take a little example, the road around the Chef Forest. There I thought that the conflict that often exists around the environment was crystal crystalting. I had a very specific view of the subject that I would like to review here. This controversy was about turning the road through Chets Forest in Eastern Burden County. She was long and hard, and I don't know if she's been brought back, I think, but she was particularly hard for the locals. The issue was about the environmental impact of a new road via the Forest of Chef, a beautiful birch forest with a variety of natural plants and one of the largest continuous forests in Iceland of this type. It's very ancient. The same is true of humans who were concerned about the effect of the road on bird life in the region in connection with paradoxing the Valley of Deep Valley and the Valley of Gufu. If we add these arguments to the scales, the other would say that the new road through the Forest was to be replaced by a dangerous mountain road through the neck of Hjalla, I hope I have local names. On that road, six basic schoolchildren had to ride a bus every hour to attend school. Most of the local people spoke very clearly, the locals wanted a lowland road through the Chef Forest that would be much safer than the highland road. Moreover, the new road would shorten the distance some 20 miles [20 km] between the countryside. That's why I wanted to give this example of how important it is that we protect individual nature in Iceland, but I must also realize that we are living in this country and good transport is a prime factor, e.g. for the rest of the scattered settlements. Governments are particularly about choosing the right and the most reasonable path for society in general. In this particular situation, which has become very famous in the media, I have to say that the small environmental impact of Chessian forests will be felt by me that what is at stake for the locals and others who have to travel through the area is more important. So my conclusion is that these roads should be attacked. I could also make it clear that my subject here is the importance of tourism that our highlands are as unsatisfactory as it turns out that 60% of the tourists coming here say they are most drawn to the country. This brings us to other economic factors that directly influence the land's survival and relate to the environment and nature. I would like to make it the final words, and I encourage the discussion to become more open and varied and to become the place in the social talk it deserves. She deserves a far higher place and a greater place.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u51	V.E.G. President. We here discuss a bill to correct a change in law that has not yet taken effect. There is a law on nature protection No. 60/2013. You could say that there was a lot of fuss over these changes. This matter was discussed at the council in its time, toward the end of the last term. Then there were a lot of agitation and wolves in various groups. Like what? paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir passed over them was a very rare preparation, as was done for the sentence of these laws. Then, when the matter was discussed at the council, a member of the council, Mörður, Árnason them to work with a great deal of dignity. He managed with a firm and ideal to bring together different views and terms so that these laws could be approved here, but because of opposition in the government stand, the execution of effect was postponed. I'd like to have fun, because of all the noises we had here, reviewing the suspicions of cars and motorcycles. There was a lot of debate and lack of faith that this matter was good and important, and it had to be changed. We have come to the conclusion that it is a great deal of peace with it, for it is not discussed in this bill to change anything in that direction. The laws to take place on November 15, 2015 are a great improvement from current law. They take into account both Iceland's international commitments and focus forward with natural interests as a guide. I think the recording went off four times. Yet, what is surprising is happy when this matter is finally presented here is not an exaggeration of major changes that are actually being proclaimed, even though there are certain points that I am going to consider. It is thought - provoking about what caused so much trembling that the so - called apocalyptic call came which, in fact, became the identifying mark of the present government, would prefer to cancel the previous terms, not just the nature protection Act, but also to cancel the prolongation and do so, and would want to cancel the tax system by step tax reform and travel in that direction. She has usually tried to undo most of what made progress but not completely successful in all cases. It's quite remarkable that after this tremendous sensation, these big words and all this fuss is put forth a bill that's certainly a lot of articles, but it doesn't really include very important changes. That's a few things. I believe it is proper to say that we in the United States receive this bill so that it is our desire to try to find mutual conclusions in this matter that we can all enjoy. This does not mean that the smaller part will fully submit to the greater part. Rather, they will be found ways that are likely to put nature first. This matter must be discussed in detail on a committee and considered carefully for visitors and for information. We will do our part to make this work the best possible. There are two things I'm particularly worried about, and we're in the United States. In fact, there are the most important changes being made in this bill. This is on the one hand the instructions for special protection and the other on the precautions. These are two fundamental issues of this law, a fundamental issue of the court that these legislation is about, the right of nature. The law states that there are a number of barriers to special protection, which was adapted to the legislation we address here to ensure a better protection from natural phenomena. In current laws, this protection is entirely inadequate and has not really provided the shelter that people might have felt should have been able to provide, such as the lyrics of the Law, but it has not. This was brought up in this legislation, but it is now to be reduced without logical support in a report. In effect, the law, with the changes presented here, will be thwarted, and the natural interests will thus be trampled on. The other law I'd like to talk about is the caution principle under the new nature protection laws to become a principle in the nature court. This should now be reduced and then the regulation on taking effect should be set up. The new law is in accordance with a law of nomadic legislation, but this bill is evading and evading the characteristics of these laws for the future, showing the human beings to stand by nature against the forces that have always remained uninstalled their success at the expense of nature. This Regulation is very fluffy and strange and very strange to take so much as to make it a matter of regulations for the Minister. I must ask a minister if there is any such policy as this. Of course, it is necessary, because this is such a serious change, that the Regulation will be submitted to the Committee to review what is actually being done regarding the precautionary measures. I'm going to try to argue that the very special protection and precautions are the basis for wanting the current government to change this legislation, and there are other factors involved, but these are really big things and the expedition has gone out of them. It's something that's distracting men who are very equipped. Now, I am a very successful woman, but I believe that the Icelanders have generally had enough of projects that have been carried out before, and a few years later they found that both operations and projects were ineligible, as well as the devastating damage to the Icelandic nature in an irreversible way. The rule of caution and special protection is a way to minimize this risk. ▪ The accountants do not want such caution, for this prevents their progress in a number of things that they think are unscrupulous, but the rest of us do not think so smart. Despite my big words about these two points, I restate that we are going to this work with an open mind, ready to seek the best solutions, but then we must also trust that we are all in the forces of nature and are working for the better of nature and future generations, not for contractors.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u52	A respectable president. I want to thank them. Councilmen here have spoken for excellent discussions, excellent tips, encouragements, and anything. I find it truly satisfying to feel that environmental factors have a rich sound basis for the members of each category, so we are now trying to get ourselves involved in some sort of sorting thing. Truly, I take to heart the encouragement that has been presented here regarding various factors. But first and last, I want to thank the people who have come to prepare and work on the billing work here. You can see that by going over the matter and working well with an environmental and transport committee, the result has been good or there is nothing else I can find. There were five factors that men intended to consider more accurately. In this day's talks, two or three points have been discussed mainly. In itself, it is not surprising that this is the rule of caution and protection, and then it went wrong. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall into the public court and the changed reality we face in terms of tourists and tourism and that we consider the value of Icelandic nature. It's a pleasure that, following this discussion here, I'm going to recommend a bill of infrastructure and it all goes together. Hv. A senator mentioned in the preceding article asked about the precautions and regulations. Of course, we are waiting for the kind of law to be approved before we begin to establish a law. The rules will take into account what will be approved here on November 15th. We have certain ideas about what to be done and in tithing it in comments to the bill that the Regulation requires that the quality of the information we want to receive regarding various administrative measures, the responsibility of the executive to provide information and pay for it, when all the information needs to be available, we need to take care of specific assessments, etc. and even governments need to evaluate economic benefits and the risk of significant negative consequences when making administrative decisions affecting nature. I think the precautions and laws are a big step in nature protection. Big step. Of course, we are not swallowing the world. That's why I'm talking about steps. These laws, like so many others we are dealing with, will no doubt be revised within no long period of time because there are many things happening. I urge men to band together to work hard and fast, as I have felt they were talking about what we've been talking about here. For that, I'm very grateful that we don't have much time, we don't have just two months to work on the committee and get reviews. There's been some details here. People have gone back to explain their work a little far back, but it's only good to say. Some also say that environmental issues are not truthful here as they have before. In my mind, the environment is actually intertwined into all other issues. We'll see it if you talk to people in other countries that they look very much at Iceland and what we're in the future about the environment, provided that we have renewable energy and other things that we have, they're looking at what we're in the long run in this. Of course, things can be done better. Environmental issues are in my mind such complex arts as when you started discussing equality, because environmental issues need to be on them to be careful with so many parts. Of course, this bill takes into account because comments from a number of sources were made and should be taken into account. I hope people don't make too much changes, but it's probably a matter of time before the committee reviews these factors. The greatest discussion here has been about these two main issues, the precautions and special protection, and a small step into the public court. I hope we see the results of the environment and transport committee coming in soon.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u53	A respectable president. I recommend a bill for the legislation on the national structure program for the protection of nature and cultural memory. On May 6, 2015, the bill is reimbursed from the European Parliamentary Committee of Environment and Transport. The review of the bill has taken into account some of the comments and adjustments made in the committee opinion of more parts and a smaller part of the Committee and the review of the bill, and I will establish the changes in my history. The bill includes the legalisation of a comprehensive policy strategy for the development of infrastructure in Iceland's nature due to the pressures of tourism and outdoor activities. The objective of the bill is to shape policies, harmonisation and priorities for such structure and maintenance for tourism, tourism, Iceland. The recent discussions of tourism and tourism have been extensive and have been called on to develop infrastructure policies in Iceland's nature. There has been a great need for such measures, and in recent years, the number of tourists has grown tremendously fast with the pressures in Iceland's nature and site of history. It is a pleasure to have foreign visitors take a keen interest in nature, and they have repeatedly shown that nature is what most draws tourists across the country and international tourists across the country. Thus, research has shown that after nature, the culture and history of the country become one of the main attractions. Tourism has become one of the burdens of Icelandic employment and suggests that the growth of this article will continue over the years, but driving around the natural world has considerable impact that we should take seriously. At the same time, the tourist era has changed, beginning earlier and stretching further into the autumn. At the same time, there has been a greater supply of winter tourism, large growth in Iceland's interest in outdoors, and now thousands of people are regularly engaging in natural outdoor activities, such as mountain walks, hikings, and bicycle routes. It can be expected that areas in the area near the capital area will be high in the immediate future, extending to rural areas in the years to come and increasing the variety of farms that had only their livelihoods of agriculture and fishing roads. Therefore, there is a great need for targeted policy measures in this article and measures to ensure that the development and increase of tourism does not affect the valuables of our country and that Iceland maintains its speciality and attraction. Thus, tourism policy needs to be maintained by nature protection in order to sustain tourism. At launch, sensitive nature needs to be taken into account and contributing to the social responsibilities needed to achieve the same pattern of survival. The largest tourist attractions in the country are also among its most precious superpowers, often peaceful regions with high protection values, as well as important cultures that attract tourists. A peaceful area already number 114 and covers more than 20% of the land's area. At the same time, only 13 national management and protection programmes have been carried out and nature is under a great deal of stress growing each year. The bill on nature protection legislation requires that management and protection programmes be proposed within 12 months of the execution of a peace description. These plans will be used for the priorities of the project management. This bill which I recommend here assumes that a comprehensive policy-based strategy for the protection and construction of infrastructure at tourism sites will be created. Such long-term schedule is important in maintaining a perspective on projects to be carried out, defined needs, priorities, follow-up projects, ensures practicality and work on the definition of new areas. A year ago, OECD presented a major assessment of the state of the environment in the country. It discusses much of the pressures of nature in tourism and how to deal with it and better coordinate travel and environment policies. Is this bill very much the spirit it pointed out to be? When the bill was submitted to the last assembly, three-year projections were expected to be submitted to the council in the form of a synonym. However, in view of a greater part of the Environment and Transport Committee, it is suggested that instead of presenting the Parliament's decision to be presented to the Parliament's Environment and Transport Committee before it takes effect. In the bill I recommend here today, this change has been made on the bill, but the evidence for such a change was mainly that the pressures of tourism and curfew are not such that it calls for the survival of the General Assembly in the form of the Senate resolution program for both three and 12 years. During a discussion at the Environment and Transport Committee, the view that it would be difficult for such a large task management that was expected when the bill was submitted to the last Parliament to work on a comprehensive long-term policy programme. Instead, a greater part of the Commission is proposed to be composed of the representatives of travel, foreign countries, cultural and local representatives. In addition, a consulting committee will be set up with public institutions, partners, and other stakeholders. The Advisory Committee will come to policy development and future vision and become a project management to advise and agree on the preparation of the 12 year national policy programme. This change has now been done on the bill and is put in place to stop the work of the project management from getting heavy in the field. Therefore, it should be said that the bill continues that the project administration should conduct consultations with government, government and rural society, partners, and other stakeholders, as well as the general public. In accordance with the opinion of the less part of the environment and transport committee, the official organisations in charge of their territory are also expected to be directly developed in the process of managing the work programme. The bill covers infrastructure with official support for the whole country, regardless of property. Thus it is suggested that local areas of the government, including nationalisations, are automatically involved in the programme, and rural communities recommend areas located within the limits of private property and prefer to be part of the programme. As a result, the rural community is responsible for the structure of the country, so it must be normal for them to be a central member in making a decision on which areas of the plan are being introduced. It also ensures harmony with their organizational activities. In this context, it can also be noted that no areas of private property will fall under the schedule unless it is agreed by the owner. Therefore, in line with this, I want to mention that in the bill, treaties will be negotiated with private landowners who have agreed to put their territory under the plan, accept official support, and keep their countries open to free traffic as detailed in the laws and regulations are required. Yet, landowners are always allowed to pay for services rendered. This is merely an attempt to ensure that independent collections of fees will not be taken in areas where the State is involved in building structures for tourists to contribute to the use of public funds in the public service. Finally, it is decided that a minister should be submitted within six months of the agreed bill, in agreement with a representative of the Commission and the Ministers for travel, national and cultural barriers, providing a public plan for building on tourist routes, tourism and tourism as a value to January 1, 2018. Clearly, the need for structure is enormous, and it is not possible to wait until the first task plan has taken effect. If the proposal for a 12 - year strategy is expected to go into effect in 2017 with the approval of the Council, it is clear that funds will not be granted until the budget is made up of that year or before 2018. Thus, a plan-based operation may begin in that year first. I believe that to ensure the protection of sensitive natural and cultural barriers that are damaged by tourism and curfews, immediate action is necessary. Now, with the permission of the president, I would like to read an explanation at 32. The bill on nature protection has not become the law we were discussing just now: 32:00. it suggests that the management and protection programme of the sites should also deal with the structure needed in the affected area, especially as a result of the use of tourism, as well as protection measures. As the number of tourists who attend Iceland has increased, the need for structure in nature, for protection, and for the culture found there has been a tremendous need for the construction of natural structures. It is normal that the national management and protection programme of national sites, which are the tools the EEA will use to contribute to the protection of the environment, should be based on structure necessary for the protection of the territory. Similarly, a management and protection programme would normally include measures desirable in order to ensure that local protection levels are maintained. This is how we combine these two bills, natural, because both are about the nature of the country. A respectable president. I've traced this bill's main subject and suggested that it be after the 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u54	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for clear review of the case. However, I must say that after I have participated in the work of the committee, I do not feel entirely clear where we are in this great strategy and organization that we have in the country. We have a lot of plans, but what the tourism is waiting for now and nature and building and another is that there is some policy in spite of all the plans we have. Therefore, I would like to ask the minister if the work that the rural society has worked in agreement with most of the institutions involved in the Management Plan could be considered. Then I just want to start by mentioning national planning policy. Also, many areas are to have a regional structure where rural areas over larger areas work a lot together. Then we have a major organization and a shared organization. How can rural society be helped to do this planning faster and then in more consultation with others in order to get things done more quickly? We now face the fact that the funds available in a tourist market cannot get out of the budget because of lack of organizational matters and making decisions, and I fear that we are about to get even more involved. Not to be overlooked are the plans for transportation that are being carried out in connection with organizational laws. Transport is one of the main factors in distributing tourists and protecting nature from road transport and other factors. I think transportation is one of the biggest projects we are facing in the transport service today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u55	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his inquiry. It is true that there are much plans for organization and mapping. The economy is a global policy, and then you step down, the main organization is for each rural society, and then we end up in a shared organization where we map accurately each box. What we're talking about right now is what it's necessary to do about the tourist attractions, exactly as the senator came in, to cover them, and to map out what is exactly what is to be done locally so that measures we make will be used to protect nature and what needs to be done. That's not in the way. Many tourist attractions thank you for the money that was now given in the spring extra. It was late, however, that there may not have been a shared organization or there was no way to get a contractor. There are many reasons why the money has not yet been divided. Since I am also chairman of the Constitution Committee, I can say that the National Park has some 156 billion. K. A little extra. The money isn't all worked out yet, but it will be done this year. It is guided by these factors in the fall. Today is also a very good period of construction.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u56	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I just want to give a little more weight to the question: Is it not something that we need to consider in this work at the Committee now whether we can assist certain societies and even organizations by incident, I understand that it is not least the government agencies that are long to answer, in order to work faster and better with the organization we already have? Has there been a review at the Ministry? Tourist officials have said that regional plans need to be made as soon as possible. Thus, the main priorities for the construction of tourist facilities are soon to be met. This points to a fine example from the Swedish Regional Organization, which has been exemplary in this regard. I ask: Do we already have this arrangement, and just have to make more use of it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u57	A respectable president. We are facing a completely new reality in Iceland today with a growing tourist stream. Of course, this calls for action when tourism has suddenly become one of the largest jobs in the country, many things that have to be done. Snæfells is a fine example of the fact that rural society has come together and convened a designated region. Snæfells is also a geographically well - off. I can also mention an example that I have done in a very good job, that is on a Chefhorn that is put together culturally, outland, and anywhere else, working with local government and government institutions. [[The president calls.]] These are both very good examples of how I want the project management of the infrastructure work. We'll get a task management that will call on the rurals and other bodies to carry out a collective organization. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u58	Madam President. Thank you very much. Environment minister Sigrún Magnúsdóttir for the history of this fine case. I don't think it'll help to take a little good with regard to tourism planning and structure. I'd like to introduce the Minister to the question of failure, because we've discussed much at the Synod's topic of peace or, rather, a lack of peace descriptions in accordance with law in the country, or are there not certain obstacles to this work that the peaceful work is going so late? A peaceful description applies to a number of areas that are sought after by tourists that need to be described and built on in order to protect. Will it not interfere with our work that we have not done our homework when it comes to the peace reports on important elements in the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u59	A respectable president. It is always shocking not to have enough money to control. I can agree with that. A team in this bill is calling for a fixed budget every year, it's kind of the main thing in the bill, that this bill about wood, the infrastructure being realized, and as its name implies, we're going to build something up. That's why we need funding. Money must be put into budgets at the General Assembly each year to build tourist areas. Before we can use it, we need to define the sites, sort them, we need to find a walk, we need to build a bridge, or what else we have to do. Regarding the peace profile, I don't see anything to say about it. We have many forms of peace on this country. What may be missing is a plan for protection and application, this map. But we now got about 18 million on this bill to put a little more energy into winning it. But I say, first of all, this bill has to be approved so that we can get a solid and secure budget every year.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u60	Madam President. Yeah, it doesn't come from safe capitals every year, both in a peaceful description and in a travel - building program. It would be different if the kindness of paying off a sink in the plant was stopped and this trade, tourism, would be paid as normal as possible. In turn, the building work on the side of the government would bring us honor. I express concern about it, as soon as I completely agree with the objectives of this bill and believe it will improve, that there will be no concomitant efforts in terms of peace, since it must have to hold hand in hand when working with the development of areas that are actually meant to be a peace description. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u61	A respectable president. As the senator's words clearly show, this sector is in the area in which it is now because governments have encouraged and contributed to the detriment of various charges and others, thus producing such rapid growth. It's just about time to look at the industry, like many others, that it's making more money for the government to have more money between hands. Although I speak here about the value of protection and parish plans, I'm certainly not measuring that we're more emancipating peace.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u62	President. This case is now presented for the second time, and there is something in other company than last since it was actually put together with a natural pass bill, which is not the same procedure. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers, perhaps primarily because an institution under or to the minister's office is a Organization, and I'm a little close to what I am. paritaprevir Will Árnason. It discusses the extravasation and implementation of planning plans at all levels, including national planning. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers because the review of the Agency's work last year shows that the Organization feels that considerable wording is needed to be made up of in Article 4. The bill, that there is a requirement for the development of a four-year project program, the one mentioned in this Regulation, should be taken into account in the strategy of the member of the Member State. I don't see that the bill was updated by that comment. The same applies to terms that the implementation of a national programme will take into account what is stated in a national structure policy in which the word is desirable in general comments by the bill, but it is clearly laid down that rural society should take into account this same national planning policy. So I ask the Minister if this agreement with the update of the bill has not been specifically addressed in the case of the Ministry. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u63	A respectable president. I appreciate that. Just as with a transport plan, we have a plan, how we're going to build up each one of us, what we can do, and when we have that plan, we'll get the funds we need to do it. The land system has not been approved. We didn't think it was natural that we were referring to something that was part of a plan that the General didn't approve of. So later on, there is something to consider.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u64	President. I may not have been asking about the local council's material conclusions, but much more about the position of policy on what is being discussed here, and you are concerned about this forest in your own way with plans and projects as rural society and other sources coming to understand and become involved. So it is in itself that we wonder whether this tool really adds something to it. I'd like to ask the highest. An additional minister, in which we have been a bit involved in building and infrastructure, may not have talked to the government to provide enough security for the quality of the work done in the construction of infrastructure, and it may be possible that certain peace-lit nature environments are built in delirium because they are walking on the nature protection levels of the area. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u65	A respectable president. If this bill goes to what? The Environment and Transport Committee will be well-controlled. I hear that the senator has excellent thoughts, even some of the ways in which we can do this better. The task management mentioned is naturally meant to be a sort of harmony, to create and coordinate things. We believe that this improvement, and especially that there is a role, a process to take solely for the building up of nature, that then there is a government to guide and harmonisation. But I share completely with the senator that it is time for us to consider the quality of structure as well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u66	Madam President. Have we been able to provide this year's project in 2003 when it comes to building tourist facilities and preserving cultural memory? The legal bill we discuss here assumes that we will create a plan for what we will do in 12 years. So this is a 12 - year structure plan, a project plan to work together with a travel minister, a foreign nation, and a cultural mine. I'm not sure that we could have seen so far in time that we could have realized in 2003 what status we would be in this year. I'm not even sure that we could have figured out what position we were in right now when the tide of tourists came. Yet, it was in such a way that it grew to a great deal. Tourist growth had been through 9% per year, followed by a sudden cycle of 2011/2012 and has been about 20% annual growth. The government that now presents this issue also set out in the last winter on natural passes, as well as in this case. Both of these issues began to be prepared in the summer of 2013 when the government came to power, and since then the government has slowly and without fail managed to reform this group, so that it looks like nothing will happen in these materials until 2017 if this bill becomes legal. After two years of employment in the Ministry of Industrial and Business, the natural pass was made so that there was no room for it, either in the smaller part or in the greater part. There was no more to him during a council, and he was actually served to the highest level. The industrial and commercial minister sought to say that it had not been her idea, that she had no more faith in the matter than that, and so it turned out that he was swept out of this place by a larger part of the council, almost all members of the council. This matter was in harmony with that issue during the last session, and it was with the same fate. I'm the opinion, after finding the work of this Environment and Transport Committee in the last session, that it's too complicated, too extensive, too much media, and there's no need to go to so much litigation with the jury. There's an old joke that goes on somehow that you should always shop with the locals where you're at one time. I think, in this regard, that's quite appropriate. I don't think there are any more valuable people than the local people to appreciate the position of nature, tourism, cultural memory. I think it's very simple. In effect, I've made a suggestion to change the local administration law, which means that the rural administrations are simply assigned to allow certain tourist sites if any cause exists, so that the companies that exploit them in one way or another will pay from that particular price to the local community, thus allowing the payment to be built up at the site in question. This means that those closest to them can decide whether to collect their fees. It is those who are responsible for the places that are coming to build up the materials involved. These are the people who are close and in the countryside of the areas that will make up the decision, probably in cooperation with the companies that will take advantage of them, of the price that would have to be paid them. Of course, this would be a temporary price, for it had to be collected only during the building up. Or how do people really picture a different system? Will some special traveller's fee be charged? Another advantage in this process is that the person who actually rides alone in his car, on foot, or on a bicycle, does not pay nothing, is the free movement of individuals to enjoy nature. People's experiences, that sense of freedom, and the experiences of people of unmoved nature would remain. I think that with one such simple change, both the work of the natural pass bill and the bill on this topic could be replaced because structure can be guaranteed, financial support can be assured in the structure. It would also be in the hands of a rural government to decide whether companies, which would be possible then to farm in that area, were afraid to pay off some particular resource resources, since visitors in Iceland, of course, are no more than resources. I feel that the government has only decided in the summer of 2013 that these matters must now be taken in place, that in itself I agree that it had to, and write large law columns to be so. Indeed, it is true what has been said in the matter of the day. Councilmen who have responded to the Supreme Court. Minister, there's a hell of a rule in the world. It is a tourist market fund, that is the rest and these institutions, that is different from the managers of a public country, whether it is national citizens, a peaceful territory, national parks, or some area that has been taken out of parentheses in one way or another. I think people just need to think this over. This system is too hovery. It is easier to put responsibility back in the province, letting those who know the responsibility for the collection and construction of the posts. This matter may be approached in a much simpler way than has been done and in a much faster way, because what is being described here takes a lot of time. I am afraid that the measures we will see in this policy plan, when the law was valid or when it was rather committed to the Council, will be no later than January 1, 2017, it is all too late. There are vital tasks that are immediately to be resolved. The government will simply have to realize that she went way too far toward the challenge she faced in 2013, as soon as the summer of 2013 began. Sadly, in the words that she started her work, she was able to make the wrong decision on how to do this. That's why the situation is small, and it can't reach land or coast. That's why they have total kaos in them. Thus, not even the money marked by earmarks around the country can be used, not just for the summer, but last year. That is why, year after year, year after year, all this terms, additional funds have been spent on budgets at the end of huge sums, the amount that is not precedentd when it comes to such decisions, making the sum up to hundreds of millions. K. The situation is simply this way today that there are hundreds of millions. K. Inside the room, because these matters have been screwed up. I simply think it's the situation. The government has to face it and try to straighten this course if it does not intend to bite its head out of its shame and blow these matters completely.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u67	A respectable president. I think it's the case we're discussing on national programmes and infrastructure for the protection of nature and cultural minorities that will benefit from the discussion and that will benefit by going to committees and not running out and coming back here and discussing again in 1st. I was originally rather positive about this matter. I think it's the tendency of all of us to get involved in politics to want to get our hands on the project, to get to the job, and to get to the job. But I think we need to stop thinking, so we need to get our hands on the project, because in that approach, there is also a tiny tendency to build a monument to be the one or the one involved and at last embrace it. There are a number of rules, as we have seen here in a fine talk. paritaprevir Róbert Marshallur, as well as our answers to the highest. Minister. There are all kinds of programs, and there are tools that rural society, tourism, and others both need to be assigned and to be used for building up. In effect, I believe that this matter is unnecessary and what we need is primarily support and support for the present rule. Then I'm talking about a few things. Let us start by doing well what we have, doing well for ourselves. Let's start by feeding with the rest of the nation's parish programmes, let's start with that. That great practice was not written into any law, there was no Minister who came to the law about who should talk to whom and who should meet with whom. It was only done, local managers, professional life, schools, the public in every part of the country met and made priorities, also priorities for building areas. For example, building a guest living room in the western waters of Lakejörg Park, a church village monasteries. This was a priority in the decision-making of national parish projects for the Southland. That was their conclusion. In order to achieve this, there was no need for laws about infrastructure or priorities. Sadly, that project has been completely undernourished in the time of the present government. It has what the locals want and what is needed to build up for culture and tourism in that area. Let's put money on a transport plan. As mentioned above, for the reviews of the case since last winter, it is noted that the territory is not enough to be talked about as an individual task; i.e. tourist attractions, tourist attractions, tourism routes and infrastructures in local areas, etc., because the reality is that people need to get to and from time to time and they need to use the transport system to travel around the country. The company's undernourished. We do not make enough progress in the minimal maintenance and development of the transport system. There, the government's aim is to give the wealth, if the word of the Minister for Transportation will become even more dwindling at this council than it was in previous winter, and though it seemed to be quite enough. Let's begin with the distribution rules of the Agency funds for tourist positions and put off the rule of protest. Suppose, then, that if the plan is clear and clear, we do not insist on opposing. That's what small communities have to do with problems. It's not that the project is not set. That is not the fact that the need is not there. It is that the management board of tourist attractions has established the rules for it to demand resistance. Let's take this thing out of the way and use the money we've approved at the Council to build up a tourist position. Why don't we just do it? Do we need the built - in laws to do that? No, we don't. We don't need the law on the structure of infrastructure to protect nature and cultural memory in order to follow the results of a peace-lit area framework 2. We don't need a new law on that. Furthermore, we do not need new legislation to strengthen the EEA in continuing its peace reports on the basis of nature protection programme and implementing a management and protection programme for 100 environmental protection areas and a non-violent region. That's what we need money to do. It's all on the basis of current legislation. What's this for when we're really starving all the legislation and all the rulework we have to build up wood for tourism and nature protection in Iceland? There is a law. It's just the will. You see, the will is in the money. That's why the threat is the highest. Ministers can get this case through the council, but there's just no money left in it either. There is no guarantee that any money will follow this issue rather than any other issues listed here. I'm sorry. I'm not gonna have this any further, more dignified president. We'll take the matter into consideration at any point. Environmental and Transport Committees, and they're taking over the reviews, discussing with the Ministry and the rest of the people who have the case. But I wanted at this point here from the debate of my growing doubts that new national legislation on the structure of wood is what we need at this point.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-23-11.u68	A respectable president. I thank the fine senators for their speeches. I had hoped that they would have a more positive view of this excellent bill. If I'm going to talk a little bit. paritaprevir Róbert Marshallur, he thinks it's too much central control, and both of them. Councilmen, too sharp. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir, who entered a tourist attraction fund. I feel that there is some misunderstanding about what we're trying to achieve here, which has to do with our last spring, for example, being given a billion extra in the construction of tourist facilities, at the last minute. We got together quickly, got from our institutions, like our fine Environment Agency, and of course we took areas on a red list there or out into orange about the need to put money there. There was not yet a map, but the areas were not fully prepared with what had to be done, where would it be far enough to be placed in a cane and a shovel in the ground. In some places it was possible, and I mention it again and again that you could see that although they hadn't got much as we did at the Tenthorn, from the point where they were divided, they had it figured out because they had completed their preparatory work. There is a desire for such work to be done and to finance, let's say, a billion a year, right away, to be known and made available early in the year or so in the autumn before spring work, and have been negotiated. I think about the protest that rural, private, and self - interest institutions had to make it necessary for them to make a great contribution now to what needs to be done. But I think this is the main explanation, e.g. I had published pictures on the TV of chaos at the Seljalands Falls that I've been wondering about, but there was not a complete division of the community, so they could not begin expanding the parking lot. So there are various explanations. I thought some interesting ideas were going by you. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall, ideas that are probably going over and down. To me, I'm not beating my chest about this bill, but I feel it's extremely necessary that any such tool exists, some harmony, that's the way it is to me. But I look at ideas like this, and I say here in this chair that I thought both of these fine senators had ideas, even though they might have been more positive, this was the subject. They're treating the situation in the best committee they're both on, I think, the Environment and Transport Committee. There people can communicate. I'd like to introduce to you that it's absolutely right that we need funding, that's what we've been through. We are somehow convinced that if you can get into this category, as it turned out in the last spring, about a billion a year, that would be much more useful if this tool is built and it works well. That's my opinion. Regarding a village monasteries, the last days were about 15 million in order to prepare for it a little better. That's what they're doing. It's not right that nothing is being done. We got a strategists to work with the local government and all their partners on how to manage it, and I think we had a meeting last night, if I know right, so I'll inform a fine senator. I know all about a village monasteries, it's a natural rural society that's somewhat fragile and really needs to get some injections. Travel is all around it, and I think we have, and I know we'll do it, to join to set up a guest room there. This is not so simple, however, that it is only possible to build a guest room, for it is naturally being spoken of in a certain level of knowledge, that will be built up a knowledge site that will provide them with government institutions, rural society, and something and, of course, a guest room for a Lake Earth park. There are many things to think about, and these are excellent examples that have been cited, which we believe will fit in here. With regard to transport, I cannot agree more, I think there is a lawsuit that you have to put more energy into, and especially because of this growing industry that has brought money into the country and made jobs but, of course, requires other work, which is relatively new in our thinking. But the main thing is, I think it's both of these matters, that we need to be careful what most draws tourists to the land, which is nature. I think we can all agree that we never do too well in these matters.
