ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u1	Borist has received a letter from 2nd Secret Service Special Forces Company. s., Áslaug María Friðriksdóttir, that she could not see her being able to sit any longer in the Allied Council as a reserve for the wind. 4th, including Smoke. s., Blöndalur H. Bjöll. Today, therefore, at the General Assembly as his deputy, Special Agent 1 of the Independence Party list, Sigríður Á. Andersen. Andersen has taken his seat before in the Council, and he is welcome back to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u2	The president wants to report that two letters have been received from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs asking for an invitation to give written answers to questions on the subject. 1189, about the construction costs of Harpa, music and conference houses, from Pétur H. Blöndalur, and on the threshing floor. 195, about the car loads of government employees, from the Brynhi of Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u3	To answer, Prime Minister, financial and economic secretary, health minister, social and housing minister, Environment and Resource Minister, and Minister of Internal Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u4	A respectable president. V.E.G. The minister of finance, president of the Independence Party, in the past few weeks have repeatedly spoken down the strike rights and, lastly, this weekend. At the same time, members of the Independence Party have spoken of the need to limit one or another strike rights and that there may well be laws to lay on strikes. V.E.G. During the weekend, the secretary of finance said that the labor movement lacked the authority to negotiate and that the current treatment of the strike court was inadequate. That's why I want a direct inquiry to the highest level. Financial Minister: The right to strike, this sacred weapon of the working man, the only thing that the paymen in themselves have to force the truth of their work, has not been a problem in recent years when we have prepared so well to have a government in this country that has been able to negotiate with the labour market's main work bases in the labour market. There was nothing missing from the labor movement to negotiate the purchases and terms of December 21, 2013. What is lacking is that the government supports that agreement. During a year and a half, she has managed to get herself out of the pay policy and to push new ones into the ordinary people and to curse the sense of justice on the average people in her country by gaining the best of their taxes. That's why I want to ask the highest. Financial Minister: Isn't it time the government began to realize that it is its own actions, its own policy and its own response to contracts of the labour market that have caused the current situation?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u5	Mr. President. It may well be that the government situation sees a lot of pressure on the job market conflict, but I think we need to realize that if it goes wrong, it will harm the whole community. I have only noted that with the recent conclusion of socialization, it is a recent conclusion, that there is the possibility of a strike at individual institutions, with the strike fund of a large company behind them in that process. It puts things in perspective, and I've called it up. I don't think it's necessary to discuss it, and I don't think people should avoid that discussion. There is no threat, and I have never announced that any strike rights will be taken away. I've never made comments about unions working in the interest of their members and setting requirements, I've just tried to direct the discussion to talk about what's practical and how we work at the same time that there's a constant price and that we're working towards lower interest. I have to say, too, that for society, I find it very damaging. You can ask questions in this discussion, right? Like this one here, I'm just asking an open question: Is it normal that key organizations in the community are taken hostage in acts of strike, as we were faced in the medical strike and as we now face? Over 100 are not treated today for cancer, which is needed for 100 people. How long should we accept it, or are we just going to have to meet the demands of the people we meet at the bargaining table because it is a normal procedure on the strike court? We have to be able to have that discussion, don't we? I'm not doing anything but that, without all the threats, I'm just trying to work for the community as a whole so that we can reach the conclusion of this business conversation at the same time as we try to avoid upset everything.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u6	A respectable president. I'll talk to you at any time. Secretary of finance on how to address employment relations. I'm convinced that the labor movement is also ready to do so, but with a natural premise, it's not in the middle of a heated dispute. A minister is a member who points to the abuse of the strike rights done by the person he is dealing with. That is a serious matter. The fact that we are dealing with today and the government cannot ignore is that the labour market situation is the result of the government's one-sided action when it cut down the collective agreements of the labour market, i.e. with reduction of hunting costs, increase in food taxes, increase in health costs. It is the changes in income taxation that best used those with most income and none of those with less than 250 pounds. K. per month. It is the legacy the government has left behind in dealing with the labour market partners. This is what has broken up the peace of a job market. It is no matter what laws are made of the strike rights, if the government is determined to increase the change, to cut down in the community, and to back off the labor movement, and to take away the rights of the union, there will never be peace in the labour market. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u7	Mr. President. This list just doesn't make any sense, I'm afraid. We won't take any income tax in the state box from under 240 of yours. K., just nothing. When we changed the income tax laws, we moved the threshold up to those paying taxes in the lowest level. When we took over, they were about 240 yous. K., they're now 310 you. K. Thus, the number of groups at the lowest level, and particularly those only paying taxes there, has received the largest tax change in proportion. I could keep winding up the nonsense that came out here. It's just not right. Our tax system changes have brought more money to the state box, that is because we put 38 billion on the fences and the financial companies that the previous government did not. It's not a problem today. Our common mission is to improve the benefits of the country. That assignment is going well. Now, it just has to be this way on the cards over the next few days and in the next few weeks that people can come to a common conclusion about continuing their biography application. [[The president calls.]] That's the job. [[The president calls.]] It is possible to do so, and although not much has happened over the past few days, the work just keeps on going.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u8	A respectable president. News reports over the past few days reflect on the importance of ethical principles, but the Minister's code was confirmed in March 2011. Bear in mind, however, that one of the findings of the II Parliamentary Commission was that it was important for the government and the Council to set up a moral code, but the Minister's code was ready and established. We haven't agreed to the General Code yet, but hopefully it's all for the better. Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, chief. Prime Minister, has been asked about the rules of ethics. It was then noted that the 2011 rules were still applicable and that new rules had not been agreed, but it would be considered, as he put it, to attack the rules. Meanwhile, the prime minister proposed a bill for a change in Iceland's Council of Government, which is now being treated. The Commission and monitoring committee, where the Committee is expected to provide moral criteria for the minister and the administration. The Ministry of Presidency will, according to the bill, give governments advice on the interpretation of ethical principles, i.e. The Ministry of Presidency One. So it is asked: Is Prime Minister's ethical code still valid from 2011? In view of the moral standards that have not yet been reassigned, I ask: Has the Ministry of Presidency taken on as soon as it is time for governments to advise on the interpretation of ethical principles, or is prime minister planning to change his mind and reinvent such a committee, in view of the lack of need in the present government?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u9	A respectable president. Hv. A senator did well to trace the history of the case regarding the Council's Code of Morality. You're right. A senator said that the rules of ethics adopted in 2011 and published in the Government News that year have been set out for the current government. Thus, ministers received a presentation on the ethics of the government, and they were part of the information directory of the Ministers usually given to new advisers. So people have had those rules in mind. It is also true. A senator noted that there is a new bill for the Council of the Management Board of Iceland, which includes discussing the rules of ethics and their roles and the importance of sharpening their role. Work has already taken place in the Presidency for planning new ethical rules, it has actually occurred before, but it also follows the history that the nature of the case will be asked by the sentence of a new protocol until the Presidential Commission of Iceland has been approved. In the meantime, they have these rules of ethics from 2011 to guide them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u10	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. The highest response was observed. Ministers for special review of the 2011 Code of Morality with the present government. Therefore, in view of the situation and the reputation of the day, did I specifically ask a minister of interest rules, since it seems that there was a significant misperformation of the topic registration of Ministers? Then I'd like to put my question to the Committee on Moral Standards: Does not the Minister count every reason to reevaluate his position on such a committee where moral problems seem to arise repeatedly in the case of Sigmundur, Davíð of Gunnlaugsson?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u11	A respectable president. As you can almost say, I don't agree with the final claim of a sledgehammer. Senator. However, regarding the question of which part of the moral code has been reviewed, the rules as a whole were reviewed, followed as a whole, and are guided as a whole. But by doing so, I do not agree with any claim. The senator's failure to comply with that rules, including those concerning the registration of interest ministers. I'm gonna give myself a second. There the senator is referring to the fact that ministers should tell the truth about their landlords. It is not discussed in this code of ethics, nor is it in any moral code that I know. But to mention moral standards in the administration. There seems to be some misunderstanding about the role of that committee. However, the institutions mentioned in the current European Council of Government, the Alleglers' agent, State Reservation, if I remember correctly, and Iceland's University on guidelines and assistance in the sentences of ethical principles, will not change if the Commission's moral standards fail to operate. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u12	A respectable president. The results of Hólmsteinn Gissurarson, a professor at the University of Iceland, are starting to peer into the foreign powers of the collapse, which is carried out by the Ministry of finance. I'm not going to discuss this particular conclusion here at the Congress Hall, but I'm going to let myself say that I'm taking it with a certain note, so I'm saying it as mildly as possible, in view of the fact that the investigator is the over-declared sponsor of the Independence Party and one of the most sincere admirers of the former bank managers the country has ever had. I'd like to put some questions forward to the secretary of finance on this issue. For the first: Secretary of finance that a qualified scholar is able to make a neutral assessment of the crash? Does he suddenly take his conclusions? What professional process is behind the decision to have the professor conduct this investigation? Is the same process available to other scholars? This is important because we want to have equal opportunities in our community and equal opportunities for our scholars to study. Interestingly, the cost of the investigation is comparable to the study conducted by the same professor and for the same Ministry for collapse. He returned the results in 2009 on the impact of the Independence Party's tax reduction policy to the Ministry. Therefore, I am curious about my response to these questions. I'll give the secretary of finance. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u13	Mr. President. I believe that it was time to evaluate the foreign influence of the collapse, and especially the enormous financial damage the domestic people suffered from measures taken, including. by government agencies in many neighboring countries, where Icelandic financial companies had activity. Consider, for example, the extensive trade in Norway by the Icelandic people; I could mention also another of the northern countries in this context. There it is clear that, with Icelandic companies, pressure came primarily from national security agencies into large financial companies. In a few months, some in a few days, many billions, i.e. The buyers. We could also trace the story to Britain and wonder if a bank such as the Heritable Bank in London was really swelling and whether it was a reason for the British government to push it off the cliff when it is 100% regained by demands on that bank. These are issues that must be part of the situation that must take place. For that reason, I made a contract with the Social Services Institute of the University of Iceland, who took up this assignment. This has been controlled by three sources, and Hólmsteinn Holimstein is among them. I don't know if that's going well. It's my responsibility to make this deal. I'm not going to say any more about the professor, but I don't think it's a good place to weigh the scholarly honor of the individual people in town.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u14	A respectable president. V.E.G. A minister has probably meant social science.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u15	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u16	It is very important that the Ministry of finance is not a social agency for members of the Independence Party. Therefore, it is asked whether professional processes are behind them and whether the application procedure was conducted to allow all to apply for and equal access to scholars. This is a big deal. It is not an enormous amount of money to put 10 million in this, but it is still the same amount as the government is now supporting relief efforts in Nepal. Of course, receiving similar assignments may be of great importance to scholars. Of course, it matters how it is arranged. This study was not to be asked if it was needed, as the primary part of an answer was the highest. Minister's in, but only if they always had access to it. [[The president calls.]] Of course, people have to ask if there's the right man... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u17	Mr. President. Of course, I meant the Social Science Institute for the University of Iceland. I don't know how seriously I should take this inquiry really. Hv. A senator chooses to come up here, undermine the credibility of one who has taken part in the task, in the long description of how he is in the wrong political position before that. A senator and that's why all of this must be very strange. It's very simple. I saw reasons to make this assessment, and I take responsibility for it. I'm getting a suitable institution, and it hasn't returned yet. This does not refer to the core of a problem that is the tremendous damage caused by domestic action taken in a foreign field. It's like whisk. A senator is not interested in that, but that is the point. Then they can try to use this platform to check men outside the society that cannot come here and defend themselves and appoint ministers or other members of Congress to do so for them. [[The president calls.]] I'm not gonna take part in that charade with this shit. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u18	Mr. President. I wanted to know if I couldn't take up the highest volume. Financial and economic secretary's debate on the ethics of the Parliaments and Ministers, who was questioned by the prime minister here. People in the community are getting very tired of all this hide-and-seek and not everything on the board as far as it goes and even if in some cases you can't escape, because it has to be that way of making at least one person. (b) What questions will be considered in the next article? An explanation of his personal interests makes it clear for the discussion, which may include. expected to work on the Presidency Committee. This is normal, it is for many other international conventions. After all, there is an increased transparency that monitoring is possible and that those who have a public authority do not use it for selfish gain. That's what it's all about, that's normal. The situation today is that the main way in which a person goes is through a moral code, which is good. It is good to have a code of ethics because it will get us started, set a set frame that can then be considered and introduced into law. According to the Parliament, there is a moral code to be set before the Council. A law on this has been given for a considerable period of time, but a prime committee has not been able to finish the matter. Then there is a code of ethics for the Council of Control, which is now gone and should only be taken into account, etc. In view of that, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister, chairman of the Independence Party, how he feels about these aspects of transparency, follow-up, and public surveillance that their public authority is not being treated for special interest and especially if the highest interest is being used. A minister believes that it is sufficient to have a moral code, to have it just in mind, to forget and disappear, or whether he does not think that there is a greater need to lead to the laws of this public security and the public surveillance of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u19	Mr. President. For some reason, I was having the right name for the agency in the discussion earlier, and I'm going to use this opportunity to say that it's definitely called Social Science. But as to ethics, they can play a very important role, and in recent years we have agreed to take them up to a greater degree. Yet, in recent years, I have seen some of the most valuable standards of the Iceland's Black Man Society, which are short and pointed, in general. They exist, but no one can really catch any human for not following them. The rules we've been implementing in the administration are more extensive and detailed, and I believe their usefulness is primarily in general agreement to be followed. However, I have always felt that I should be careful not to rely too strongly on the fact that the rules are there, that since they are there, everything must be all right. The means to show up, including Of course, from the mass media and from the public in the country, from the United States, and from the rest of the world through the implementation of the administration of the administration. He has also been doing well over the years and decades, even though we did not have rules. One thing I think we could do better at the council to ensure a better follow-up was to adopt the rule, because this is a reference to transparency, that men will adopt an interest log at the Council even twice a year, and that this is the case with the members of the Council, or with the local Minister. [[The president calls.]] If it's not done, it seems to me that it may be forgotten when there is a change in individual interests to update the rules. [[The president calls.]] We should take it as a regular rule here at the council to remind the people.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u20	Mr. President. Clearly, then, we agree that there is a moral code that is beneficial, not enough. It's like the highest. Just before that, the prime minister said that there is a moral code that is just there to guide you, and there is no need for you to apply them in particular. There must be some kind of penalties to go against what the code of ethics is supposed to mean, which is that people do not use the public authority they have in their interests. That's what it's all about. There's more wood to it than that. Now, Piratar and I have proposed two terms of this matter, one of the terms of the Senate interest registration, to make clear all the financial and economic interests etc., and, in addition, that using internal information, it can be against law and even punishment. At least we need to start moving toward that goal. I'd like to ask if a minister would think something bad, find it on his own, if we continued to put it on more legal ground and to use terms of public interest.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u21	Mr. President. Of course, I have nothing to note about defending antiquities when men misuse their power. No one needs to ask me this, it should be quite obvious. For Pirata's bill on interest registry, this discussion cannot be discussed without pointing out that such rules are available. My point is that I think it would be a good idea at the council that once or twice a year, each senator would be given a reminder: this is how your interest log is today. Is this really true, is there any reason to update, add, or cancel? I think that would do the rest of the work here at the council. In this way, many members of the administrative board are employed, e.g. On inside rules. Otherwise, by the code of ethics, I say that they are different from law and some of it as a matter of course. A senator refers to laws and laws. [[The president calls.]] Another may be moral code, which according to a different appearance is the nature of the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u22	A respectable president. We've given it to the highest. The prime minister's opportunity to admit that the advance party is going to betray their campaign code of disintegration of insurance. We've given him the opportunity simply to say that it was not required on the terms of the forwarding party for the development of the government that the insurance will be taken away and there's nothing in the government contract on bail. However, after and after his misleading statements and secretary of finance in the News magazine last week, the minister of the press was responsible for all the bad news and the outbacks of the council. Of course, this raises questions in the community. M. Egilsson's winner asked him the highest. The French Secretary of the Bjarni Benediktsson of the Explosion Agency last night, how would it be, in fact, decommissioning insurance? The government's financial and economic minister said word for word: This government partnership is not about eliminating the insurance policy. Now I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister: Can this be said much more clearly, just in the face of the candidate of the Action Party, when the highest head of the government's economy, Bjarni Benediktsson, president of the team, makes it clear that this government group is not about to eliminate the insurance? Is it not, then, that there will not be a guarantee of decommissioning insurance, that it was just left behind, that it was never made necessary? It's not time, chief. Prime Minister, acknowledging that this is so? Or it's the right thing to do after the highest. Minister of Social Affairs in the News newspaper today, that she believes the Minister of finance is just going to go to the government's approval? [[Flmrh.: I never said that.]] That is why I ask: Has it been right? It's good if it comes out, if it's not right after. But is there no hope that people and the media in the country have become amazed at the many conflicting statements made by the Government minister on this core economic issue? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u23	A respectable president. I don't know if people in general are amazed, but what? A senator is not doing anything to help get the right message to people, so I'm sure.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u24	Independents...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u25	He uses here every chance to turn around and ask me here, a respectable president, in the opinion of others, the highest. Secretary of the budget and the highest. Minister of Social Affairs. V.E.G. To correct a problem, a social minister had to summon up here. A senator who was wrong about what she would have said. However, regarding a statement referred to at the highest level. The secretary of finance that this government work is not about eliminating the insurance policy - is it not free to define who they consider to be the main focus of the government work, what it's all about? I believe, though, that there is general agreement that the government work is primarily about improving the market in the country. How successful that has been! As a result of improving the terms of the country and improving the financial system in Iceland, it is dealing with the insurance policy, as it is approved by the government on the next action in those areas. Hv. A senator can study this. It's been going on for about a year, more than a year, I even think, in what way the government will do this so that these endless experiments might go. To create some confusion and conflict that no one is unfounded, and to no one else there is a fall but a shock.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u26	A respectable president. Make up a difference that no one is! If the highest. The prime minister would have listened to Bjarni Benediktsson on a Sunday morning yesterday if he had heard a minister of finance say that the Department of Social Affairs energy was both incomprehensible and intolerable. Am I creating some sort of disagreement here? Oh, no. Am I making some kind of misunderstanding about the insurance policy? No. Prime Minister has promised abduction of bail and he intends to betray it because the secretary of finance and economics has declared that it is not on the agenda. Social Affairs reports that consumer insurance should be banned. Secretary of finance says that it is unrealistic to ban insurance and that it is merely a loan on a certain number of years in the Ministry. Is there no hope that humans will scratch their heads and wonder what is really on top of this government, what the minister of the forward party says, or what the Treaty says? Stands up, tops. Prime Minister, of oversteps in the government covenant? [[The president calls.]] Is this government working to eliminate the insurance policy or not to do anything about it, as it is?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u27	A respectable president. There's an awful thing going. It's hard for a senator to understand. This is happening, and he can look it up on the Internet by entering Google or any other search engine of a job in decommissioning insurance and looking into the plan that lies on the part of the government. However, it is quite right to the highest degree. The secretary of finance has said, the next step in this matter was to consider in particular years and especially those so - called Icelanders, to start dealing with them, 40 years' worth of money. And some talk what? The senator of some piece of energy, and there should be evidence that there is no solidarity in the government, it is such a ridiculous, respectable president that I don't think I need to go to any further work of it. It is best to show just how little is behind this endless display of authority. A senator to make something of nothing. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u28	V.E.G. President. I agree with the President that he has the program for the council, but this time it was so prominent that he took it another way, that's what's critical. I'd count to the highest. A president would be more Magnúsdóttir of completing what he had started to introduce and why. Lilja's Rafney and finish, also because of the unprepared inquiries that have been done in the past few weeks and what ministers have been here in the hall to answer. The opportunity to have a word with a minister is very important to us at the council. It is not worse if more people learn but fewer in order to follow through. I challenge it to the highest. The president finishes the discussion in line with what he said at first, but he does not accept a commission from stewards who are increasingly and more sensitive to him from the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u29	President. A respectable president had given up what. Magnúsdóttir And he can't come after them, and he's going to take terms from the state of Congress, saying that he's the only one who's the boss. It can't be the steep one we want to have around here. It is a matter of about four or five minutes, and it has been generally considered better for the person who has caused it to be handled with caution and polite rather than to use his power. Maybe he did. The president's mistake, but then he'll take it because it's a question of five minutes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u30	Mr. President. I must express my frustration that I have been presented here in a talk chair with a question to the highest degree. Minister, then retraction. Of course, it is possible for everyone to make mistakes, as appears to have been in this case, to the highest degree. The president has allowed more members of Congress to do so than expected, but I feel that the Council Board should be such that men would be able to develop the flexibility and resolve the case in this case, so that the person standing here is allowed to ask the question before, rather than bring up the discussion of the chairman of the President's Board, who claims himself to follow. I feel like the highest. Ministers here should agree with that and allow the one mentioned here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u31	A respectable president. It's always for the better. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir gets to come up here and enter the Honourable Minister for the answers to her questions. I think it's more likely than a lot less. A senator would have, for example. asked the highest. Secretary of finance to see if he would have enough of the equation in this country. You see, that's what he said this weekend, that there was enough of the equation in this country. That may be, in effect, the most serious thing that has been spiting on the lips of the highest. The minister of finance when he plainly says that society is being headed in a different direction, away from the North American welfare system to a community inequities. A respectable president. I think that would be a real challenge, since the President had already introduced himself to it. A senator was going to say something normal, just as fair to allow it. A senator asking the question. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u32	A respectable president. I don't want to spend much time in this discussion, but a respectable president must be aware that the senators have an opinion about how things are being done here so that when he makes a decision that is very obvious to what I wanted more in the hall, he would expect a discussion. Therefore, I would like to point out that, while I respect the decisions of a respectable president, if the goal was time savings, this must have been the wrong decision on the basis that we must have opinions about how we're going to have things, e.g. when they make a mistake, someone is called in a necklace that will not be allowed to speak up. It had to be obvious that the senators had opinions on this subject, and it must be natural for us to have opinions about it. Hence, it must have been easy to see in advance that we would speak up and express that opinion, the legitimate and, in my opinion, the proper opinion, of a team for the President's conference board.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u33	Mr. President. I have to say, I think it's really bad, that's not often what you can say at the highest level. Secretary of finance, and the situation today is needed, in society, in the middle of a fire, and in the highest. A minister declares that it may have been too far in terms of terms in the country. Is this what we need in our country's debates, that labor companies get it to the highest level? Secretary of finance says that the lowest wage in the country is likely to be too high, and that is why BHM is so demanding, they would likely be more satisfied if the minimum wage in this country was less than 224. K.? I believe that there is good reason for us to have a place to speak at the highest. Secretary of finance regarding these claims he made in the media recently. And I feel bad that he's gone because he should have wished to stay here for answers since I was introduced to a game. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u34	V.E.G. President. I'd like to encourage the highest. A president to let go. paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir with her unsubstantiated inquiry. This government is acting naturally in that there is a greater cause for unprepared queries than we can afford. It's a place of fire and councilmen and ministers having various interests that are being identified and needed. What I would like to point out, Mr. President, is perhaps as much why I come up here, is that there are many questions for an oral reply submitted here and three are on the program today. The local ministers are unable to answer those inquiries. So I want to make comments about it. The senator is not allowed to make his unsubstantiated inquiry and that the oral inquiries that have long been proposed are not planned today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u35	Mr. President. I'm just gonna come over and discuss this, too, because I'm kind of incomprehensible that this has not been allowed to go on, i.e. that a client did not get his inquiries finished despite the fact that the president had made a mistake in an introduction to the senator and that subsequent comments were made by us members of Congress. You see, it is half a month before you can speak to the prime minister and financial minister again, it can be brought to your attention. The next week is called and therefore not a congregation meeting, and there is no way to ask a minister about the issues that are best in the past today, which are very damaging. That's the best. The prime minister and financial minister are here on the same day, too, unfortunate. I thought it had been discussed on the Presidency Committee that it had to be put in such a way that the government's premium was here at least. every day to answer. [[The president calls.]] But it is worth noting that it is half a month before you can make up the question you were here to ask.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u36	It is true that several members of the council made mistakes. The mistake was to indicate the lead player's game when the time had passed for queries. As a result, the president came ashore and introduces the second part of the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u37	A respectable president. I'm going to ask the Department of Social Affairs for a service contract with the '78 Syndicate. I suppose we're all aware that the '78 Association plays an extremely important role in education, not just for gay Icelanders, but for society. Then I mean that a more righteous society for all members of the organization, not just those that are traditionally considered gay people, i.e. Gays and lesbians also think that they and those who even feel trapped in the wrong body do not find themselves in any particular sex, nor do they define themselves as third sex. It is of utmost importance to all of us and, of course, to the Minister of Social Affairs, not least to realize how vastly large this queer concept is. The '78 coherence, which has been a powerful grass - based organization for years, as indicated by its name, has taken very seriously the responsibility of caring for the education and training of all of us in the community. Of course, we should use the '78 Conspiracy to get into the high schools and other schools where young people meet. I think and it's my position that the map should be such that the state and the organization talked more about this educational and information role as a part of making Icelandic society a good society. Even now, the organization is already doing a huge and very powerful work, and it is my position that it is important that cooperation be accepted, and it should be done with some kind of service contract to the organization that guarantees this project and this important contribution to the organization financial support for the long future. We already know that an enormous number of individuals are involved in this educational work. Many of them come to that as volunteers. That's why I'm asking the highest. A minister whether it does not count time and importance in regard to this great role of the organization that the State makes a service agreement with the organisation that guarantees the financial basis for these important projects. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u38	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. It's as follows, with the permission of a president: With regard to the great role of the Council of '78 involved in education on the affairs of the queer Icelanders and the service of the association of these citizens, the state must make a service agreement with the organization that guarantees this financial basis? As for us at the Ministry of Health, we advertise applications from partners to projects that fall under the Department's field of Social Affairs. Strengthens are made at the discretion of the laws of the land. The Ministry has fixed rules regarding the distribution of these funding, but according to the rules of rules, it strengthens individual tasks for one year and aims to provide individual or group support, instruction and counselling. A staff group is appointed by a minister who assesses the applications and makes proposals for support distribution. Those partners who are given strength at the end of the project have to provide information to the Ministry on the results and results of the project. In the last distribution, 69 applications were received, a total of 46 members received a scholarship of 167 million. K. This is a scholarship to projects for one or two years. The aim is to provide solely support for partners up to one year, while members can apply for a year. You can apply for more than one task. This arrangement is recent but has given an excellent test, and it is with these rules to ensure that members of a community sit at the same level when it comes to granting granters of the State, that the process is open and beneficial, and that follow-up is a government - funded project. Looking especially to the '78 Associations and the important role they play in the community, both as educational and interest groups of gay people, it can be said that their activities will be a success to the emphasis displayed in the Ministry's regulations for the intervention of financial teams, i.e. Education and counselling to individuals and groups The '78 organizations have applied for and received strength for this team. In 2012 and 2013, the '78 organizations received a sum of 4.7 million. K. Last year, the organization got 6 billion. K. power to two projects, four million. K. scholarship for education and 2 billion, respectively. K. a scholarship to the project ◯ but this is a project designed to provide educational material for core and high school. Therefore, it is my opinion that we should not make service contracts with an individual association of educational organizations but maintain the arrangement that exists today, where groups apply for strength in accordance with the rules, and thereby their activities are temporarily provided with a financial basis.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u39	V.E.G. President. For the 2013 election, the Council held a '78 meeting with the candidates from categories. It discussed much, of course, the organization was introducing its activities as needed and looking for the views of the groups. I'm not going to do the highest impression. A minister who was at the meeting what she said, for I just don't remember, but I remember that there was a great deal of agreement among candidates that it was important to do a service contract with an organization like the UN '78. We've just seen one of Iceland's most beloved musicians say that it made a difference for him to be able to call at the council '78. He's just one story, I think for most queer Icelanders here on the country, the organization plays a key role and that their role in education is very important. [[The president calls.]] So I want to ask the highest. Minister if she doesn't remember this meeting. We all agreed that a service contract would be important for the organization.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u40	A respectable president. I appreciate the antiquated discussion. She's very needed, and I agree with her viewpoints about the fineness of these organizations, the '78 Associations. Of course, the Service Treaty is different. I've led members of a similar calibre and the '78 Associations, and it's quite another to have the narrow frame of planning for years or maybe a few months ahead or to have some foundation, three years or something like that, to work with. It involves staff, education, and just all the work needs to be much more developed so that work can produce the best results. I encourage a minister to reexamine this arrangement that she has set up. [[The president calls.]] It sounds fine, and I know it by my own experience, but it has to be a longer period.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u41	V.E.G. President. Thanks for the discussion. I must admit, I was amazed at the time of the Supreme Court. A minister said that she felt that it was not right to negotiate service contracts with an association. This is a fundamental policy change based on the idea when this was transferred into the Ministry and was to be put in an organized process there. It has been said of two ways to strengthen a public - welfare organization and to strengthen the position of those who play an extremely important role in modern society to protect rights, to protect certain interests, such as patients and others, that there are two kinds of contracts, on the other hand, a service contract that ensures that the same association has a basis, can play a role and serve the community in this way. In addition, however, specific projects are strengthened. Of course, all of this depends on reporting, reporting, proving that these activities occurred, etc. An example is the Fégá of older citizens, the national organization that is to be given the strength to carry out its services, the organization for special projects, so I challenge the highest level. Ministers to carefully review this organization and ensure that there will be a service contract. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u42	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion. I'd like to step into it for integrated advice because I think it is necessary for the health Ministry, both the health sector and the welfare sector, to come together and the education sector, to take on hand and to promote the education of queer people, and it is not only for gays and lesbians, but for all kinds of queer people we know today, so that people who can be met at any moment in their lives, young as teenagers, become aware of other kinds of sex than normal nor nor nor norms, at all within the school that are involved in supporting their backs and discussions. In this regard, I encourage integrating three programs to get educational material into preschool and elementary school.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u43	Mr. President. No matter what anybody says, Iceland is a good community because it is a progressive work to break down all forms of prejudice. There, government has joined various groups of members who have fought for the interests of certain groups. It's in a few corners, though it is said that the '78 organization actually worked miracles since 1978 when they were put in tune. They have managed to grasp their views in public but also in government. During the council, men have voted for laws in favor of queer people almost unanimously since the mid - 1990's. I think it's important that this sort of organization is short, I think it's important to be treated with that service contract and I have to say just as it is, I think it'll be a disaster for a lot of organizations if you just heard from here right before the Supreme Court. The minister said it was basically against service contracts. I wish for the highest. A minister explains it a little better because it is in opposition to the declared policy of this government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u44	A respectable president. As noted recently, budgets for the Associations were in '78 about 8.5 million in the last year. At the same time, the organization takes into its own groups, under the queer umbrella as it is called, more groups such as inequities and intersexers, so that the umbrella grows and the language group grows. The projects may be increased because the role of the Associations '78 and their partners is always more and more involved in helping children who have some form of social or other problem in these matters. How important it is that we take advantage of this opportunity when our society develops toward tolerance and understanding toward people who differ from other people! The most important thing I feel is that we're all different. It's okay, and it's the treasure. The worst thing that happens to society is that it is largely shaped by prejudice and intolerance. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm sorry, I don't have time for any more.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u45	A respectable president. In recent years, what a joy it has been to observe how our community has developed toward a great degree of tolerance in many areas, not just to the clients of '78 but to many other groups that were once under attack! That is a cause for joy, and it is something we should put our arms around and encourage. That's why I feel in the question of why. A candidate is a good idea that I think we should give careful consideration, especially in view of the discussion we have seen in the last days with a particular radio station and perhaps social media. It shows that there are still several members of society who certainly need better education in these matters, so there is good reason to take this inquiry seriously and the idea of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u46	President. I must admit that I always find this part of the program a bit amusing. There are questions asked by a minister, a minister comes, and a long talk on how things are - but they do not answer the questions. I think we all agree, and I think the Minister is no exception, of the tremendous role played in our society since 1978, and always with greater success. The minister comes here and assures me that the contracts are contracts for a year or two, you have to file a report, and everything good to do. Surely all of us can see the difference between having a service contract for three or five years or getting strength for one year. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Why is she against making a service contract with the '78 Organization?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u47	A respectable president. I'm celebrating this discussion, and I'm not gonna waste time explaining that it's important for the '78 organization to get money and have some sorryness in its job, that says it's pretty important. There's a lot of service contracts going on, and when you look at the budget, the subs, and this is really much hipshas who got in sometime at the right time. Some organization is on the budget, and everyone wants to get into the budget because there's supposed to be something safer. We're about to accept laws on government finance that plan ahead, at least five years of plan, and that means that all the Ministry is supposed to plan ahead. I feel alone that the Ministry must negotiate with the partners and parties they provide funds. That's what we're going to agree to, to have some sense of regret, and to guide the way we handle money more effectively. I've worked for one organization and every cent that goes into a group of members is well spent, so I'd strengthen an organization as much as I could if I were a minister. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u48	A respectable president. I appreciate the discussion. At the end, I would like to say that I was very disappointed in the way I reacted. A minister for my inquiry where it says in a fairly decisive way that it does not feel that a service agreement with the '78 Synod should be made. If we just stick to that discussion exactly, it feels satisfying that an organization of the importance, as here is meant, not just a group of members, but an organization with an immensely social function, has the position to apply for strength to one year at the same time, has the position of not being able to organize themselves and their work into the future in any way that is acceptable for a good society. I'm waiting for the highest. Minister to revise this position. Within the Coalition of '78, there is an enormously important knowledge that the organization has developed and shared into society all, not just to its clients and members, but to the whole community. I don't think that's going to work except to the highest level. Ministers reviewed this position because we are discussing an organization that needs not just a task grant to individual projects but a stable, stable, secure business and financial foundation into the long future. Another is simply not acceptable for a society that wants to be called open and modern.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u49	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion. My answer, which I think was quite clear at the end of my talk, was the answer to a question. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir case on whether the State should do a service agreement with the '78 Association, where they have such a great role in education about the issues of queer people who provide a financial basis for this important contribution. It is my opinion that a service agreement should not be made with an individual association of education but, rather, work under a relatively new arrangement, was established during the last term, which focuses on the support of a free organization. I'd also like to point out that here was a member of the former welfare minister and that minister could have made a deal if he had thought he could do it - but he didn't. We've been trying to work this professionally on the provision of support for welfare matters. I pointed out that we had received 69 applications and distributed to 46 members of society, which include an organization that is involved in our community, a project that is very important, and I think we can all agree on that. In fact, it has come to mind that members of Parliament have been discussing another free group that would have received more donations. We've increased the contributions to the '78 Associations. I hope to be able to support them this year, but I also stress that it is very important that we put a law frame around the free society that gets the money from the state. There's not yet a community bill. I would also like to point out that those members of the budget board know that the State Accounting Committee has made comments on how funding and negotiations have been carried out on various projects at the Ministry of Health. [[The president calls.]] We are working to correct this situation, and hopefully that includes it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u50	V.E.G. President. With the budget of the current year, the head of the Foreign Legislature and Independence Party decided to raise food taxes from 7% to 11%. This tax increase was called counterrequisite measures, and one of these measures was an increase in rent pay. In an arrangement between discussions, an additional amount of money came into the equation to pay rent payments of 400 million. K. This additional caption says, with permission of the president: 400 billion is a small deal to be paid. K. a donation due to increased rent-ins. The building of a new housing system designed to replace the current interest and rent repair system has been developed. The new system aims to match tenants' position to the owner of an apartment building that receives interest improvements so that the government's support takes into account the size of the family instead of the local species. This donation is a step in uniting the above sponsorship systems by adding support to tenants. It is a continuation of the policy of the former government that just raised the rent money to begin adjusting the systems to each other, the growth reform system, and the rent - repair system. However, it has come to my attention that I have not been able to see that the rights to rent have been changed so that the balance of income was increased or improved, so that it raises the question of whether the rules have not been changed, despite the added contribution. If they have not been changed, how has this contribution been set aside in equal funds? Is this 400 million used as counterrequisite measures in the increase of food taxes and the way to carry out government housing policy, or might it be that there were 400 million missing into the category that should normally have come in? Or is this perhaps no countermeasure? These are questions that arise. The system could not have been made more abundant if the rules have not been changed. That's what I wanted to ask the Minister in. If the rules have been changed, where can they be accessed? I couldn't find them at the Department's home page.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u51	A respectable president. Thank you for asking why. paritaprevir The Sigríður Ingibjörg the Ingadóttir and her interest in this matter. Hv. A senator asks how a special contribution to the branch office was made on the basis of rent payments and whether the rights to rent were changed to ensure the use of the funds. It is to answer, as it were. A senator knows quite well, that I intend to contribute for an ongoing council bill to the legal process of renting that is intended for tenants. Earlier this year, hopes were set up to produce the new housing improvement in the middle of that year, so I decided to store the material referred to in question every year. A senator would be able to use it exclusively for funding on a new housing system. But what looks like is that my plans do not work, so a new system will not go into effect until the next year. Thus, I am now evaluating whether this contribution should be used to raise rent payments in the middle of the year or whether I should request that the supply go strictly into a new building, which would certainly help to speed up its induction, despite the use of a new budget year. My position will most likely depend on the financial and economic assessment of the cost of the state's funds due to the new system, the bill being there for cost evaluation. I sure hope there's a future estimate so I can make a final decision on how this donation will be spent.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u52	A respectable president. I think we're all interested in the housing. With all due respect for what's happened. Ingibjörg Even though she asks this question, I think we're all here very interested in this matter. I listened to a highly documented interview. The social and housing minister on Saturday was, and there I could hear no better than that she did not expect this deposit bill to be expected, i.e. The bill that brings some money into the system -- I know that the bill is now changing the tenants and landlords law, and so forth, the rent -- I couldn't hear better than the top. The minister said it would be at the next assembly. If I heard correctly, I find this to be incredible, especially in the light of the big words as the highest. A minister has had the housing issues, especially during the last term. [[The president calls.]] Now she's had two years to think about this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u53	Mr. President. I have any affection for the course expressed in the words of the highest. Minister on housing matters. I've declared many times that I'm waiting for her to bring her to the council, since everything I feel is an indication that many of them fall to my ideas. I'm surprised to hear that every case after all that she's talked about is going to be a government thing. Now it's at the top. Ministers that she figures that her plan to use these 400 million just mentioned into a new housing reform system is not going to work at this council. I'd like to ask her, "Why doesn't it work out? " Is this one of the highest points? Ministers from the other board are taking a hostage? May I also use the opportunity to ask her: "When does she feel that her excellent energy oscillatings to the Ministry of finance are effective in enabling the two cases that are locked in half the highest level? Financial and economic ministers? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u54	V.E.G. President. I'm going to express concern that these funds have not come into the rent system. To whom were they thinking? These 400 million were to increase provisions for those who did not have a head drop, the people who have more rent, and the people who have taken on increased food prices. Many in this group spend more than that of their provisions for food, which, for example, had a reduction in capitalism. Thanks to the highest, too. Ministers of honesty in her reply, but encourage this 400 billion. K. will be used only now in the middle of the year to increase the support of tenants, thereby increasing their provisional income. That 400 million. K. can in no way be regarded by the Ministry of Economic Affairs or by the government as part of the cost of implementing new housing reforms. This was what was used in the budget to appease dissatisfaction, to appease the candidate party that first declared itself completely opposed to food tax, then to accept an increase, even though it was not quite as important as it was supposed to be, including. Because a special contribution was to be made to meet tenants. There is no way to betray that promise. There is constant debate about the worsening status of tenants due to an increase in rent prices. Of course, increasing the supply from rent - house service is needed to reduce it by the founding strengths in the government, but it will not be overlooked that this group that has not enjoyed the 80 billion that the highest income - income homes received 51% of them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-27-95.u55	Thanks again for this discussion, and I reiterate my words to the question. paritaprevir Ingadóttir Ingjörgdótir has been very busy talking about the premises here, and he certainly kept this minister in touch. [[Up front.]] It is a joy to find that interest around here. For the question of the why. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir of how I feel about the time, I've kept saying here, and I'll repeat that I'm ready to work all summer, and I know in the light of words that go on. paritaprevir For example, Össur's Skarphéðinsson fell into the last terms and the fact that he is always ready to be here and work on good things. [[And this.]] However, if it takes so much time for the Ministry of Economics to finish the cost so that although we finish this council, my priorities at the New Parliament will continue to be put on the premises. I think I've repeated many times. Then I reiterate what I said these days to appreciate how we should use this contribution to both the structural changes I think should be done on the rent system and also ensure that this will be the best for those who need it.
