ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u1	A respectable president. This morning's newspaper says lawman Buchheit Buuch promised that it would not be surprising if the government's plan for execution would be used in textbooks in the future. The same article says that he put a bat and a carrot in meetings with the picket heads, the methodology based on harshness or rewards. It was not easy to laugh at the candidates of the advance party when they mentioned clubs and carrots in their last campaign. Political opposers had never heard so much of others, never heard such nonsense as that such demands could be approached. There's been another one in the day. Perhaps it would be a small act in that if these same people who sit here at the council would apologize for this and the rest of the campaign. You see, the media has been holding the big words. On the one hand, I'd like to mention an interview with Secretary Bjarni Benediktsson in the Morning Press this morning. There he says that the status of the state's funds would allow room for less taxes and a simpler tax system. These include insurance fees, lower restrictions on individuals, and tolls. In the past two years, some progress has been made, but the same course will continue. The words of the secretary of finance are to be welcomed. The present government does not allow a place to improve the interests of the public. The difference between the present government and the last one is screaming. I want to end this with the words of Sigurður G. Guðjónsson's lawyer on community media yesterday. He says: "I hope the voters sense that it takes politicians with the ability to have a diagnosis and to make decisions in order to run the state. The present government does not have any demanding apps, such as Jóhanna's and Steingrímur's board. They will best be remembered for the giving of banks and the embezzlement funds on individuals, families, and businesses. [[The president calls.]] That's all there is to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u2	V.E.G. President. I'm not well at all in the laws of economics, so I'm not going to say anything about the disposal of the funds. But I may say that despite the circumstances, I felt very good at finding the harmony that existed. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson found otherwise. However, that harmony was not just a good feeling; it was also a great change from the great dissociation that has marked this terms. I trust that these economic measures will give us the opportunity to improve the public's standard of living, that's very important. We must, however, be very careful of the foolish self - gratification that characterized the financial life here before a collapse and contributed greatly to the outcome. But man does not live on bread alone, nor does a nation's life depend solely on inflation and riches. For the well - being of the nations, trust is of prime importance. A nation that does not trust governments or institutions to work for them is not at all comfortable. The European Council is a very powerful watchdog of human rights and democracies and actively opposes corruption. Thorbjørn Jagland, director of the European Council, was visiting this week. It was fascinating to hear the high importance of this politician putting the importance of public trust in the government, respect for the viewpoint of minority groups, and the independent media for democracy and human rights. We all know that there is far too much distrust in our small community, and especially for us and for us here at the General Assembly. There's work to do. We must strengthen the confidence of the public. V.E.G. President. Should we not begin right away by completing this council so that we are involved and using the summer to reflect on what we can do individually to improve the level of communication and the results of our work at the council and thus to the respect of our people for our work?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u3	V.E.G. President. There are some things I would like to consider in this brief discourse. It's about the news transfers that have been published on the basis of problems. A headline on a news story that appeared yesterday should not be affected by the Icelandic kroner's successes. In the story, they report that the Víglundsson are to be cleared without any interference from the Arnbjörnsson of the Crown. They believe that the program adopted by the government of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunollon will be presented during the days to support newly established agreements and maintain stability. Here it is well demonstrated that the government's execution programme is a complete solution based on transparency and established methodology. This is a place where the demands are spent, and finally, the interests of the public are put in first place. Also, I would like to quote the words of Sigurven Sigurður of Hannesson, a report published this morning that the government's claim that a strategy for execution based on a program designed just 2011 is not correct. The point is that the last government's decommissionment program did not dissociate them, either forgot the demands or felt that a debt deposit might be used to pay them out, as some of them suggested. The government plan Sigmundur Davíð's Gunnlaugsson Gunnulson handles 1,200 billion problems, of which 900 billion are worn off. The total solution, therefore, lies in the process of dealing with the fragments. Of course, the government and those who have been working on the current plan of decommission can be happy that more people want to take the job. It just shows that this is a good work. That is something we can all rejoice about.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u4	Madam President. I'm going to use this part of the program called The Jobs of the Council to discuss the activities of the council. It is now 12 days since the council was due to be completed according to a work programme. It has been 12 days since the project set up here was due to be finished and should have been approved by all the cases and items to be handled at this council. They don't get into a new work schedule, and unfortunately, they have the highest. The government does not comment on which issues it stresses finishing at the 144th legislature. I think that everyone must be aware that it is not realistic to complete in these days of the summer all 74 issues presented in the list of presidents of the political parties as well as members of the council. This is a bad situation for us here whose work is no idea how far into the summer we should work or just what the ideas on what we should be doing at work. This has become particularly shocking in committees where members of the Parliament have no idea what priority they should take, how to prioritize their work. In fact, this situation is now up to the point. However, the welfare committee, where we are trying to emphasize what we want to be the highest. The government is very impressed that we agree, so we don't even get answers from the Ministry to our questions. [[The president calls.]] This, of course, is a work that no one can offer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u5	V.E.G. President. I'm here to discuss the big business in the Icelandic economy. In recent years, tribulations have added to the burdens of homes, and many have found it difficult to cope. In the leading of collective agreements, national agreements were called after the ideologies, three-way cooperation of the labour market partners, and the government. Now, the Government of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunnugason has reached collective labour agreements in a handsome way with a pack of action in 11 teams, with special attention to the most efficient and intermediate groups. The changes in income taxes include an overall decrease of 16 billion which will increase the provision of all candidates and will cover 65% of the paymen's income as an example and increase their resources by 50 in 50◯100 you. K. every year. Then, in cooperation with the European Union and the labour market partners, the government will contribute to the rapid development of housing markets and housing initiatives for income - rich families. A respectable president. Thus, the government has made a handsome reply to the cry of national society in collective agreements. At the same time, the government has been proclaiming a plan for execution, which is probably credible and historical, so well developed and sophisticated, so extensive that it will be the future textbook to quote Buchheit Buuchy. The employment market members, the President of ASI and the executive director of the Association of Employment Act consider the plan to relieve Icelandic employment, to support new labour agreements, and thus to rely on the basis of stability. It is clear, more dignified, that the government of Sigmundur Davíð Gunnuga's Gunnlaugsson is standing at the big words and finishing the big things with their homes and stability in the foregrounds. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u6	Madam President. I decided, in the cause of the words that fell here before and before. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson prides himself, taking over only the government of this country today. Today's Web News reports that according to an economist study at Cambridge University on the impact of the British government economic policy on the major aspects of the economy, neither did the tax reductions made by the government of Margrét Thatcher nor its contributions to the regular work of the economy. This is at odds with the beliefs of those here on economic issues today, and of course, we know this song especially from independence. However, it is not to deny that he is being subjected to a considerable deal of authority. As the article explains, the clearest impact on the course of the Thatcher and its follow - up policy was being followed by more and less of the same economic policy on the increase in income and possessions and unemployment. Despite these strong evidences that this is an empty cave and will not be useful to anyone except those who are in high station. The secretary of finance Bjarni Benediktsson declared that he will make use of the space that will arise in the important issue that follows, the release of the ocean, in order to continue reducing taxes, despite confirmation, including the fact that the matter is now under way. In the study of these economists at Cambridge, that it will reduce economic growth, increase unemployment, increase income and possessions, and reduce public standard of living. However, this will temporarily improve the interests of a remote group of rich people. But it's probably too late to save both Bjarni Benediktsson's son and the independence people here, since they didn't seem to wake up when there was a collapse and still sleep.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u7	A respectable president. Despite good news and solidarity at the Synod on stable taxes, there are some pressures in society. The lowest temperature in the ocean south of the country for 18 years is fact, and it looks like the mackerel will show itself in the summer in Iceland. The country could be 20 billion in exports. That reality is now a product of billions of projects, even tens of millions of dollars, on account of investments to catch and work on a mackerel, an enormously serious case. There's more disturbing news of hunting and processing. The lobsters are off to a very bad start. In the first few weeks, lobster manned almost 10% of what was caught at the same time last year. Actually, hunting on a lobster is not new, but it beats every previous record. They need to be examined to see if they need not be protected beyond what they can do. It is also during the following days that Silicor of Grundartanga will become a reality. There are 500 jobs on the line. The export value of macroils is doubled, and it is extremely important to a respected president that the General makes it possible for that factory to be built. The same is true of the extension of electrical agreements with firms on GAM. They are in a position, and it is vital that these matters be resolved in the days ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u8	A respectable president. As far as Húsavím and close-ups are concerned now that projects may be beginning with Bakka on a major project that was run through the last council with our consent to the present in less part than offered by the Left Green and the United States, by the government groups of that time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u9	That's proud of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u10	However, in connection with this project, which has received the greatest appeal to all major industrial initiatives in the country so far, the employment committee has been asked to make changes in terms of a planned program of 1,300 billion. K. and a professional employment committee will need to make adjustments in this case of 1,300 million. K. extra savings. This can be said to be an open market for large - scale personal items from the left categories in this grand work. All this discussion has a way of being bisexual. This project was supported by the left categories that are fighting to put a stone in the street of the fortress in lower Tues and a stone in the streets of the normal frame process, with the consequences it may bring. The result is serious for the community, not in Húsavík, although in this case, since it has been the construction of Theistaremory, the apocalypticists are starting with the blessings of the left categories, and representatives of these groups hope that there will be a four hundred and fifty thousand and five thousand megawatts and will build up more large trades in Húsavík. At the same time, they build up a stone in Helguvík and on suspects. That's it, like it said by a dog. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson before, valuable value at stake. Silicor's factory will have about twice the value of macroil in export costs, virtually the value of stocks being exported, 55 billion a year, except for all production jobs. The same is true of the projects in Helgavík; they are extremely important. [[The president calls.]] It is quite clear that if a frame plan doesn't go through in the way that most of the employment committees have proposed, these projects are upset and quite clear that they can't all go through. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u11	Madam President. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson is late going to understand what the framework laws are about the protection and use of natural resources. It's not working well to get that understanding, but it's just gonna have to be. It's never been more important than now, when this kind of pressure is being passed by the framework we've all agreed on here at the General Assembly because of the pressures we've had on individual companies, plants and other major activities, energy-efficient industry, that we're covering this professional process that we've all agreed on here. It was named here by the tray and Theist smoke that drains the energy into the plant of Bak. Théologs went through the professional process of a frame plan and were put into a novelty party, so that's just what it is. We also have a total law of law, or it's before the council now, in terms of an investment in the new investing of an enterprise, and that an enterprise goes under the framework of the council that is not taking one and one company into this council with an investment agreement, as has just recently been done here at the council. It's so important that we respect these processes, whether it's the frame law or the penal code, which will hopefully be approved here at a council in the days ahead. We must not give in to the pressures of the individual party in these substances, that is not acceptable. Of course, nature is so important that it must be guarded, it has no spokesmen other than those who want to respect such a professional process that we shared by accepting a schedule at the time. I don't understand this attitude, big-men's attitude, I want to say, always think they can do something by hand, connect with the lower deck wound of some power plants they please. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] You need to be patient and wait for what comes out of a novelty class, the highest. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u12	V.E.G. President. In the morning, Iceland's Seðlabanki just once surprised a latecomer by raising his steering growth in Iceland by 0.5%. First, I have to admit that I don't understand how the Navy expects companies who have just signed agreements with their employees, collective contracts that are certainly going to be taken seriously, to live up to the better ones that have now been approved for a good healing, if that is so to be done with interest. [[Up front.]] The decision made by the Federal Bank is also a source of concern. Two fine men have taken their stand, pointing out that by making this decision, the late bat is fueling a flow of foreign funds for growth. And these aren't half the men of Ásgeir Jónsson and the president of ASI, Gylfi Arnbjörnsson. With President's permission, Gylfi Arnbjörnsson says this morning's interview: ▪ Today, people are looking for ways to solve the money policy of 2004-2008, which ended here with currency heads. It appears that the zebra is determined to restore this situation by sucking in here foreign funds into growth trade, in an operation to result in a stability of the economy. I thought they had learned something from what happened here eight years ago and in the way of it. It does not seem, however, that the Councilman learned anything. And I'm going to say that again here, a respectable president: I'm going to get some information about what Iceland's Secretabanki may not know, since it's already 0.5% trajectory since 2006, if I know what it is. [[The president calls.]] This is an incomprehensible decision, Madam President, an incomprehensible decision.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u13	A respectable president. I would like to discuss here with these teams some positive things that have been going on during this term and, if all goes on, will continue to appear to us. I'd like to first mention the reduction in already existing taxes, e.g. about 5 billion tax reductions in the middle tax phase. The insurance bill has also been lowered, but in the past two years it has fallen into budgets, and this reduction will continue. We've canceled the product fees and dropped the top level of the merit tax, I'm not talking about the debt correction and the remuneration that has been negotiated for the past year and the tax declines and the removal of customs that are further declared. All of this has greatly increased the financial resources of the households and will continue to do so. Then there are the positive news we have received during the past few days about the past and how the council is going to cooperate in this. This is all to create a positive outlook and to promote positive developments. All of these good things we need to make good use of and secure here at the General Assembly and keep it from repeating what happened in 2007 when everyone was borrowing 100%, as other members of the council have mentioned and concerned. That's why I think we're supposed to create as many people as possible to save money so that people start saving money, e.g. as we are doing with our special savings, making taxes available for those who pay off debts or who are gathering for their first apartment. It is important to carry on with this, and this reduces the need for the Council Bank to raise the management interest and other factors, and the cost of the households will be reduced, so this is very important. Finally, I would like to encourage those who have anything to do with their provisional items, such as Sigvaldi, the police officer on the rounds along the way north, and do well if possible. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u14	A respectable president. I'm sorry to hear that someone was laughing at candidates in the process of making the last election, and perhaps most of all because people there were talking about bats and carrots, especially in the light of the fact that we too were in the government. This is made clear in the media of the period in which we are considering the need for the use of microchip and yellower techniques. That's what was a laughing matter, i.e. that people don't agree on whether to use whips or bats. A respectable president. You see, in all this matter, it is such, and it is a joy now that we called after the times of our Common Era that there would be a parapolitical solidarity on all these matters. And it can be found if they look back at the media. For the past two years, people have been trying to make something else, i.e. people have been trying to create conflicts and conflicts about emissions issues, but now we seem to be getting together again, and people are in a circle about it. That's the positive part of it. But the current government, and the forwarding party, has decided to take the form of negotiation that was being done in the leading of the last election, a respectable president, it will be discussed better later, and those who are restless here in the hall will be able to discuss the matter there. [[Foreground on: No.]] [[Up front.]] It's just that way. The conclusion is that we can fully get together in it, in the past two years. The time and money of an enterprise in this country have been wasted while swindling down what the move team said in the conduct of the last election and trying to create some pretty PR album so the forward squad could get some standing on the feet out of going now as the advanced government worked during the last term. [[The president calls.]] [["No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u15	A respectable president. That's not one-armed bullshit. The United States vice president, must be told just as it is, that it is being taken the way that the Conspiracy was involved in the de-exploitation of a penitentiary. No, let's just leave it there and let people have that opinion. [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]] Hv. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir talked about it earlier that it was important for us to follow along. She spoke of the law of will, which is here for release at the council, in support of her case and that we should not go beyond the boundaries of law and that we should follow these procedures. [[Up front.]] But because we were talking about Bakka, the investment project by Lilja Rafney Islands and associates in the left categories is far beyond those heredity laws, which would never have been contained within the terms of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u16	Are you against Back?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u17	It has been necessary for the task to be set aside by the law of will, exactly all the billions of people the State is giving in order to fulfill this commission. This is the divinity of the lawsuit, a respectable president, of these people who are willing to support this case. Because it fits the ideal example of the former president of the left-green Steingrímur J. Sigfússon's son, who brought the case into the council, that's all right. Now it's all right to do it there, but when it comes to other terms and other things, you get involved in something, and in some way, and you're gonna blow it out of their heads, and then you're gonna blow it out of their heads. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] They do not themselves understand what they are talking about. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] Of course, there is a solution in this frame, since people are calling for it, they can take it back, and things have to be moved back in the fall. [[The president calls.]] If the case is to be followed by a minister, this is a challenge for a man to follow the procedure, and to recommend a change of perhaps five or six options. Then it's all been fulfilled, and then we can take care of it in October. Five or six activations, I would be quite ready to check on this. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u18	President. I'd like to draw the attention of a president that it was supposed to be on this program as part of the House of Congress. A certain group of members of Parliament learn of this discussion, others not. I hardly think it appropriate, Mr. President, for men to use their speaking lesson in such circumstances and to name and slander other members of the council. I think, first of all, that the president could make comments on such a lawsuit, and second, it is not acceptable that members of the council should be subject to it and sit under it, dead as it is called in discussion, not being able to carry hand in hand for their heads. [[Take up the front: Hear, hear]] Of course, I don't really jerk off with the shit suspensioners from what's happened. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson and I will have an opportunity later to settle the accounts if this is so, but I'm more concerned that this sort of thing is not tolerated in the council, that such low, unboyingness, should weigh that men who cannot answer and who do not have the same speech course are tolerated. Of course, shame is a cause. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u19	A respectable president. The truth may be the most angry when we discuss it. I said nothing more here than has been mentioned in this public assembly hall when it comes to districts and the emphasis that men place on a project in their own elections. It is obvious, a respectable president, and it does not have to be taken to any grave fault. It may not be unnatural in itself. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon has chosen to place much emphasis on building a great deal of business on backwater. There's nothing unnatural about that. I supported that situation, and they welcomed their support. When I declared support for that matter, I was not asked to go home and make myself grow a bar and show up in these extended pants. No, it was welcomed and supported by independence men and forwarders. I'm primarily pointing to the divinity of the lawsuit of these classes, the respectable president, who is so crying as we discuss a frame plan of action, the activation of the sub-Transian centers in The States, and the construction of energy efficient industry at Húsavík and the possibility of a suspect or south of Helguvík. [[The president calls.]] The bilingual language is a loud, respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u20	V.E.G. President. I just want to talk about the President's conference board because it's clear that there are two people that will be able to get along with the council's work, the same man as any other man. Jón Gunnarsson, and it's not wrong if the Independence Party chooses to put him on the field, but then I'd like to put only in the context of this discussion that he is exalting on Backka. It has been promised, including In fact, from 2003 onward, forwards and independents are being completely started, even at a time when they looked at the clock and said that it could be only tomorrow. Now it's time for me to understand and I think it's a bad idea. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson with threats to action there and what needs to be added to the hospice agreement after the transportation initiatives needed to be done in these teams are completed and he actually threatens them, thus putting it into practice, that if you don't get comfortable in the framework of the changes that are being made, which are in accordance with the law, you should just wait on it and upset it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Okay, Mr President, it's just an independent party offer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u21	President wants less of it. Councilmen are to be held, not particularly on grounds of less urgency. Congress members are expected to consider, not the material discussion, but what is called the President's conference board.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u22	Mr. President. Here was a big news in a talk. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son. We've been here for days and weeks in a very serious debate within the council on how to handle his decision on a framework. Hv. A senator declared from the General's symposium that he could well think of the benefits there will be only when the project is returned and things will come back here to the council. I think the highest. The president should accept this offer. A senator hands and works on the basis of finding a reward in the issues of which the issue has been the most issue. I just want to thank you. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son for the continuation of his sincere reconciliation with people here at the council. Then I'd like to say as former minister in the former government that I'm proud of the entrance of the government to back, but what. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson has to clean up his door. Now he's turned against Back? [[The president calls.]] Will he resist the building on Back?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u23	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with what has been presented here, and it's very important that there is a proposal for a frame proposal taken off the program three weeks ago that I reminded them and that they were going to try to reach some conclusion in that discussion and to continue in the rest of the Senate work. Then, as it happens, the head of a professional committee and the head of a group of people who have taken the lead in this case suggests that the proposal is drawn back as it takes place, i.e. both Impulse activation, which is the suggestion of the Minister and the other adjustments. [[Foreground on: Yes.]] [[Foreground on: Yes.]] That is, in the spirit of what has been discussed and cast out of the ruling position, i.e. that all differences are put aside in view of the fact that here we are discussing very important issues of emissions, and we resolve to take a deal that is agreed on and where there is a very strict deadline. Other matters are put aside, and the Council's work program is long gone. [[The president calls.]] I want to celebrate. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson proposes this idea, asking a respectable president to listen.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u24	Mr. President. It is just common courtesy, under these teams of the council, that if they are going to talk with other senators, carry on with them some sort of charge or such, they will alert them and have a word with them about it so that both can find out and get their answer to this team, and have two minutes, instead of having to be exasperated in a minute's talk. I got into it myself with the wind. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson. I spoke to the House of Independence Party members and asked if this was the course of the party, that men no longer invite other members of Congress to be able to answer for them if they were to have a word with other members or to bring any charges against them. Hv. Class president of the Independence Party, Ríkharðsdóttir's daughter, said: "No, it's normal to allow men to do this, and it's not the course of the party that men don't do it and that they don't just general courtesy, of course. This is indicated by what we have been taught here about good manners and good order, and perhaps the president of the council should inculcate it in the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u25	A respectable president. I want to make a serious remark to that question. paritaprevir This is Jón Gunnarsson's turnaround. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, carrying him to an extremely indistinguishable viewpoint and a ball for decisions at Backka and not to offer him a reply. I want to put a bullet in my head. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon recalls that it was the industrial Ministers of the Union that were involved in securing the construction of the Backkas, and eventually it was the United Nations secretary of finance that held that case through the council, just as it were. We're proud of the construction of Backka, and although independents show that they're ready to make some bargain at a horse shop here in a Senate hall, we're not ready to do that. We're proud of the building on Back, believe it's done well. Finally. I don't like the idea as much as I do. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson was on hand to offer up Hlammism in his horse trade too. I think it's better that we come here to the original motion of the Minister himself. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u26	Mr. President. We have been discussing the recent program of the council, and we have been concerned with a measure of concern that has brought about as much important as release into the conflicting atmosphere here at the council. I believe, Mr. President, that there has been a very clear way in which the problem lies with the council, where the lines of conflict are, and who is holding up the challenges we face here. Here we go. The head of the trade committee, where the two major issues are that have not yet been negotiated. He's got his fist up and he calls people evil names and blames them. I think that, Mr. President, is such a clear example of what we live here at the council and what atmosphere we draw out of the sea, which is a great interest in our nation and people. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u27	A meeting manager. That's the interesting contribution of a senator to peace and reconciliation. Jón Gunnarsson's son, to withdraw the proposal on behalf of himself and the Minister for the future. It's supposed to be a celebration, which makes it easier for a council that the president intends to use for the commercial weekend. However, the suggestion would have to be explained a little better, since there have been several different interpretations. The most obvious and obvious thing is that he is doing not only retracting his decisions but also the minister's suggestions on how to strike as a whale. A senator and his colleagues in a large part of the professional committee have been stalling for the entire winter. As the environment, I welcome it. Although I submit to the process of a series of HQs, I don't like them. I think that in effect, the senator's criticism of the lack of energy because of the opposition to his group's change proposals was lost when he now plans to delay the whale healing of an additional summer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u28	A respectable president. There was a time when we were offered a conversation about how we could complete our congregational duties. That's when the President's conference board and why. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, who seems to be running things here. I wasn't going to talk about the President's conference board. I was going to discuss the release of Hash. But I was so scared. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, he spoke as if it were the easiest thing to do in the fall, including whale - healing, which he has already delayed for six months in the council. It could have been concluded in December. Now he intends to throw it even further into the future. Who's delaying the national energy supply, a respectable president? That's why. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson and this government sector. Second, I'd like to mention, too, that it's not possible on the side of the United States that the tray will be here for any trade. There was a good agreement on that matter last assembly, and I thought we were going to finish it. I rejoiced a few days ago when all the signs were lifted. [[The president calls.]] It's about to start, but then it's time. Jón Gunnarsson is happy to talk about something that can be dealt with. There's no way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u29	A respectable president. Here's a lot of wood coming up next to you. Members of the minority party, such as their language, are ordinary. When did I present Bakka as a commodities in my speech?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u30	Just now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u31	[[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] I was just pointing to their language in a double - skind fashion. We stuck back, didn't we? Didn't I say I was supportive? Of course, I support Back, but I will be eager to observe the votes of senators left green, Pirata, the bright future and the United States when it comes to accepting this change. I'll be sitting up and watching their votes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u32	See it in the fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u33	Here was also the context of what I mentioned earlier on how we could possibly talk about taking it back in the frame plan, but that would be in order to follow the form that is myst known to be fully fulfilled, but men don't agree on it. This would be in order for the minister to make some adjustments during the summer and bring in some additional priming options in the fall because if the case doesn't go out at this council, we'll be left to finish the results from this project management. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It then turns out that the majority - power ministers who have all been behind the changes to a greater part of the workforce will in line respond and make adjustments that are consistent with this. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u34	Mr. President. I don't quite understand this comparison between the construction of Back and the reason. A senator is fighting for taking a few options past the frame law. I don't understand this context of the parts, putting it together like this. He chose to deposit my lawsuit earlier, where I warned that a body of Congress was under pressure to go past a law of law that he himself has approved because big people are knocking on and trying to get paid energy to build a fortune. We have to resist that pressure, huh? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, no matter where we stand. We, who accepted Bakka back in his day, agreed that he was going both into less industrial activity and also because Theist smoke is a novelist class but, for example, not a lower part of Þjorg. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u35	President. It is clear that we are not at the Allied Parliament but at the General Assembly. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son. This is remarkable, but here we have worked very hard to reach some frame on the subject being scheduled. But the senator is so dear to be in the limelight and has caused the inside of him to upset everything. [[Up front.]] We're at the General Waffle. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son, but not at the General Assembly of the Icelanders, and there's absurd, President, how much this man can do in here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u36	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson comes up here for the second time and confirms what we said before, i.e. that he is willing to postpone something in the fall of decision-making on the whale explosion that is the highest-resurrection proposal proposed by the council. Environment and resource minister. We've been talking about her paying votes, but what. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson is going to delay the realization of decisions made by the Project Management Board through the council, all in order to achieve his own initiative in the activation options that the project management has not approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u37	They're...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u38	What does he do, too? He comes here and says, "I'm backing back back back back, but it's best to create a bit of exhilarating around that project, so it's more difficult for us to get through the council, and people can go to the corner and to the mollusks with it in the final meters. That's what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson is doing it. [[The president calls.]] This is not accomplished by anyone, especially members of the United States and Húsavík, who have been waiting for this vital building project for years. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u39	President. Perhaps it should be given. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son may be able to come into his chair because he is discussing matters there - perhaps we should make an exception to the people. [[No, I can't...]] [[Up front.]] Hv. A senator gets an exception to all the laws and regulations, procedures and grounds, as he called it earlier that we've agreed here in one word, some of them. In one sound, the frame law was accepted. Now is the time. A senator, in effect, has to put him in an ice bath, must cool him down so that a body of Congress can discuss one of the most important matters during this most important period, the release of a waste, or a relief. He always puts it in. It's strange when it comes to what. Senator, he always throws in. Earlier, he was threatening the government in some way, but now he is threatening the highest authorities. Minister of the environment, threatens him to retract this proposal, both his own and the proposal of the former environmental minister, Sigurded Ingi son of Jóhannsson, against the Supreme Court. umhverfisráðherra minister Sigrún Magnúsdóttir breaks the legislation to which she should serve and bring five, six, seven, eight initiatives into the council í the boð of John Gunnson in the fall. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u40	A respectable president. I'm wondering if there was a decision in the government camp to let go. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son out of the house and let him snoop over here and scream out the creeps. [[Foreground on: No.]] [[Up front.]] He's been a bit slow these past few days, but suddenly it's like he's been getting new fuel. I'm wondering if there's a strategical decision because you're always trying to figure out where these government groups really are. In case of a moment. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, director of the professional trade committee, is that good, and then let's talk about that, according to the timelines of project management programmes, suggestions come from the professional groups in February 2016, September 1, 2016, the project management will be returned to Ministers and on November 11, 2016, its minister will submit a proposal to the General Assembly, and I will support the procedure.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u41	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson is not a pacifist, but let's not hide that this is a matter of time. They're trying to buy time, huh? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson is trying to buy the time again for the inventors they lost to the Guardians during the last term. It also used tricks. On the other hand, what's important in this matter is that we don't break the box, the framework, that's the most important thing. It's a long-term policy interface tool. If this proposal is retracted, probably it needs to be done by the Minister's secretary to withdraw the synonym of Hagming, delaying the whale activation for some time, but the activationists may still be able to buy time by being more active, putting it forward now, and taking in these two lower challenges according to the Environment Department's Environment Department. Then they'll get some more benefits back. It's just a decision they have to make, but the important thing is that we don't break the frame law. [[The president calls.]] It seems to me that this way would guarantee it. Let's just talk about it honestly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u42	Mr. President. The leader of the Independence Party must decide what. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson as the day's employee for selecting this exact moment, leading the dispute, to come here and make the scene for another cluster bomb. [[Take it up: Keep the minister of finance away from the platform.]] Hv. In one minute, a senator was able to threaten the highest force. Environment Minister, highest. The president and then all of Húsavík's efforts to counter the project of construction of the existing Backcoats. [[Up front.]] But it has to be said "what." To congratulate him on coming here the second time, he did not go so far as to apologize to Húsavíldur, as he should, but at least restored his former opinion. What caused me some grief was that he also withdrew the reconciliation he had made in an effort to create some basis for peace in a council. I felt very sorry, and I must say that I haven't had the opposite of anything as easily as I have. þm. Siggi Svandís said when she said that. A senator would have been at peace here last week. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u43	A respectable president. I want to set things straight. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson told us about the future's stand. We sat by Bakka's desk during the last term, just because we thought it was late and that there was not enough information to be built on so that it was being handled. Then the rest of the Senate must begin to realize that sometimes it is that way. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson that he wakes up like Láki in the morning and thinks, " Today I'm gonna say something really stimulating. [[Up front.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Then while others give talks, he sits in his seat, and is never as happy as when the government situation is here to be ashamed of what he has been saying. [[The point is: There is something to do with it.]] Never so happy. It's almost cute watching. [[Up front.]] The rest of us just need to learn to ignore this because it's completely meaningless. [[The president calls.]] There's nothing to figure out.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u44	A respectable president. I guess we all agree that the following part of the program is one of the most important elements of this terms. It has been said that before this discussion began, there would be an agreement at the council because everyone wanted it to be peaceful and not by the way that Dak is often in the chamber. But, frankly, the more dignified presidents are going to be throwing in here, if I may just say so, I apologize for the language, you piece of shit. Then I suppose it's expected -- as if we haven't made much noise because this case is going on right now, despite the fact that we didn't follow what was being left on, so I don't speak strong - that we're also letting this happen to us, a respectable member of Jón Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u45	Mr. President. Do we not agree that success, so ironicly speaking, is beginning to get worse? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son, if he believes he is bound to make suggestions for other men on the program of the council, even a form of government? That power has a why. Not a senator. [[Up front.]] He may have opinions about this, but he does not have the authority to take a matter of Congress from the council program. What the State owed to do on Bakka was to invest in certain structures, in part by the countryside, for a long time in the future, on ports, and on roads under Húsavík, which will be used for years to come. It's an internal investor that I thought there was a fine partnership. Sadly, part of the work turned out to be a significant miscalculation on the roadtype. In part, this is cost - saving, 400 million of these are simply new prices, and other factors are that have reevaluate the costs of a tunnel that is shallow, allowing for more funding, etc. [[Take it up to 200.]] But the State is committed to doing so and had already made a commitment to make that contribution. [[The president calls.]] To begin doing so, then to make a point here that the state is in the process of making contracts and mixing them into other matters is just below all caves. I pronounce my most shameful shame on the march of long ago. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u46	Mr. President. I don't know what they discussed at the council meetings of other political parties, but the organization was discussing how we could create a setting so that peace of mind would be present at the moment. Councilmen and concentration to put themselves in the big issue of emissions. We discussed this at our assembly, but it seems that the Independence Party has only sent a sledge. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson to pick up some dust and create an atmosphere that scatters the mind from these big subjects. You wonder, " What is the point? ' What is the purpose of this? [[Up front.]] True, it is the highest. The minister of finance and economic Affairs, president of the Independence Party, entered the hall, but the Speaker of Independence went out of the hall during a rough time. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson went around with his bad mouth. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking myself, Mr President, what is involved in this behavior just before we're taking care of these big cases?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u47	V.E.G. President. I'm not gonna make back into publicity. On the other hand, I serve as a basic school teacher, and we use a child - rearing method called positive discipline. I'm thinking about volunteering for one year here to take some senators as a teacher of that subject. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] But I would like to make it a subject of national interest that we are discussing one of the nation's largest interests and that we encourage the government to do so peacefully and well, and we have a view of Jón Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u48	Borist has requested that the session 2 and 3 be discussed, as 4 mg. 77st. Parliamentaries, who are physically related. Let it be considered approved if no one says the same thing. A meeting is scheduled for 30 minutes the first time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u49	A respectable president. Now I recommend two law bills, a bill to legalize stable taxes and a bill to legalize a change of financial law. Both are key elements in the pooled budget for emissions of capital waste introduced on Monday. If the law is used by these bills, it will help deal with the problem of the sufferers of fallen financial companies, but it will also mean that the population of the fallen business banks or savings funds that have not been granted a fixed contract for the next year's contract will be paid stable taxes. In addition to these legal products, the Council has published a notification on the release of capital controls based on agreed disposal committees, based on stability conditions or the framework of optional measures that break-in financial companies can take place in order to complete the labour agreements and then, in the subsequent payment of assets to the claimors, without adverse consequences for stability. The National Bank reports that at the time of the release to the level of fallen financial companies, Iceland's Secret Bank will view the policy of stability on which the tax is based. In this regard, the Navy will take into account the potential solutions of the problem, which have been identified in the information exchange of the EEA's budgets and the representative of the demands and fragmentations to make measures that will reduce the negative impact of reimbursed assets in the Icelandic Union, that other domestic holdings in foreign currency will be turned into long-term deposit to the extent needed and guaranteed, in the case appropriate, to lend money to the government in foreign currency that was paid in the following financial collapses will be reimbursed. Later in the year, the second stage of the program will immediately be carried out, which will solve the problems so-called deportations. At the same time, efforts will be made to increase the individual's freedom to capital movements, as well as the investment rights of companies and pension funds. With increasing economic strength, capital master will be fully released. There is then a transformation of economic conditions that will reduce the potential negative effects that national action may have. The Secular Bank has, on the other hand, increasingly taken into account the cost of its rules and financial standards and has taken place and improves the government's perspective on the risks found in the economy. The economic role of public finance is greatly strengthened by the legal sealing of a government bill on public finances, as well as for the General Parliament's prime products that provide new instruments for the global government of the financial system, called national economists, both in the bill for changing the law on growth and security and the bill for changing financial law. It is clear that the framework of the financial policy and the state of the budget remains ablaze with a much more reliable budget than was for the failure of the bank and long-term economic management will be more efficient and effective in dealing with the system's risk and/or fluctuations in the economy. The Monday decommission program is based on the work of an advisory group appointed in the fall months of 2013 to provide proposals for the individual steps and programme of emissions and on the work of budget-exploited persons who worked a year later, in the summer of 2014, while in combination with the implementation of the Task Force Group, foreign counselors were hired to cooperate with the government. To develop a complete solution that would take care of all the factors of the budgets, the Agency and its foreign Advisers worked on the project. It led to legal and economic factors and, in particular, national conditions for emissions. On the basis of that work, the construction team submitted proposals to the management committee for execution last December. In accordance with government policies, the Commission's proposals were to set up measures to reduce the risks that financial companies on treatment could create and shape the economic and stability that would reduce the willingness of national partners to seek with financial resources. The first part of that work, beginning in 2013, became a major part of trying to reach the truth about the extent and extent of the problem. It is not a simple task, but it required that many come. It had to be used to calculate from the Federal Bank on Work, which has lasted for some time, but also to update it and examine from different angles each of the real pressures on our currency could become if the pair of goods were to be distributed to the demands. But that was not enough because we also had to have a clear view of how large the African cherries were and how much pressure they would put on the currency and the added pressure of national pressure. All of this describes the problem we faced. Once we had about got around the size of the problem, and that doesn't happen in itself until 2014, it was possible to get started with a solution to cope with that problem. The second part of the work, the work that the construction team has particularly focused on, has been about exporting. All the work and suggestions that have been made to solve the problem are based on the basic laws of the government, that the solution must be respected, that it must respect international commitments, and that it must be equal. We set the fundamental goal of choosing measures that would take less time than others, setting priorities for simpler solutions, trying to minimize the legal risks that would arise and to approach the problem overall, not trying to solve some of the problem without having a complete perspective. At the same time, our core objective was that the solution would contribute to reflecting the real economy and, above all, the failure process would have the interests of home and employment in Iceland, which is the prerequisite that the real economy does not take out any further adjustments than it has already been. This has often been brought up here at the council during discussions about these matters before. One way to put it this is to say that we would never use loans that have been used to expand the currency reserve in order to ensure the insistents of escape. It never stood to protect a currency reserve, which in large measure has been borrowed to solve the problem. In order to reach the target, there are two ways to get ready, but the destination has always been clear. He is described by the goals I have mentioned in the past that there will be no pressure on the gang of the crowns at the disposal of the covens. There are more roads than one. We're drawing them up here in these bills. As we have seen, we have had meetings with key authors of the broils. It has been listened to the way a person is willing to get to that destination, and in that work the so - called stability conditions have been fine. But we have never had a contract or a conversation about where the destination was. There's never been a discussion, we've never been in agreement for national interests. First, I'm going to do a bill on a stable tax law. It suggests that a single-change tax, a stable tax, will be established in order to provide the basis for the emissions of the budgets established here following the collapse of the financial system in 2008. This approach to the case proposed in the bill is carried out by economic stability and the guidance of the public. Two. 1st par. The bill is a law that deals with the provision of the funds that will fall from taxation. It says that the tax returns to a state fund and that their arrangements are compatible with economic and financial stability goals. At the same time, it is suggested that the management and administration of these funds in the bill and that financial and economic ministers should consult with Iceland's Secret Bank on this impact on both economic and financial stability. The main characteristics of the stable tax and its implementation are expected to be as follows: tax responsibilities will be the financial companies who once worked as business banks or savings, but they are now under violations of the financial law or have ended because the federal court has decreed that they should go bankrupt. The tax stock is the total taxable property of the taxpayers as it is on 31 December 2015. Owners should generally be assessed at a value or at a cost as expressed in the accounts of taxpayers compared to 31 December 2015. The tax rate of stable taxes is 39%, but from the calculated tax, it is permitted to advance the defined investments of the taxpayers in debt or foreign currency loans. The stable tax will be a single tax laid on April 15, 2016. His days will be four: May 1st, June 1, July 1, and August 1, 2016. The sole days of the tax will be the last active days of each of these months, which means that a stable tax should be fully paid on 31 August 2016. The bill suggests two deviations from what is generally valid regarding the curative of taxation issues. Not only do they have the goal of speeding up problems. First, it is suggested that the government tax manager's decision on charges due to tax stress be completed at the administrative level. This means that differences in tax stress will not be carried out by the head tax committee. Second, it is suggested that tax conflicts be rushed before courts. Then it is suggested that tax taxes be given on the law of stable taxes to enjoy the rights as bulimics. The bill on fixed taxes also suggests four changes in currency law, No. 87/1192, bilingual. On the one hand it is suggested that the sources of Iceland's Federal Bank be given to provide stability due to the taxation from the capital authorities in Article 13. By the law and by the way, the Shared Bank's authority is proposed to deal with violations of budgetary policies. Now let me describe these two suggestions. As regards the sources of the Federal Bank to provide an exception, it is suggested that two new paragraphs be added to Article 13. No law. There are two sources to Iceland's Secret Bank in order to provide stability due to taxpayers from the limitations of the law on currency. First, it is suggested that Iceland's Pentateuch be allowed to give the taxpayer the tax if he was fully paid on due tax. In addition, it is stated that the Council Bank is permitted only to provide confirmation of the leaveovers for the treatment of the charges or a judicial hearing for the tax without having any differences or that the final court's conclusions are in place to confirm its implementation. What does that mean? This means that there is no such thing as "headings." This also means, in effect, that head - to - head cases and jobs are still dependent on the money capitals they are today. Second, it is suggested that the regulations of Article 13. e in the currency law because of the investments that provide the right to cut off from stable taxes. As mentioned earlier, the Federal Bank is suggested to provide additional authority to deal with the rules of capital master. First, it is suggested that the National Bank's sources of stress fines on the law due to violations of Article 13. B and 13th. c The law will be cleared from what is now. The purpose of the change is primarily to prevent people from seeing the benefit of violating the national currency law and ensuring that the benefits of a crime are no more than the maximum legal legal legal rights. On the one hand, it is suggested that the Council Bank be authorized to stop practices that are considered to violate the laws of the law and require reforms, according to the events of day - to - day observances. The proposal has role models in other fields of legislation, and in this regard it is almost possible to mention financial reforms under the European Commission legislation on official financial management. In view of the acute risks of business ventures, the payment of the country's population, especially in the context of emissions, it is only natural for the bank to react by stopping specific behavior and/or demanding improvements. However, the use of these measures would always have to be moderate. The above recommendations in relation to the Sofatur Bank of Iceland were specifically made in preparation for the changes made in the legal requirements of currency last Sunday. Although the proposals are urgent, it was my decision as a minister that it was not too hard to recommend at the council that they be handled at the same rate as the previously mentioned changes. Then I'll go to the bill to legalize the law of a financial enterprise. This bill suggests a change to the section of the law that deals with the wear and tear - off financial companies in order to simplify the contracts. The number of demands that have described the demands of financial delinquency is considered unprecedented. There is a big difference in the scope of what has been described, where the demand for weares run for a few thousand or billions of dollars and that more of the property in foreign coins is stored and saved in many cases in foreign fields. The bill provides an unusual response to that unusual position without violating the principle of equal claimors. The proposals in the bill are most important: The decision must be made at a demand meeting for irresponsibility from the provision of financial assets linked to trade with Iceland's Secret Bank and Fundamental Emissions Plans. Such a decision does not bind the demands that violate such measures. This strengthens the response under the authority of broken governments to set up goods in business with the Federal Bank, depending on incidents free of charge, in order to end treatment, if the arrangement is thought to serve the interests of demands. As a result, the Management Board will be authorized to increase the interests of a fallen financial enterprise through investments in debt documents to allow space for negotiations and financial contributions established on the basis of law No. 125/2008 and the other fallen financial companies. Such a warrant is also used to support the actions expected in the bill for the legislation on stable taxes and in so - called stability conditions. In the bill that a problem contract should be terminated, a timed plan for total property is set aside. It will also be permitted to offer pay that is subject to releases and collections of possessions, if clear. The bill will have to be submitted in the bill to a fixed agreement that up to a quarter of the total pay provided by the bill will be set aside to fully pay the full amount of so-called minimum wage. In many cases, this can guarantee full payment to smaller demands. That certain conditions are met will be permitted to fully reduce the older registered share in the fallen financial companies without announcements to the older shareholders. It will be permitted to look at the status of the post on a delay day without taking into account their exuberance to that point. The relative share of demands due to the vote of a fixed contract is reduced so that instead of 70 percent of the demanders who now have to agree to a bill is sufficient that 60 percent of those paying votes agreeing to a rape agreement. However, the bill also needs a contract to be approved by 60 percent of the requirements for a sum of money. The proposals for formalisation are set up by the votes for bills to a financial agreement that votes can be sent electronically. In addition to the criteria that will be met by the bill that a financial enterprise contract will be confirmed by the Court's assessment of the effects of the bill and that the bill does not indicate that financial stability or stability in gangs and money matters is compromised by the bill. This latter condition is all for the government's efforts to complete the case in accordance with the defined stability conditions in which each year's stretch would end contracts that would eliminate the negative effects of their efforts and the payment required by the demands would otherwise be remembered. This guarantees that no one is able to avoid the stable tax by asking for an annual contract without showing that the person at the National Bank has taken sufficient measures to eliminate the risk in relation to payment to the demands. This guarantees that there is a different route, and the tax and stability conditions cannot be avoided. We make sure that if you need a contract route to achieve the target of a broken - up process, the resulting effects will be equal to the amount paid and the tax will be stable. According to the bill, separation and separation must also be permitted to compromise the first payment, insurance to be paid for, or consent to the concerned demands before a contract is established, even though prior to first paying prior to the contract requirements. Also, breaking out of control will make it easier to establish a commitment to certain requirements when there is no requirement for payment because there are conflictes about demands or issues that are relevant to the demands. Finally, the bill suggests that a temporary change of regulations in the National Bank of Iceland, allowing the bank to receive financial rights through business dealings or in other ways where it can be considered necessary to relieve capital capital capital problems or to react to negative effects on the stability of gangs and money. This latter source is important because of the stability issues that I discussed at the outset of my talk. In the motions of the local farms, which have been published and represented by groups of demands, it is assumed that certain measures will be taken to reduce negative effects from the payment of property in Icelandic kronos, including some of which are expected to be taken. by publishing bonds to the Icelandic government. It is important that the measures resulting from the stabilisation conditions are aimed at solving the problem that the tax solves otherwise, as I have previously explained. These assets that would have a negative impact on the payment of the population if unreflected are the problem we face and the task is to maintain stability in economic and money policy, so that the public and industry do not have to shoulder any further burden directly or indirectly because of the fall of the bank in the fall of 2008. A respectable president. I've been tracking the main points of the bills I'm measuring here together. They play together on the importance of paying for emergency agreements, and with the changes in financial enterprises that are found there to show governments the will to pay for certain conditions that are fulfilled, stability conditions that the Navy has published this week in particular. At the same time, we introduce the tax that falls on the financial companies that do not complete a contract by the end of this year. These two points answer the key questions that have been raised because of the dangers posed by the development of the broilers. This change in law assures us, first of all, that it can be accomplished without negative consequences for the stability of gangs. Second, it is guaranteed that it will occur sooner if it had not been recorded, but these bills alone do not answer all other factors that focus on the overall picture of the capitalists, and therefore, there have been reports earlier this week that other measures fill into the picture so that we can see a complete government plan. They face the fact that later this year's outlets are being set out for the afforest, the snow - handed, 300 billion affected by the Offland Sea River. Third, we've reported that we're going to follow the fact that these two cases are in the water, and we've taken the next steps to the real world in Iceland. It could be said that it was necessary all the time to prior to a series of upcoming stretchers and decontinents, it was essential that the plans for them be submitted prior to turning to the physical system. A basic point from the beginning has been our guide in this work, that the plan of these materials is everything and a tool to all aspects of the problem. Our goal is that Iceland will once again become a member of international financial markets and that this will be cleared of the oceans of the nation's clean country. We need to cut off the disease that has weakened us over the past few years, but no less than is necessary to ensure the health of the economy and continue to be built up and more prosperous for the entire population. I'd like to use this opportunity to celebrate a positive reaction to a new plan on these matters, both here and outside the council hall. We have had some evidence that there may be a way the demands of fallen financial companies will prefer more than the tax process. But let us bear in mind that it is not a requirement to speak in the power of a vote, but it involves a group of demands in each group of groups with which governments usually handled these matters in general because they were expected to make a powerful contribution. That is why there is an important clue that we already have that may have gone, but there is a long way ahead before the final outcome is reached in that case. Therefore, it is so important that we finish the bill's stabilisation tax treatment and that we now support measures that pay for the emergency contract. In the months that followed, it must then be demonstrated whether or not a person will follow the following words that have been observed in the past few days that they will choose the stability conditions and conditions of a labour agreement, and whether they will permanently be able to submit to all the conditions set there. That's basic. Now we just have to sort out some formalities in this regard. By doing so, we will make sure that we put the economy, the public, and our companies under cover for the development of broken ups and its impact on welfare and stability in our country. Other points are not particularly discussed under this prime event, but they have now been presented and show that we are here for a complete solution. I'm going to say here at the end that the approach that the present government has brought upon this project took time but it was absolutely inevitable that it would be good at doing and that it would work from scratch. True, there was a plan for execution, but in recent years we had done little more than tighten our heads. There was a plan, but it was not fully developed and much basic information was needed to take some action. First, I mention what I came at the beginning, that it would define the scope of the problem. It took quite some time, and there is no simple matter. In fact, it is possible, I think, and in recent years you have learned that to a degree you can have different opinions on exactly what you are using and who are pushing when it comes to assessing the effect on payment balance. But we chose to take the spare route and take a lower risk and simply assume that it could not be accepted that the fragments would put pressure on them. Once men had agreed on that stand, it would have been hard to tell when to say when to stop. Why don't we go 50 billion? Or 200? Maybe it was 390? We said: "No, we don't want any pressure. Thus, in these primary sites, complete cleaning of the broilers is said to involve an effect on gangs. This includes the effects of the stable tax, and this includes the effects of the stability conditions. This methodology, working this way from scratch, opened the way for us to weigh different options to cope with the problem when it was clear. Some have been pondered over the past year, but gradually we have legal experts to help us and other economic advisers inside and outside the administrative district developed the ways and conditions that are present in this prime network. [[The president calls.]] I'm going to finish my case by thanking all the good people in the administration and the advice we've been able to help with the tremendously important contribution in this case, which includes one of the major economic operations that Iceland and I have undertaken.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u50	A respectable president. I would like to thank all the specialists who have worked hard to make these bills. I'm celebrating them again. There are two main factors that make it possible for me, and for us in the Bright Future, to welcome these primes, the attitude that is expressed on those money that will now flow into some sort of account or deposit account in the Federal Bank. It's not ordinary money, it's not a treasure that can be spent on anything, as I feel that sometimes some have spoken. It is so money that the bank manager, for example, has used the term pollution to describe it. On the other hand, we have advertised whether there is no doubt some discussion, some conversation, with the demands. I've been doing it repeatedly here in question class and was a little surprised that the answers have always been that I didn't stand to negotiate with or talk to a demanding person in any way. I am pleased to learn that discussions with demands are part of the plan and have been made. [[The president calls.]] How meaningful have they been, when did they begin, and could have started earlier? Did you ever lose all kinds of ideas about going bankrupt and all this kind of talk?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u51	Mr. President. You're right next door. A senator, it is one of the major factors in these matters to take good care of the funds that may be returned to the State, whether by the route of taxes or by the conditions of stability. That is why we put it directly on the bill to establish a rule on how the funds should be set aside. Regarding conversation with the demanding people - I have had many conversations about this in the conference hall. We've never really wanted to negotiate with the demands, we've never felt that we were right. First, we wanted to analyze the problem as I considered in my case, to determine what needs to be done. Our conclusion was that it would be unacceptable for the economy to adjust, while property would be paid out to demands. When we received this conclusion, we had a conversation with a demandser, which involved informing them of our plan to tax us from this problem, but at the same time, we revealed that we were paying for our problems and would be ready to develop stability conditions. [[The president calls.]] The conversation helped to some extent develop the conditions, but we never covered what they were going to give, only the ways they would be able to achieve that goal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u52	A respectable president. I thought the conversation, let's just call it that, we always have to be done because other options had been very difficult to justify in many ways a very radical tax such as a stable tax, it would have always had to justify it as an absolute solution. Then it would have been necessary to show that a conversation had taken place before, so I rejoice greatly in this twofold approach. I hope there are successful contracts that deal with our stability conditions. That's the solution we've been calling for. But I just want a quick answer to a very big question. Now I speak of life after my head, this whole matter appeared to me in that a dollar is the bad currency that money cannot be brought and used between countries. That is why demands of employees have to yield to their possessions in Icelandic dollars. There is a major flaw in the currency, I think, and I wondered: From this lesson and from this obvious fact, it is the highest. The secretary of finance as a future taxpayer? [[The president calls.]] Will she ever be without restraint?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u53	Mr. President. Yeah, I think of the crown as a future currency and, yes, I can also see it without control, especially those problems we're discussing here, and I've had the chance to get to know each other in recent years. Do we have to use some kind of national emancipation strategy to maintain a specific defense against attack on the currency? Yes, we will probably have to do the same. But it's not a headed, it's not a currency head, as we knew it in the old days, nor a capital master, as we know them now. It is simply a national economy that many countries use to protect themselves from attacks and abnormal fluctuations that can have a perfectly liberal capital exchange, sometimes with tragic consequences, even for such big countries as Britain and the British pound. Then they will have to be careful that the standard of living for the public cannot be taken out of it without any caution. I don't agree that this case shows us that we can't have the currency. But it was completely unrealistic for international investors to lend the amount of money that was made to the Icelandic financial system, and it was shown, and they could not, when cold weather struck in the financial world, face the challenges. [[The president calls.]] There were many who made a big mistake, including those who lent 13 of you. Billions to the Icelandic banking system.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u54	Mr. President. I agree with them. The members of the council here have rejoiced that this program has been established and that we see a way to free the oceans. These bills will likely lay the basis for it to be possible. However, I would like to ask a little more about what is sometimes called a discussion and sometimes not. I cut by the highest. One minister said that the government had met the demands and listened to views. It was also seen by the highest. Minister on the counter to what. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson and his talk that the stability conditions would have been shaped to some extent after the government listened to demands. True, we have been told here that there is no discussion with demands, so people may be shy about calling this conversation, but I must ask the highest ones. Minister: I do not criticize the government's meeting of demands, listening to their viewpoints, and in some way the stability conditions after listening to demands, but it does not sound, the Supreme One. Minister, just like what we call in our daily conversation? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u55	Mr. President. When a contract is made, one member may insist that it be exhausted. In fact, he may have the help of the government to demand further on the agreement. No such agreement is available in this case, there has been no requirement for anything, as the conversation has only occurred with government counselors who informed themselves of what they would offer in the management board of the budgets in terms of tax decommission, conditions for stability, and the changes in financial companies laws to pay for the price of contracts. When the call was made whether it was not right to introduce these plans to key demands, we agreed. It was a counseling group that we had that conversation. I think it's been shown very useful. For example, it was possible to listen to what an officer would prefer to do in terms of the length and investments of commitments in the country to the ultimate stability of the situation. [[The president calls.]] Other than that, they were helping themselves to reach the destination we told them that all of this would come to an end.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u56	Mr. President. At the top. Secretary of finance knows that it matters what you use, and I understand exactly what you're doing. The government wants to avoid that word after what has been said, but it sounds to me that the conversation has worked, and I'm happy to say it. V.E.G. In his talk, a minister mentioned that it took a considerable time to do further diagnostic work, and this likely explained the time when a parapolitic committee suggested in April 2013 that foreign experts would be available to assist governments in finding a complete solution for delinquency. Then, in July 2014, when more than a year later, it was decided to negotiate with advisers on work because of a financial crisis. It has been claimed, without me knowing anything about it, that one reason for the long time this took place is that the government groups did not agree on how things should approach. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister straight out whether this was the case or whether this period, this year, was the case, has done all the diagnostic work in between.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u57	Mr. President. There has been an excellent agreement between the parties on how to handle this matter. It is often claimed that some men wanted to move on the bankrupt route. All I'm saying about the bankruptcy process is that it's the way it's written in the law, that you don't have to deal with a broken financial company. It was extremely important for us to grasp fully what it meant. What would happen if the case ended in bankruptcy? That could well be the result, without any political control, as we have seen before the courts; for example, if any demandser had demanded that this approach be carried out and that the judge would agree on it, that was the case. We had to understand that way. It was necessary to take it out, and we did it for a special assessment. Likewise with regard to the first year, it was primarily a diagnostic work. I'm just saying right now, it wasn't clear when I showed up at the Ministry of finance who was under pressure by the deacons, the marauders, and the local pressure was exactly leveled in the years to come. [[The president calls.]] That work was on hand, an effort had been made to evaluate it, but it did not really take place until the 2013/2014 season.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u58	Mr. President. I'm going to be honest and say that I was very pleased with this talk. The minister of finance, as well as the wide openness he has shown in this conversation with us. I thank him and the members of the Ministry for their good work since 2011 in this case as well as the Secret Bank for Deep Enlightenment and Endurance. V.E.G. One minister said that there was a conversation with a hand - chosen group of demanding workers and explained to him at which destination the Icelanders wanted to go. A word of speech said it was the highest. Minister, with permission of presidents: It has been listened to how men are prepared to arrive at this destination... I wondered if people listened too close. I find it somewhat strange how quickly groups of the demands of the various banks jump at the offer expressed in the so - called stability conditions. I wondered, " How could the Icelanders have gone too far when testing the demands? '
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u59	Mr. President. No doubt, each one will see with his own eyes the exact stability of the situation and whether it meets the goal. Here's a prime report, and here's a plan that's mainly based on the fact that we're eradicating a financial problem resulting from the fragments, which is, in fact, absolutely fundamental. Then we have another plan that will clear out the payment problem for the Afghanian. Those who ask themselves this question need to consider whether the stability conditions will reach their goal or not to eliminate the payment problem caused by the worn - out plates. That is our conclusion. It is our evaluation that it is. It's the Secret Bank and the Ministry's assessment. Then there is a different view, that this issue is not about spending the money - equal problem. Rather, it is about recovering funds from fallen financial companies for some other purpose, but it is not what these bills are based on. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u60	Mr. President. That's one of the things we senators will likely consider here at work. I trust the highest estimate. I still have the right to consider what he says and to do according to Greek eyes. You're absolutely right. The minister said that when he entered the Ministry of Economic Affairs, he did not accept the full schedule, but he accepted a plan as he honestly said. She was then won. However, it was officially set up on the part of the former government. In April 2013, Guðmundsson of the bank manager did so. The basis for this was that 75% would be shaved from the troubus. V.E.G. A minister publicly says that if they agree to the stability conditions, they will now be treated with 500 billion tax. I think I'm right about the sum of $900 billion. However, this means that it is being taken 55% of the farm's farm property now. The scan was previously 75%. [[The president calls.]] Perhaps there is an explanation for why the crews joyfully leap to these conditions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u61	Mr. President. I'm gonna point my head. A senator should make a distinction between the demand of the crowns and the remuneration required by the domestic authorities. The sum of the total total total amount is met by both categories in this schedule and in the stability conditions. I notice that many people are wondering if there is a further application to any previous program or if there is a new plan here. Then I'm going to tell my view of it. To the extent that there was a plan to deal with this problem, it was far more about going into some sort of business with which the Icelandic state might gain some bank and other requirements and other such things. It became a relatively early conclusion that we did not go that way. Rather, we use tax and stability conditions that depend on the fact that the Icelandic government is not being held captive by these big financial companies, and we base our plan on a solution to the payment problem. [[The president calls.]] I don't know that there were any proposed ideas on taxation in the management system since the start of a new government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u62	President. I thank you for an excellent discussion on this subject and on the subject. I wanted to ask the highest. Ministers of why the pension fund is allowed only to invest abroad for 10 billion while only a quarter of the influx is in the pension fund. I wanted to ask you if there is no chance that if your pension fund is allowed only to invest for 10 billion, there will be an even greater risk of injecting the current mortgage. What determines that it was decided to go that way, not to someone else?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u63	Mr. President. It was the assessment that foreign funds had to be opened to as soon as possible. This first step means that it should be possible to maintain the percentage of foreign assets of the pensions they make up today of total property, i.e. that would be about the same percentage of foreign property if these 10 billion were to continue to flow out. Can we take further steps over the years? We aim to expand it, but then we are also dealing with another question: What do we want the share of the totals abroad of the pension fund? That's a very big, important question. It involves the biofuel distribution, but it also touches the payment of our Icelanders and needs a somewhat complex calculation of how it will happen over a certain period of time that the funds will start returning with a profit supply as a currency charge. [[The president calls.]] It is not yet time to answer that question.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u64	Thank you so much for the answers. I wanted to ask this in line, because I haven't seen, or those who are experts in this field, that they mention investment banks or investment funds abroad. I just wanted to ask if there's any chance these people might have some sort of free card or if I've missed some of the important elements of this project. Then I wanted to ask, " How much of 300 billion am I going to be invited up and let out of the country? ' Is there a chance that those high-end nationals could make the dollar sick?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u65	Mr. President. I have to admit that I didn't fully understand the first part of the question, but it's just that I don't think there's anyone with a free card in this or that plan. Regarding invitations held on the latter part of this year, our estimate is that it is designed to prevent unnecessary pressure from occurring. However, if we succeed, we will solve most of the problem. The objective is that, as any of the least of the deportations go into locked accounts and, most of all, participate in the invitation. It will be designed in mind. If the invitation is successful, it may provide indirect results, or in a direct way, through the auction, an enormous amount of financial advantages that can run into tens of billions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u66	A respectable president. In the beginning, I want to express the satisfaction of having these bills come here for Congress and declare on our behalf in the United States that we are going to review the issues and show that we are going to face this important issue of high national interest. How important it is that we seek to stand together in complex and difficult issues and solutions affecting the nation's economic independence, as is the case here. It has not been overlooked in the past two years that there has been any lack of the government's clear policy for the release of currency wastes. We've often talked about what goes on at the Senate Hall about the disposal plan. V.E.G. The prime minister began his government career by saying that he knew exactly how to do this, and a new plan would appear a few months later. V.E.G. The secretary of finance has often said that the matter can be solved within six months if expectations could be adjusted. We've often asked the highest. Secretary of finance how to meet expectations if his attitude was that no one should be talked to. So we have never had answers other than those I now want to make up a subject, which is the answer that we have repeatedly struggled to be spokesmen of foreign demands or in other ways not to have Icelandic interests. I just want to say in view of what has been presented here in a fine speech. Secretary of finance that it might have been more difficult to say that it was merely working on the analysis of the case and that men wanted to make full suggestions. Would it not have been better than to come here again and again with the song saying that we who asked and did our democratic duties were spokesmen of foreign demands and would be asking for a surrender to their interests? A respectable president. The lack of policy on the part of the government and the demands of the government has not been established in official discussion. In this respect it is clear that the policy of stability was the basic project of the government, and it was a necessity if a person wanted to pay for the contracts of forced agreements. However, the government's speech has been centered on everything else over the past two years but on paying for the preparation of short contracts. It has been a matter of trying to go some other way, to punish the vultures or foreign demands that had already made enough money in an Icelandic country. The result is everything, everything else. V.E.G. Secretary of finance earlier said: "We want nothing less than it is necessary. That is quite another, quite another statement, and much more, in line with the normal negotiations we have often spoken of in the United States. That's what's at the top. Of course, the secretary of finance described it as a means of negotiation. First, there is a clear contract policy on what they really want, that is the condition of stability. They then make more detailed demands, but they are also quite right at the highest level. Secretary of finance that no direct agreement was taken, which was very wise of the government, because at that time, the Data Treaty legalized demand of the proprietor, the government. It is very important that we do not now. Of course, this is negotiation. This is what is called in international negotiations, which includes those who handle negotiations; they do not commit to the person they speak for; but they examine the basis on the other side. Peace agreements have been made in this way. At the same time, complex financial agreements have been made in this way, such as part of the agreements on communication between old and new banks. The big news now is that it has been a means of making a deal, not the ultimate criminal problem. The number of prime ministers and the forward party is very consistent with what we have concluded in the United States since 2011 and the foreign property of the swelling camps were placed under the water in March 2012. Sadly, because of the musical statements made by some of the administrative parts, it is necessary to review that story so that people do not go in desperate search for justification for their own reversal to create some new story about what happened and what has been said by the Conspiracy on these matters. For example, it is interesting to learn that the successful government adviser, Sigurður Hannesson, has not known about it and revealed it in an interview today, he does not seem to have known in what way the last government had to prepare agreements with the foreign bank requirements. We passed the law on March 12, 2012. Her declared goal was to place foreign property under the seas. During a discussion on that subject at the council, there was nothing too great for that factor and the highest. Secretary of finance has said that there is a lack of information on the scope of the problem at that point. However, it is not unusual to observe the discussion that the Independence Party members went out of their way to be suspicious of all that was presented by the Federal Bank for advice on the next steps in this matter, expressing distrust on the Federal Bank and his counsellors. I think the lesson in the past few months should teach us that this is not a reasonable way to approach issues of national interest. We should learn from it and trust in experts who come to a good point and deal materially with us. Of course, the rights of independence against the transformation of the foreign property of the swellingers to the oceans are especially evident when this story is reviewed. Now it is clear what we came about because the situation that was created there has now been new. During the 2013 election, we declared a way of making a deal, that's exactly right by the highest level. Secretary of finance. At that time, there had been no time for any other development than an idea of business that would result in this success. Yes, it's right next to the highest. Secretary of finance that it is wiser to take the course that has gone by now, by contracts close to hand, or by a more reasonable way of speaking. This prevents the dangers the government could have entered because of business commitments. But our deal goals were completely clear. Back to review in the greater part of the world. I want to trace what we said publicly on that subject. It can be carefully checked. At the same time as the current highest. The prime minister spoke of scourging and earning money by taking foreign property, saying that it was working on a solution, a treatable solution, which could provide considerable leeway with treaties to foreign demands. I'm just referring to an interview with the highest authority. For example, in February 2013, the secretary of finance for the daughter of Katrín Júlíusdóttir. We based it on the Secret Bank counseling, and we can quote the bank manager's comments in that month that it would be possible to predict that such agreements would be submitted to national property by 75%. Economic espionage at the time included up to 100% of the land's holdings. We made it clear to the election that the results could be achieved, that significant space could be achieved by treaties with demands, we didn't doubt it. In television leaders, I made it clear that this space could be achieved, but we wanted to use it to reduce the debt of the state. I said our plans indicated that we could at least achieve a drop of 20 billion dollars. This year the State's interest rate. What's happened now, Mr. Honorable President? Yes, there has been room for that. It will deliver at least 20, probably 30, possibly 40 billion because the promise has been made that this money will go to the decrease in the debt of the state. I also stated in this same TV program that there is room for us to make good use of basic projects in welfare services until the next year. We will see in what this government wants to make room for that. We also said in the leading of the last election, and we were excited about it by the move team, that we thought it would be reasonable to deal with those in the most extreme debt problem, and we thought it would probably cost some 60,680 billion. What have we done now? There are 80 billion dollars of public funds that have not been able to solve the debt problems of those who are in real debt, and there are still one quarter of the people who have an inexplicable mortgage without absolution. So it is said that the big money lines in this matter lay ahead of us before the last election. Our contract goals were clear, and we developed them and publicly declared them to the nation. Of course, we have not been able to handle the wrong priorities of the government in the way the scope of the debt of households has been set aside, but our commitment to this arrangement lay ahead of us. So now, the process of negotiations that we spoke for the fulfillment of the past failures is quite peculiar in that light. Of course, it must have been asked: Shouldn't this diagnostic work have been done faster and better? I'll take it as the highest priority. A financial secretary says that I had to do a lot of work, and I believe and trust it, but I just say: The Sea Bank manager described the ideas of 75% of the domestic property requirements in February 2013. In October, news in the media is being produced by the development of the so - called bingo program The Secret Bank, which was to ensure exactly this success. Was it pushed aside? They worked with her? You see, the oceans have cost 80 billion per year according to the Business Council plan. Thus, animals are each day. These matters must be carefully reviewed on the Parliamentary Committee, and we will, of course, do so because it is important for national interest, despite the prospect of a contract being made and that the demands will be carried out rather than the pressure of the tax, to ensure that if a failure occurs, these bills will be made as well as possible and, as a result, are provided for major dangers. Some have concluded that it is really meaningless or unfounded to legalize these bills in view of the reports received from the parties of the demands. I don't agree with that. I don't agree, either, when people wonder if this is actually covering up the fact that there is going to be a top contract. Never did the prime minister want to go, and the forward party spoke harshly against them. I think it's necessary to validate this ground to ensure that the negotiation route will give its conclusion. I would also like to mention that it is a pleasure to see in the plans that public pensions are expected to get out in a certain way in the immediate beginning. I have considered it to be a poem on all of the plans so far to the small attention given to the importance of getting the pensions into foreign investments at the beginning. Today, the biggest issue is how we make use of the space that is created. It is not easy to talk to each other. I told the elections, as I traced earlier, that there should be room to reduce state debt and that the space that would develop in the government would up to some dozen billion with a reduced debt burden should be used for building projects in welfare services. They're looking right now. The health system is on its way. It is a very serious situation that has occurred when the director of the Land Hospital says that there has been a gradual drop in health care. We can't do that. There is also concern that there is no policy in this government on the building of nursing homes. The need is urgent. It grows as the nation's average age grows, and nothing is being done new now, and no new work is being done. There's a project that needs urgent solutions. All I'm gonna do is mention these two things and make them do. Two events today show us the dangers we face on the front side of this morning's morning newspaper, where financial ministers proclaim tax reductions, that there should be no room for it - taxes, taxes, taxes, taxes. The same chill makes a person thinkin' about the Federal Bank interest this morning. Could it be that we are now starting a new journey of calamity, which is like a repetition of the same ruling order in an collapse? There, ill - timed tax declines and steady growth increases in the Federal Bank that drew interest in the land in terms of lack of control, and the currency market was hatched to the point of failure with disastrous consequences. On the radio this morning, an economist said that if these actions go well, we may be able to pay off all our debts from the collapse. This, of course, results greatly from our wrestling with this difficult assignment from 2008. And we will stand in the same position as in 2004, i.e. Well before the collapse, this economist said. And he added: The aftermate is ours, and we will work on it. In the years that followed, will we make the same mistake, as we did after 2004, and bring ourselves straight into disaster? I say this because these government groups have embezzled in a far more economical way than any other group in the country and have become irreverent kings in pouring gasoline at a stake when it comes to inflation. This is part of a report by the General Commission on the economic collapse of the all - time total tax reductions under attack? Yes, they produced 2004 and fueled the economic problem of collapse. In other words, special economic research has been made on the results of this 2004 and forward policy, available. An emperic study has been conducted in this case because this policy has been tested and it has brought us into a collapse, and now it is facing the same dangers but also opportunities. So I say, with the measures taken in the past few years since collapse, we have created a strong and good position and we can get through the results. It was a huge happiness for the Icelandic people to put the 2008 emergency law, to put it on the currency capitals, even though many have now had doubts that it was the right thing to do, that it would have been better to let everything go more, and let home burn more and the benefits get worse. It was very important to continue the process across classes that followed, returning us to graduation from the 2011 World Bank Fund. It was the right decision to legalise principles on the currency capital in 2011 and thus make the basis for the work. It was the most important step in ensuring our position of contracting the foreign property of the swellingers under the seas in March 2012 and on the basis of which existing governmental groups were not involved, it is now possible to negotiate. Therefore, I would like to thank the government for the way this case has been held in particular during the past few months. I think most people suggest that there was a basic change when they finally decided to trust the National Bank's professional counseling, use the force of the control system to sort out these issues, and calm everyone in the same direction. I would also like to commend the government for their choice of counselling in the past few months and loss. They have offered a fine, open - minded offer and appear to be in good control of the subject, those of us who were in the Convention Committee on Emissions, which is now probably one of the most widely recommended consultation committees that have ever been examples of in the history of the world, are seen by the little that we have come up to this matter. How important it is that the riots have been removed, the fears that any other method of solution could be used but includes our national rights and laws. For example, I was thrilled to argue that the last election would require a solution within the national rights of the country. So gloatious, they talked about how bats could be applied wildly and crazy, not even following the principles. It is commendable that they have been restrained, and it is commendable that we have once again succeeded in creating an extensive solidarity, which is in full harmony with the path that was traced from the beginning of our wrestling with the aftereffects of the crash. But, Mr President, it's important not to destroy that position. If it is true that our situation today can match what it was in 2004, experience from 2004 will remind us of how to behave economic and emphasis. It is worth remembering that even if cutting and economic difficulties are difficult, strong bones are also needed to endure good days. Therefore, I would like to complete this speech on the need for the government to avoid the economic error that the same group of governments committed in a fallout, that they would not be led into the course of disastrous tax physicians at the same time as the Navy grows, thereby not promoting inflation and instability in the gangs that could harm the prosperity of the nation and the interests of all homes in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u67	Mr. President. Since only in the past could there have been a lack of clear answers to broken - down families on what would be needed for them to be granted an exception and to be able to complete contracts, this is very related, since a whole plan would have to be available and a realistic assessment of Iceland's payable problems, exact assessment. As soon as it came to pass, it was obvious what had to happen. When I put it so in discussions about these matters that expectations had to be adjusted, I meant, of course, that the picketing demands had to adapt to that reality. There is no secret, and it has been stated officially that once it has been discussed, to form late last year, that there were 35% of exfiling taxes being the response of the broilers that it was completely unrealistic and that it was never an option. It is no secret that this was in line with the view that the first reactions of the demanding groups were when they were introduced to our plans. It may be said that there were hundreds of billions of people missing a realistic view of something. On the other hand, I'd like to say that when talking about improving the state's status in the coming years, including the result that we are able to get rid of the capital heads, I think it's probably normal to look at further reductions in taxes and bans on the citizens and businesses of the country, to form in an insurance bill and elsewhere, but I take the same time that, of course, it will be a good time. But this must be considered and considered. Some people believe that they should look to the increased fees, as it sounds to me. A senator would rather concentrate on, but for the past it was perfectly clear, it was one of the campaigns of the 2003 Union to lower taxes. [[The president calls.]] We spoke with the United States after the election. They accused the new government of betraying the promises of taxes, but they came a long time later and said: Paying taxes was a mistake. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u68	A respectable president. I thoroughly explained in my case that I have a clear understanding that it took time to define the criteria that would be followed. Of course, we have heard howls from them, and we cannot help but expect them. It's only natural for humans to defend their interests. But what I made comments on earlier was that the directors of the government classes, and especially the highest. Prime Minister, it should have been observed that those who were asking about the outworking of this project, as national and geographical, spokesmen of foreign demands, as was well said here in the councils. That's what I feel really bad about looking back, and in view of the conclusion here, there's no reason for me to look back. V.E.G. The minister of finance described it quite well what happened. Of course, there were contracts. Of course, these treaties are when heaven and sea, many hundreds of billions between attitudes and human beings, then they are attracted to one another because the government has created a reasonable, trustworthy agreement and is based on material evidence. That's what people do in contracts. I'm just complimenting people on these contracts. There is nothing to be done about going into the race. It's just a definition of contracts called "poroximity-talcise" and I encourage the government and the government sector to look up a definition of that point on Wikipedia. Then refer to the highest recommendation. I'm glad to hear that he has his eyes on the timing of the tax doctors. I agree that, of course, there is every reason to cut down insurance. It's very important to cut down insurance. That's a terrible tax for the knowledge company and my company. But I still reiterate what I said earlier, that the scary cocktail that the Independence Party made to ensure continued government seat 2003, leading the 2003 election campaign out, it was the recipe for the collapse.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u69	Mr. President. Yeah, I just like talking about tax politics, along with the matters that are under and no less tax emphasis before. However, for the 2003 elections, the groups competed, especially the Union and the Independence Party, to promote tax ideas that would best please voters. I remember when I was just at the council getting up here on the platform, the local vice president of the United States rose and accused the Independence Party of betraying voters because taxes did not fall too much and not quickly enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u70	The Chairman did not.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u71	Of course, the union recognizes that because it was their main struggle, it was a great and greater tax reduction than the Independence Party for the 2003 elections. But back to today. It is to continue to look for ways to relieve the people of the country as far as financial access is concerned while strengthening the infrastructure and building up key institutions. [[The president calls.]] That is my opinion strongly. But it must be timed in line with the economic situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u72	A respectable president. I repeat, it's good to hear that. The secretary of finance has learned it since the trial in the past ten years that paying taxes is not always the right thing to do. I had a lot of debate with independents over that in 2003, when we criticized the taxes, and it was always said, "Well, it's never the right time to lower taxes. " You see, it is sometimes not the right time to lower taxes and to hear that at the height. Secretary of finance has already learned that. However, I find it a little steep to be present with proposals for tax declines, in contrast with important welfare groups, with the health system at extreme proportions, as the Director of the Land Hospital has already described, and when it comes to the construction of a nursing home during the time of the government's work, I have no finger lifted to any point. I don't really think it's a good idea to start off with low taxes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u73	A respectable president. I'm not much of a gift to come up with, I think people in general should have their speeches in peace, but when the speeches get very strange, as at this moment. paritaprevir Páll the Árnason of Athenians, a man must come up, and put a word in his mouth. Hv. In his speech, a senator highly assumed that it was a means of making a so - called contract, the way of the United States in its own time. There's no negotiations here. We have two options here, and we have a choice. It does not involve any contracts, and it knows why. paritaprevir Páll Árnason's vigilance is very effective. It's simply wrong to thank the United States. At a meeting in Harpa, April 23, 2013, a report was made. paritaprevir The Árni Páll's Árnason to the ownership of the demands was given in a constitution, and men could not go in there indefinitely and confiscate the property of the demands, as he put it. Now I'm asking why. A senator: What has changed? What happened to this constitution officer's right to keep his possessions in peace? What's changed for him? During the two years since this meeting in Harpa, a senator made this comment? That's why. paritaprevir As all know who followed that struggle, the years of Árnason's service must be very hard on the entire campaign to defend the interests of demands.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u74	Bullshit.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u76	Now, it is good to hear that the candidates have not learned anything from the past few years' experience and continue to carry on treason and other shameful charges, which I believe, in fact, are to be expected by the U.S. Speaker to court. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] This is a serious crime, but to say that you're a thief, there's a bigger line on this. Hv. A senator would have been far - off if he had said that a speaker was a thief. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] I would like to emphasize that the constitutiond obligatory claim is at hand. That's why they said the highest. Secretary of finance in the past: This is no less than necessary, because the Constitution states that the right of property must be limited only if necessary. That's what's been done, the need has been defined. That is what we had laid the foundation for the need. That's why we told the election that 75% of domestic property should be taken, and it's necessary because it's the real value of their assets, it's not being deprived of the Constitutional rights to protect them. [[Up front.]] That's exactly what the top said. Secretary of finance earlier. Then I'll ask what. A senator must think carefully before he has again in front of the General's debates against other members of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u77	[[Up front.]] V.E.G. President. There is no scrupleing anyone or anyone about criminal activity.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u78	No, no.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u79	[[Up front.]] No. However, it is quite clear that you had a hearing in front of your last election, and that's what I have left. In the end, I'd like to ask you, now you've said and said in your speech, [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u80	President wants less of it. A senator is obliged to direct his words to the president, not to individual senators in the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u81	In a speech or two. paritaprevir Árni's son Páll of the Árnason said that each day had been expensive in recent years and that this conclusion had to be made earlier. Now I ask: How did the last government fail to provide sound suggestions? For what was the time used during the years she had here to prepare these matters and to be prepared with a firm suggestion? [[The president calls.]] Now I'm not talking about the fact that they had had to come to action but that they were lying down.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u82	A respectable president. On March 12, 2012, the premise of negotiations and the premise of proposals was the adjustment of the law. Should we discuss who supported her? At that time, these possessions were above themselves. Only then did the Navy begin a thorough investigation of financial equilibrium. They were no further than we can see when we left the government, but far beyond that, there was a comprehensive vision that could be achieved by the results now, 75% of the domestic property of claimors. It was publicly declared by the Sentencing Bank, officially by the then president of the United States. Secretary of finance, Katrín Júlíusdóttir. And, of course, it is a burden to make a stand for the interests of demands when there is no evidence. I described a simple legal situation at this meeting. It's still standing, and all the contracts that have been made. [[The president calls.]] This is certainly a detailed agreement with the demands on how men took their stand closer to one another. They have been made of respect for the Constitutional rights of the possessors, and that is not possible in a court of law.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u83	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. Árnason In addition, I would like to use this opportunity to thank the government of Sigmundur, Davíð of Gunnlaugsson Gunal, for a tremendous work as a plan for execution, as well as for all who came to work. Hv. paritaprevir About the Árni Páll Árnason wrote that a suspension plan is the work of the Union or the previous government, if I don't understand it, or that it's at least very similar. So I'd like to ask him about what you read on the news today, including... A review of information published in the March financial secretary's report, which shows that the plan of the previous government has taken only on the Offspring of these 300 billion if I understand this correctly. If this information is correct, then why wasn't it in the plan of the previous government to deal with the factions, these 900 billion? I quote here on the news today. That's what I'm talking about. A senator doesn't agree with me that the overall solution is in dealing with these broken-ups?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u84	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. It is true that in the recent government program that I introduced in the National Society, with the bank manager at the end of March 2011, the main talk was U.S.A., for at that time there was no analysis of the Marine Bank on the dangers of the emissions of funds due to the swellingrs of the fallen bank. This was likely due to the cessation of the separation process and no diagnostic analysis was available. This analysis developed in cooperation with the World Bank and the Sentencing Bank after I had left the Economic and Business Ministry by the end of 2011 and was introduced right into the Parliament into a new legal arrangement for the move from a Economic and Business Commission in March 2012. In other words, foreign property and all the property of the swellingrs were dropped under the head of currency. That was the step that created the possibility of dealing with the problem. Because of questions why. A senator about whether I don't think it's right to handle this in a collective way -- Yes, as I described, and we even said it before elections, we described in detail how to reach this conclusion before elections. Our objective was perfectly clear, we believed that 75% of the domestic property was a realistic estimate. It seems to me there's a bit less involved here, but I think it's just a normal conclusion from the deal process that's gone before. But the principle is that there was no analysis on the Federal Bank on the problem, but I think he must have made it clear just after I left the Ministry, because then it came right into March 2012.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u85	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Well, I guess I understand why. A member of Congress is correct, that it was not in the administration plan of the previous government to handle the domestic property of the broilers, i.e. these 900 billion dollars. Hv. A senator speaks of all the groups speaking of dealing with these matters. But following the correction, for example, and other factors, some of the rulers of the government have been playing a certain video that has become the highest level of activity. The prime minister is repeatedly asked out in this space, why he is the only one who talks about it, and dares to talk about its use and not to wear out. I'd like to ask you what. A senator how would reporters speak to a certain candidate if others had spoken the same language?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u86	A respectable president. Regarding the second question, I don't know why they didn't listen well enough to the United States before the last election. I think they would've done better because I said exactly that. I can play video for what? A senator who shows it quite stable when I discuss that we can at least be talking about 20 billion bucks a year because we have a decrease in the debt of the state, because this space is possible to make use of it and because we are going to use it because we have an idea of how we're going to use it. Besides, I just have to go back through the time line, so we're clear about what's going on. Senator. That was a plan on the last government to deal with the worn - out population. It was not in the first program and published on March 25, 2011 because there was no analysis of the problem and no suggestions from the Federal Bank or the World Bank. But with the change of law, which the candidates did not trust to support, and independents voted against March 12, 2012, this feature was entered into the government plan. From that time onward, it was the primary objective of the government to deal with this problem. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u87	Mr. President. I had been told not only to the highest. Financial and economic ministers and prime minister planned to attend this discussion, but neither of them is now here in the hall. I'll call it to the president. First of all, I think it's important that the wording here is good, i.e. that people use the proper terms for what is underneath. There is talk here about decommissioning a capital school or disintegration of a currency school in connection with this case. That is not what is here, but it is an enormously important step, and the underlying factors are, in effect, that at least a great deal can be blown off the capital seas. However, it is clear that they will not completely disappear, so the concept of delinquency is wrong in a twofold sense. [[Taken out: release.]] The release of capital accelerator, the evacuation of capital code, following these measures is what is discussed here. Secondly, I'd like to say, and that would have been the highest. The financial and economic minister may hear, that I'm basically in agreement with the suggestion, I agree with the assumption that people have proposed to approach the solution of this case, which is that the release and breakup of the old banks, as well as how the deportor will be released from the economy, should not be at the expense of currency, should not weigh the payment of the nation's population and should not be funded to some extent by the debt of our own currency. That's an important exit point, and actually I think he's been that all along. Of course, all ideas about how we're working out these issues have been based on the first day that we did not make any further sacrifices in its behalf. It's inevitable to cross the story here, even though I'm not going to play a theory or to take something from one person rather than another, it's bigger than that, and it's now and the future, of course, that's all that matters. So I'll try to spend as much time as possible of my speaking in it. I'd like to say, sir, a respectable president, though, that I now miss the old contingency. I would have liked to have been here for a discussion on this matter, and we could have held some handsome speeches, at least some of the leading spokes, as the matter is big. First, it was the right decision to appoint a currency head in the fall of 2008. There was nothing else to do, and a large part of the restoration of the Icelandic economy and the population has built on it, and nothing else could be done. Why was nothing else possible? It wasn't just because we had these enormous financial hills owned by foreigners in the economy, who, without the financial limitations, would have tried to search outside the currency market with dire consequences, it was also because we had no currency of ourselves. Have you forgotten what the situation was like at the end of October and early November 2008 when it was plotted how we could use the last remnant of the remaining currency in the country - to what? Yes, in order to buy a ticket for the then secretary of finance to Washington, to ask for a loan and to import medicine and oil. It remained about three weeks'cover in the country to cost the normal transport of goods. The first dose of the currency bar in cooperation with the World Bank Fund came in November 2008. But do they know when the next dose came? He didn't arrive until October 2009, and that was because the work plan at the World Bank was delayed for months and months because of the difficult Icesave language and proved to be expensive, delayed for us, delayed the restoration of at least nine months. It wasn't free. Then came the next dose, when the first revision of the work programme with the World Bank Fund was finally overrun. What was the situation in the meantime? Yes, it was saved in itself because of the collapse of the crown's gang 50%, and the trading equation became handsomely positive because we dropped our main points from importing except just the basic necessities of the export operation. But she did not look so good in the future. At that time, it was not particularly fun to be a minister of Iceland's finance in those months and to have an endless question: herra Sigfússon. Headed for national failure? Is it possible that Iceland can't keep its commitment? Yes, it was headed for it until we had a currency available to the cities, both public and private, in the months and years ahead. The situation up to October 2009 is that Iceland had no currency for currency ahead of us both in 2010 and 2011, a very large budget of 2011, a billion dollars in the United States, which we could certainly have been able to do only by having access to the currency markets or by having currency loans based on cooperation with the World Bank and Community, the North and Poland. In time, however, all of this began to recuperate. We got blown out of the minefields. The risk factor in Iceland during those months was 1,000 to 1,100 pixels. We were the greatest of all developed countries. Only later did the Greeks overtake us and when we were down. That's the way it was. So if we were to cross our heads only then in November 2008, they were put on and made the right and inevitable decision, nothing else to do. The first schedule of delinquency, or first mapping, of how to perform that project was published in September 2009. In October, changes were made so that the influx of foreign currency for new investors was opened. It was in March 2011 that the second plan, a fairly complete plan, came out. And in it was what? Yes, it was quite the same spirit that has been with the people and talked about ever since. It was an auction route that was decided to go down to the dean, snow - handed, or credit card, or switch to long - term paper to tie money in the country, which is still part of the landing here, and it was a taxation method. It was all there. It was not made up the same way today, and the picture was not clear. And because they have discussed why no more was being done in that program, there is reason to tell us how things were going. I started asking a little early, as early as 2009, and when it came into 2010: " Will the payment of the large swelling workers at the time be equal? How do you think the answer was on the front? No, we don't know, but we serious that it won't be far from zero. Some of them may be crooked and have more possessions in domestic dollars than any of the domestic demands, others might be in plus, we might actually get a currency in return, so it is not likely that the result will be far from zero. I don't think I'm breaking anyone's confidence even though I'm informing that this is the way it was at this time and natural. The color cycle and development of the settlements had reached a high dose. There was a lot of uncertainty about collecting property. They would take their stand on the matter. Many of them needed a court order to determine whether or not they felt fit. It was really a black hole. You're absolutely right. In the discussion earlier, the secretary of finance said that it took a long time to break this down, analyze it, and get a clear picture of it. For example, I don't think I've been able to get a fairly clear picture of this until late summer and autumn in 2012 when Sigríður Benediktsdóttir came on behalf of the National Bank with its first serious presentation of the diagnostic work at the time. At that time, it became clear to me as never before, but I was beginning to realize that there was a great danger in traveling there, that there was a great dissatisfaction. For example, it took some time to obtain a clear ratio of domestic and foreign demands. In front of them there was an underestimate in the sense that domestic requirements would be about 10 to 15 percent of the required requirements. Then, on average, they may have turned out to be a mean of 5◯6%. That was important. The higher the demands of the domestic parties would have been, the more they would have been in their share of foreign possessions as well and would have settled the cash. In part, it is so large and so twisted because of what was finally shown to be of little value to the national standards that were involved in the enormous foreign property of the inhabitants. Then the movie continues to explain. That's right. I have observed this regularly and have attended most meetings in which this has been introduced and a new evaluation has been made by the World Bank. It has been getting better almost until the last few hours, understandably, also because this is not a single - cash raise, but the collection of their possessions and fruits has taken place, and this has changed. It is, of course. The late bank has started a lot of work, and there was a lot of help working with the World Bank, which, of course, has a lot of skilled experts taking orders on these materials, but it wasn't just dealing with it; it also had to be identified all the financial problems of the nation's population as much as it does. The debt of energy companies, rural society and everyone and what payments lay ahead had to be made. These reports may have seen that the payment distribution is shown year by year into the future, that some columns are very high, and I don't speak of it while the bank letter has not been extended. It is this total payment that needed to be examined and still needs to be considered when it is, of course, time when it is such a time to isolate the problem and redeem it. It's the eviction point, and I agree with the assumption that there is a subsidence problem. In the past, there was also a very active and useful meeting committee for all political parties. It came over and over again, and it was relevant that in this case it was usually easier for her to create a political solidarity over the action required. The Parapolitan Convention Committee wrote a letter to all presidents shortly before 2012 and suggested that the capitals be made inexorably. That was an enormous arrangement. Until then, they had been under law for two years, and they wondered: " Should we extend it by two years, shall we add something to it? The results of a careful analysis became: No, the authority to sustain them has to be premature. Why? Because it was a message sent to demands and landowners and others: Iceland will use this capital station as long as it takes. Just make it clear. But the most important change in law was March 12, 2012, when the property of the living was placed before the oceans. There is no need to reenact that subject. Finally, I would like to point out those who contribute little to the progress of previous governments in these matters and who now want everyone to take credit and gloomia, some of which are too early, let's not take out any victories ahead of time until everything is done well, until it is done with tremendous success to reduce this problem by reducing the auctions of debourgs. Some now have a share in the passage. Ever since the Savvy Bank and the State went into the Avens trade at the beginning to save the world a huge sum of money in Icelandic kroners - which our banks blessed, vowed, had placed on bail in countries, and we reached a very good deal with the Secret Bank or Luxembourg and the European Bank of Banks to purchase these properties with massive discounts - the problem of reducing these, of course, was that of course, a deportation. And throughout all the auctions and off contracts, this deliberator has more than halved, much more than half, because of its 650 billion dollars. By the time the oceans arrived and everything had collapsed. It is 300 billion today on current prices. It tells us a story about what has been accomplished there. In the case of what is now on the agenda and the share of the present government, and for a long matter, it can be a pleasure. I believe that she works in this area as manifested even. Here in these primes, they get quite good credit because it's a smart plan, a good job, well-worked, well-inhabited, because people in general have accepted it well. Is it not true, then, that all humans can be content with pleasures? Do humans need to be here doing detestable things and treasoning one another? I don't think so. My conclusion is, Mr. President, that all three governments that had to deal with this matter at different times have, in principle, done the right thing. The first government, Geir H. Haarde, did the right thing in, of course, placing the law of rescue and putting it on capital. There was nothing else to do. The next government that wrestled for almost four and a half years in this situation was predominantly entitled to all of Iceland's interests. There is no objection, and we did what we had to do, and we made a big difference in order to end the situation successfully. It's only absolutely clear that it was right by locking the assets behind the capital and other procedures I've taken over here. These two prime signals, on the one hand on stable taxes, and on the other, the change in financial law to pay the streets of financial restructuring or forced contracts of financial companies, are, of course, some technical. They are not large in interest, but their reports with them and especially one of them are important. With regard to the stable tax, it can be handled in a relatively simple way. It's a very simple bill, and it's very simple to add 39% tax to the total stocks. In case of a moment. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson owns 100 million, and I'm the secretary of finance, saying, 'Hear, Frosti, it's gonna be here in 39% of the next year, and there's only 39 million out of 100 that you get in the box. [[Up front.]] It's like this, really. This bill, however, is of utmost importance. We have known that the most difficult part of our work would be to prepare legal and economic things that would then be suggested in the bill text. I think they've done some pretty good work there. However, regarding the basic agreements, there are natural laws that have obviously been shaped on the basis of the interaction with the demands, negotiations that are not to be called negotiations, that are only readily understood, and that are only beneficial for us to see how the process needs to be developed. It's easy to do, well, let's tell responsible demands to make the decision, reduce the likelihood that hardy smaller things will ruin things, and so on. And in the end, we're authorized to do so in Article 4. - that he can only really get a warrant in order to receive money only in any kind as a stable supply from a farm that needs to meet the requirements set out by the Navy. Then the arrangement for this money goes on to pass. Impressed by the fact that the special stable tax would be imposed on them, they were scraping their money into the state's budget. In a paper with the bill and, indeed, in the bill itself, we face the tremendous challenge of accepting this funding in Icelandic dollars to support our extended economy that still exists, unfortunately, after the sacks and the spells at least in understanding the amount of money on the road. There's a responsible tone down there. It is said that first of all, because of the collapse of the bank tax, the income share in the bank tax disappears largely if it disappears, so to speak, it could continue to be placed on the domestic banks if one chooses to do so. Second, canceling the debt to one 145 billion, but the amount would, of course, be much higher. And they say, and it's well, to keep these funds separated from other state funds, put them on a special account, and have the Secret Bank in charge of how to handle it, seek the expected ways to try to pay off the State's debt, but so that it did not cause the expansion in itself. The problem is that there is an enormous amount of money, hundreds of billions of dollars, that has been inactive in the economy. They haven't been in traffic. The fiscal project is to deal with how we deal with it if they change hands, that they don't pass through, that they don't pick up, they don't cause inflation, and they don't cause failure. The evidence points to the conclusion that when it is decided and that most part of the Great Sea Ocean media, it was decided that it would be successful to go through a series of emergency contracts and pay for the stability donations needed to give the Navy a green light. Thus, this situation has actually been taken from the courts to agree with or is conditional that if it is not accompanied by proof from the Federal Bank that the contract is OK, a local judge should reject it so that its denial rights are at the National Bank, and that is well. Consequently, the late bank can expect to use the time to strengthen, if anything, more than the requirements and criteria it sets before it finalizes, or accepts, or withholds, any initials. But if I understand this, they will be rich, and they will run to the city bank. I'd appreciate it if it was the highest. A financial minister did so because it does not say in itself about how the funds are handled. Then they'll be at the Navy Bank, and the bat will probably not accept so lightly some deliriuml arrangements on them. But it's interesting if we compare the two bills, the first and the thick on the stable tax, which, in fact, is back in the chronological order, if we take the cost of the financial Ministry, which is precise and extensive, as well as the paper and, in fact, the original text itself, for which education funds are being used, and then the other bill for the emergency agreement route, is not said. It's actually just said that the Councilman can accept any kind of payment he has received from the singles, bonds, insurances, holdings, or what it is now to help some party reach the fixed agreements, meet the goals. They have not now spent much money on the expense bill. It is less than half a page, and it draws to the strange conclusion that its legalisation will not directly affect the financial resources of the state. I've been digesting this for a while. Yes, of course, not in the sense that a government fund has to cost something or land directly on expenses or so, but I now thought that it might be the meaning of benefiting from these enormous sums of money, even if it fell into the Pentateuch rather than directly into the state funds, except to a minor degree. V.E.G. The minister of finance has said that this could be a sum of four hundred and fifty thousand thousand thousand thousand dollars. If all three of them finished, choose to go on a multi-form and more preconceived protocol, which would, of course, be favourable, as binding money to investments in the country, etc. However, questions arise that may be difficult for us, who are not completely introduced. That's about it, that's even. how realistic the assessment is. Obviously, there is no single figure on who will be the total result of a forced contract system for all farms, as it is possible to address the stable tax, and because these are in different shapes, and these are the exhilarating regulations, and these are some of the things that would come to pass over a period of years after the commitment agreements went through. It's the payment of a direct donation. It's a loan refund. It could be a conditional bond, a foreign agreement, a share in the profits of banks, deposit turned into debt and exorbitant fees. Sala banks would be involved, too, in which the State would get an increasing share in the value of selling according to what it would be higher. Therefore, I don't think that since it wasn't spent any powder on that presentation in Hauppe, it was shown 59 or 70 corneas, which were more and less repetitions of the same, about the heroism involved in the stability tax, but a clear footnote noted that the big demands of the Society had now agreed on the stability conditions of the Federal Bank and it was heading toward that way -- you would have been fine as a half, two-hour presentation on the conditions behind the stability. They are likely to be a major issue in this regard, considering what is about to happen. The secret bank is very few to mention in its announcement on the Web site. Of course I know the highest. The secretary of finance has kindly informed me that there is evidence behind it, much more detailed work papers, but it is, of course, a very general frame that is now officially published on these tremendous important criteria set up and worked on what it takes for each and all of us to live together to meet the conditions of stability. In other ways, I felt that it was a good start, but I was sorry when I read the cover of the Morning Press today. I was very sorry that the minister of finance was not to last for more than two days, and I began to proclaim tax losses, as a matter of warning about the right time. Why are you so sad when you see things like that? Yes, because this is about The crazyest thing to say in these situations, when we see the economy going off into a stable state and then during the thawing of the day that the Second Amend rises by 50 points and proclaims cruel interest increases ahead, the financial secretary of the United States comes and proclaims tax reductions. Does anyone remember this? Has this happened before? It's right next to the highest. The secretary of finance Bjarni Benediktsson that sadly, at least three political groups praised the unremarkable tax reductions for 2003 elections. A promise came true. I remember this very well, for I opposed it alone in the debates of the presidents and elsewhere. I've asked men in God's town not to go into such delirium as to go procrastinate one another to a low tax reactor when it became clear that this was not what the Icelandic economy needed. And after that, everyone accepts how damaging it was into the vast industrial investments that had been decided to squeeze into the economy, the expanded real estate market, and the financial market that was getting out of hand. Even at the highest. The minister of finance would have this opinion, only to mention this into this atmosphere, so strangely away from political differences. Why send this message? Is that a positive thing for the Sentencing Bank? I wonder if the late bank was very happy. They were preparing an announcement to make a money conference decision. What does it say? For one thing, it says by permission of a president: In order to improve collective agreements, the government has introduced measures that will increase government spending and reduce tax pay. So far, the operations have not been financed, hiding the rest of the unsatisfactory hold on government affairs. Government measures have also been introduced as a basis for building a budget for emissions. Some of them will obtain a wealth of government that is important to be set aside so that they will not be more likely to increase the tension in their country by activating the amount of money that has been currently disabled. The money policy board will monitor progress closely and take appropriate action to counter if necessary. The average radio news at lunch said: "It takes a miracle this summer to avoid any further growth in August. And they will be. It is presented here in the declaration of a money policy committee: Furthermore, it seems conclusive that growth needs to be substantially increased in August and more on the coming losses, should ensure the long - term remuneration. This is the situation. These are the interests of the economy, and then it is not the time to start proclaiming tax losses. Of course, there is also reason to mention the danger that the influx, the growth process, could restore. Now it is certainly so, as I came to my case at the beginning, that it is not the meaning to eliminate the capital master completely. It's good to see it, and even to the secretary of finance and the head of the Independence Party, which is probably not too kindly to admit that there will be restrictions in the form of legal measures in the form of possible speed limits on what pensions and other institutions can go out quickly, etc. However, it is wise to keep it in place because economic projects are obviously controlling expectations and standing up to the fact that things get out of control, that inflation and instability will not be a major failure in the months ahead, and it is also important because in these circumstances, it will be harder to clear the capital. Then there will be less confidence in the future in the Icelandic economy and what we must never forget, that behind all this, there are Icelanders themselves, Icelandic public, Icelandic companies, Icelandic pension funds, who also need to play if they are going to succeed so as not to interfere with some capital flight. It has been noted that all of this is now going well, and when these huge billions of people come to the state and/or enter the Federal Bank, only the state's situation can be as good as it was before a fall in debt ratio. Yes, it may approach within a few years, go down to 30, 35 percent, I doubt now about 25 just as it was, but the damage from the collapse has not been improved. [[The president calls.]] It's a long way from that. Although government funds may get to a similar level of debt within some years, unfortunately, there will continue to be an unspoken, indirectly, and directly harm to the collapse we already have. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u88	Mr. President. With regard to these last words, it is clear that we have come in good way to straighten the cow again. I hope these bills help a great deal, and I think it's obvious, to extend the interests of the people and the state further. First with regard to the potential for stability and its arrangement: it is discussed in Article 34. the law about the Selvell Bank that to the extent that the bank's profits do not go to further its own money, the profit will go back to the state fund. I can see that the rest of it would be the case, that the stability project would most likely return to a government fund in accordance with Article 34. In the sense that it would not have to be used to further the bank's own money. However, it may be considered to make a change that would involve the level of material stability in terms of the tax. We may want to consider that at this assembly - that change may be done, that is not a hundred to the risk, though not immediately - that the stability rate would be similar to that of the tax returned to the state's budget and that it would be a provision under the same rules that the tax would be in accordance with the tax bill. With regard to the sum, I agree. A member of the council says that it is very important for the committee to review. There are a number of other factors that are linked to these primary sites that can eventually lead to further State income in connection with decommissionation. I'll give you an example of an invitation on the land bank. I also mention, for example, that when it comes to renovating the possession of Iceland's Secret Bank, there may be an enormous amount of money that will, according to the same quoted article, Article 34. law on the pension bank, eventually into a government fund to the extent that it does not have to be used to further the bank's personal money. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u89	Mr. President. I agree with the highest degree. Secretary of finance that we have no problem reaching out for the funds that are building up at the Secret Bank. There's gonna be some way of making profits and making a lot of money, so it's just two bills in the same book; the state's funds and the Secret Bank are just like sisters next to them, and the Navy is actually the bill of state funds. That's not a big problem. Personally, I could imagine that it would be wise to take a slow walk in it and let the Federal Bank store a substantial amount of that money once the bond is zeroed out, etc. The wealth and nature of the actions that will be done there, the financiers that will be prepared to meet the standards of stability, all matters. I think it's inevitable to go over it very well. It also comes to the sale of banks and those features, perhaps the part of which I have most doubts about. It happens that once more often, I agree with the question. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigurvensson. I'm not laughing as if the banks, one or both, are on my way straight to foreign parties. I won't. I might well have thought that there were other advantages to the banks, perhaps simply that some of the stability process could be paid with a share of property in the banks. Why not? Then they can be registered and put on the market. I'm a little surprised it was totally taken care of. Finally, as far as I'm concerned. The secretary of finance said, "We've handled our cows well, and these cases should help us to make it even better, that's certainly true. " This has been a continuous economic improvement since the fall of 2010. It's a pleasure. GDP is now more real than it was when it was high before a crash; it may not be quite as much an actual per person, but that does not mean that the seven difficult years have been erased. [[The president calls.]] That is what I mean, among other things, when I say that the damage in that sense and many others will never be replaced.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u90	Mr. President. I'm just going to step back to making arrangements for the stability that is under here or taxpaying and to express my opinion that this is quite clear in the bill. This will be taken into account to reduce debt. It will be agreed with the Sentencing Bank, listen to its viewpoints, and this is for the purpose of minimising the impact on the economy. In such a arrangement, the interest rate of the state's budget will be reduced considerably, and this is in the context of the future, which I say: The improvement of the Kingdom Fund in the future should, of course, be of course for the benefit of the people of the land. In this context, we should not stop the tax reductions we have already introduced and launched but must come up with a view in the near future to look for ways to improve the cost and taxation of the people in our country. I'm sure I do. I'll follow through by saying this must be timed well. The late bank points out that maintenance is needed. I refer them to a national budget program, which shows that there is a continuing need to maintain a high priority, to contribute to the growth of financial resources. I have rather sensed it than the fact that many of the factors that we are running a well-controlled national financial policy with the loss of the proportion of land production in the years to come are the financial agenda being left behind. Under those circumstances, I would say that there was an enormous supply to prove it, and therefore I reject the view that special ex-communicative action on the state-of-the-art budget is needed. It's against my point of view of the situation. [[The president calls.]] We have a government budget that's conservative. We will follow it today, and we will follow it on those terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u91	Mr. President. I disagree, unless, in this narrow sense, that the government of the Independence Party and the forward squad is going to cut down the consumption and reduce the welfare system in the coming years by 1% of GDP. If you want to show off what's holding you, there's only one side of that matter. More interpolation and a more efficient welfare system, more investment in infrastructures that would be funded by income, it includes just the same maintenance as even more. I criticize the government budget because it's not really any leftover on the state funds for the next four years. The result is only right over zero, so the maximum. The secretary of finance has to focus this on someone other than the one mentioned here. It is of interest if the National Institutes of the United States, U.S.A., will also be made up of possible additional profits in this sense. It will be flourishing in the Penitentiary Bank if he now receives all this stability money and makes it up with a lot of money and all that. All right. Yes, people talk about all these valuables, but the amount of space that would result in the State's lower interest in the years to come - the space now depends on, to some extent, how much growth is growing in the near future, which is not good news for the state's funds, rather than on others who owe money - it wants to be the most important. A financial minister uses tax losses, and he now mentions the insurance fee. But then I ask, " Why didn't I start cutting down my insurance money? ' Why were the promises not fulfilled when unemployment and expenses were reduced? [[Up front.]] Well, you can't call it a shrink, chief. Of course, the secretary of finance, 0.1% and 0.1% of that in three, four years is nothing, nothing. [[34.]] The nonemployment crisis alone would warrant a 1.5% reduction in the insurance bill or so. But it can also be enjoyed by all the people of the country through a powerful health system, through ambitious educational systems, through investments, on better roads, etc., in better and more nurses. So this is not to say that the only way for people to benefit from better national interests is to reduce taxes and, above all, to big business and wealthy people. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u92	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson made serious accusations against the chairman of the Continental Council in the past. They cannot be ignored. Hv. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson said that the chairman of the United States had been hard on defending the interests of the demanding crew, and that was on the edge of public witness. I insist, Mr. President, sir. A senator retracts the comment and apologizes. If he does not, there will be a meeting at the Presidency Committee where there will be a discussion of the response to these serious members of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u93	Mr. President. It often happens in the heat of the game that men make mistakes, and they may lose out on words that they will not have intended to have fallen. I suppose, in this case, every respectable senator would reach that conclusion. The words are just like that. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson, president of the United States, said that he had been, by permission of a president, was hard for the entire campaign to defend the interests of the demands. Mr. President. What is that? This claim is that a politician is conscious of working against national interests. What this means. This involves an accusation of treason. This is not the way people speak in this hall, at least not those who know little of their manners and want to be good boys. I believe in it. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson wants to be, so he agrees with this wish. þm. Oddný G. Hardy daughter, by which means the matter would be dead. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u94	A respectable president. This part of the talk was recently used. paritaprevir Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir asked the Senate to start talking about one another in a beautiful way. It was requested that men no longer call one another liars and arthres and the same kind of words that were heard here. In many ways you can agree with that. This is so much longer than the examples. A senator mentioned. This is a frontal hearing against a senator's crime. I say, like the rest of us here, to why. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson would be more of a person to come up here and apologize. A respectable president. That's not how we feel in this room, people talking about each other like that. I agree with it. paritaprevir The Árni in Árnason's day stated: "It would have been better even to be called a thief out of trouble. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u95	V.E.G. President. I was hoping I wouldn't have to come up here because of what I was doing. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson would have already made a request. Harðardóttir I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. When we heard that, we naturally didn't believe it. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson would in effect be a shock. paritaprevir The Árni that Páll the son of Árnason, president of the United States, learned about treason, could not respond immediately after his speech. We wanted to listen to the words to make sure that we had heard the right thing. And I'm afraid we heard correctly. I'm gonna reiterate the wish. paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir that if the senator does not accept this request, the meeting will be interrupted immediately so that a prime committee can respond to this request. We've had enough to go to this council hall. We've got to line it up when this is the way of a bridge.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u96	Mr. President. If you're right, to what? paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson indicated that there is so much more to it than that. paritaprevir Of course, Páll's Árnason years were working against national interests. We have often discussed the matter here that it is important that we choose how to discuss matters. On the other hand, I know that, too, as well. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson said, that often a man's spirit moves into his cheeks, perhaps even more difficult words than one would like. I agree with it. People have said this, it is important that we take care of our dealings with others, for of course, there is an enormous accusation that is involved in suggesting that we are wrong. A senator has taken a stand against national interests in some way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u97	A respectable president. On February 24, I asked the highest. The prime minister to whom we discuss very much here, i.e. how to handle the potential funds for decommissionion. His answer was to accuse me of serving the interests of the demands. The presentation of the candidates to us who have wanted to discuss this extensive matter and open is completely intolerable. And now he took the stone out, so here goes. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson over the limit. That's enough. Now's the time. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson is about to come up here and apologize. Will he fulfill that charge? Will he fulfill this accusation against others for treason, that others are working here on some other cause?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u98	A respectable president. There must be some limitations in this room too. We can see that now when these bills are submitted to the huge national interest they are prepared for us to free these currency lords. Then I ask, What does it mean to go against his people, to say that there is someone who will defend the interests of the demanding people?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u99	Mr. President. In my first speech, I said that even in one's own tongue, men could sloppling and shuffling their feet. It often happens, we know it. Many times I've had it myself. This puts a strain on people's emotional strength and their desire to be honest. If it turns out that the person believes that there is no reason to retract his statement that another statesman worked against the nation's interests, it is the fact that he has done what man has called treason and if he does not want to withdraw it, then the conclusion is that he is intent to blacken the name of that member of Congress. Then the council will have no alternative but to be considered on the committee, to conclude, and the senator must, of course, be judged. I think it's a lot worse than that, because I think you should balance it like men always do when heat runs in and pulls it back and puts it in place.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u100	President. I was so unhappy to be here in the audience when this comment came down. I'll agree with that with the last what. A speaker that often speaks in this chair a great deal and a lot bigger than they planned. No one is innocent of it, at least not the one standing here. Everyone has an excuse for their words, except for hell, told me Elías Mar. It could do. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson made it because the remark was lost in a previous reply so that in the second answer, he could have corrected himself. He chose not to do so. He may be irritated for some reason because of the bills presented here, because of the present discussion, but he cannot allow himself to allow it to affect his relations, not just members of Congress, but the dealings of a council and a nation of special rules at the council and tradition of the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u101	A respectable president. I wish that there will be a recess at this meeting, and the prime committee will be in charge of this matter. We can't keep talking about it with this hanging over us. The comments were so insignificance, and they were designed to paint a picture of a whale. paritaprevir In this and in this context, Páll's aged Árnason is in his discussion. I have to say, I haven't heard a tasteless comment. Senator Karl Garðarsson is ashamed of them. Therefore, I request that the president's response to my request be interrupted at this meeting and the presiding committee review the case and decide whether the senator should be in charge of this. Then may this be a lesson to all of us that now that we've been through it, we've had so many dances close to it, and it's time to end. We need to get our shit together and begin to respect one another better here. I'm having a full share in it, but this case has to be covered by the Presidency Committee. This went completely above all limits.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u102	A respectable president. I can't see better than that. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson would not take to heart the comments that have been correctly made here. So I'll ask the president to recess the discussion and call the Presidency Committee together. Hv. A senator is culminating a political leader on criminal action. There's something we can't be able to live in this councilroom. I'm sad about this because this is where we're talking about a case where we've all been trying to get close to the discussion in a way that would have above political lines of conflict. We put our heads together and we're supposed to loosen them up. We should be mature not to paint one another with strong colors. A senator was tempted to do so, but I regret to say in this matter that after his head dances his limbs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u103	Mr. President. Now it's what it says. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson up, maybe he's coming here to ask for the word. I sure hope so. But, no, it's not. This is where the senator leaves, boy. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson, who is not going to accept the reasonable requirement that he withdraw his serious comments and apologize for them. I want to be like the other members of the council mentioned above, in the beginning of the situation, demanding that there be a recession, a prime committee take over the matter, and then act as a sign of urgency. The members of Congress, and in this case the chairman of the United States, are accused of treason, and crime considers this a serious matter, taking firm action.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u104	V.E.G. President. We're here to discuss one of the nation's most important interests, abduction of the nation's budget. In the memory of the section, which has been very unhappy with the board of directors here at the council, we were prepared, of course, to allow these matters to take place and to discuss this great issue. Of course, we were ready to accept responsibility in this matter of government. But it is impossible to feel that the name of the chairman of the United States is now sworn against him without the intervention of the Council's administration. Take care of the highest. The president pauses this meeting so that the matter can be considered? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u105	President. I draw attention to the fact that here we have put this matter on the program, and it seems to me that there is some hydrochloric acid in the coffee at the council of the greater part. First comes the second. paritaprevir This is Jón Gunnarsson. He's gonna let it all go, and now it's time to go. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson, let's go back to work. At the same time, the heads of the government have failed to show us the honor of deciding when to meet today. I feel that this is the way the Senate operates, and I ask that a conference be postponed until the heads of the clans have found out how the frame should be about the program, for it is not for the members of the council to let everything in the fire and the bar, totally unfounded. Can't we behave like normal people around here? You're just ashamed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u106	A respectable president. I would like to state right from the start that I was not complaining about treason, not saying that word in my speech, but quoting an article that was in the newspaper two years ago and saying something about it. paritaprevir The Árni Páll's Árnason of the Year in the Harp of the Constitution is the right requirement. However, it is quite true that at the end of my talk, I said that he had gone through the most demanding phase of his life. It is also true what the government opposers have said here that I actually went too far with them, and I pray. paritaprevir Árni ago, Páll Árnason apologized for that. It was said in the heat of the game, and I agree that the problem is what we say in a speech chair, and in this case I simply went too far. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u107	A respectable president. I'm not going to spend long hours tracking the contents of the bills being discussed. Secretary of finance already did so very thoroughly, but I'm going to use the time I have to discuss just the wide context of the issues presented and are now being discussed. First, I think it's important to make it clear that the issues we are discussing today are completing a seven - year difficult process. They're finishing the events that took place in October 2008, and that's being done in a very rational way, but, in fact, in a very decisive way, too. So we should allow ourselves to use this as a basis for looking forward. In this hall and elsewhere in the community, we have been looking back on some past mistakes, some estimates, and some feel that some of the flaws in our society that have led to these events in 2008. But now we can begin to stress future prospects. It doesn't mean that we're going to stop looking at the past and learning from the experience, not at all, but with these matters we're discussing here, we have every basis for looking optimisticly ahead. That's why I thought it was right in the beginning of my speech to call attention to the fact that this is a happy day and that we should be happy at the council and show it even in our conduct here in the Senate Hall. A respectable president. With the issues discussed here, I was able to take the last major and important step in completing the financial breakdown. This is done now, first of all, because circumstances have been created to take this step, and I will trace it only more closely below, but also because the preparatory work of a number of people, experts, people who have worked on a tremendous amount of work for a long time has provided that we can now take these steps full confidence in their success. First only the leader and the first major steps on this route. It is safe to say that the four steps that have been taken in the solution to the problems associated with the fall of the Icelandic bank have, in fact, been unique, vast, yet unique, not just in this country, in the history of this country but in many places. First of all, the law of emergency. They were needed to react to an individual situation and have been completely successful. Without them, it would not have been the basis for continuing the building work that we are looking forward to. Second, when efforts were made to get Icelanders, the public in this country, to take on enormous debt, the demands of the fallen private company. It was a hard fight, but they survived. This allowed us to continue our building work. Finally, operations to meet the country's homes, including some operations, which had not been performed here before, and actually no other place. Correction of domestic debt made it possible for society's core and infrastructure to be equipped to continue building work, look to the future. Finally, with the initials we're discussing here today, the fourth huge step is taken and the last of the necessary measures to correct the Icelandic economy and provide sound support. That is why we should be allowed to rejoice, so we should view it as a certain lake, the day when we can look beyond the past to see the future more. This step could not be taken today unless the earlier steps I mentioned were taken and other preparatory work had worked. This is what I traced before, the preparation of these measures as such, but also the setting up of the economy in places where emissions could be attacked. It's gone better than even I'd dare hope. For one thing, Iceland's unemployment has probably become the least of Europe. This has also been shown to result in the greater economic growth in Iceland. Iceland was the first country to enter the financial crisis to capture them and thus recover from the collapse. This is also reflected in the economic stability of longer than we have seen for decades by the fact that inflation has continued at a minimum of one month and, in fact, year after year. What does that mean? It has provided the largest financial gain in the last few years and, in fact, the largest financial gain in Europe, so that domestic status has improved, not only because of a decrease in debt but also because real income has increased. It is in these situations that this high preparatory work due to the loss of capital resources is now being completed. These are, as we have seen in the official discussion of the past few days, ideal conditions for these actions. But they were not made of themselves; they were created because of the time when the economy was being restored and the better was well prepared for them. At that time, governments turned to all who knew the best of them, including the best of all. to those who had taken the initiative to warn of the dangers faced during the years following the collapse of the economy, especially to the danger of underestimate the effects of the so - called factions of the fallen bank. You see, it was forgotten to take their interests into account, and that is no small effect. Actually, it's the part of a brother we're dealing with here, and dealing with it enables us to solve the rest of our problems, i.e. By dealing with the problems of the multicultural international unions, the hedge fund that had purchased here on a fallen Icelandic bank, and, in fact, on the Icelandic economy, we are able to solve everything related to it. What will be the result? How will this affect the public in Iceland? This will have a greater impact on the situation of the European public economic, economic, than any of the big cases we've been discussing in recent losses and in recent years, indeed, since the fall of financial collapse in October 2008. As a result, economic stability can be protected here. The currency can be protected. What does that mean? This means that homes can be protected. Their loans can be prevented from raising as if they had not taken care of. You can continue to increase the money of the common people because the value we will create in Iceland in the next few years can remain here in the country. They can benefit from increasing the level of money, improving the status of the people, improving the welfare of the state, and also the right position, enabling them to do their job better, enabling them to rebuild their infrastructure, improving the condition that occurred during the cutting down, even to basic services such as health care and health care. This is because we won't have to, as if it had happened, and so many countries have been through the years, to compete to produce valuables for exporting to survive the debt of private companies. That is what we would have experienced if we had not responded in the way we discussed here. Then an Icelandic community would have had to save themselves in every possible way. The exported goods would have been very expensive, the currency would likely never have recovered, and we would have had to produce something as cheap as possible for our home market but would have exported all the most valuable, selling it to support the resources of fallen financial companies to their demands. This is where we're solving this position. We are building a solid foundation on the economy, thus allowing every household in this country to continue paying off their loans, continue to increase their financial resources, and enable the State to continue fulfilling their duties as they have been in a position in recent years. This is therefore, as I have mentioned several times in this talk, a great joy that all of us should have as opportunities to rejoice and look to the future. However, what is particularly enjoyable about how this is going to work, in line with the suggestions of the experts and those involved, is that it doesn't matter whether the tax we're talking about here or whether broken - ups what they should have completed long ago, how to make emergency contracts that meet the requirements needed to reverse seas. In both cases, the same thing comes down, the balance of the country is protected, the homes are protected, the state is protected. Whether they are paying a total of 850 billion tax, plus the 50 that have already been paid and possibly 100 billion on other measures, a total of 1,000 billion, or anywhere else, they may use ways to reduce the tax burden, but in other cases, they may contribute to the economy, or they may run out of labour agreements and, in each case, pay stability for tax stability, the result will be the same for Iceland. We defend national structure, protect the Icelandic economy and the Icelandic home. If the conditions of stability are met, then the final result is by the introduction of stability, while at the same time we will be prepared for any development that may be different, to form for the sake of the value of banks because the government will receive a share of 50% or 75% in the high value of these communities. If the banks go up and become sold, the State will receive a valuable increase. Also, the government's emergency loans will be made up and a number of other things that are all designed to secure the state's status, regardless of how much things develop in the value of the bank, in terms of the value of the value of the value of the bank, are taking over the demands that are now owned by these bodies in addition to the stabilisation process, regardless of their value in all cases, Iceland's situation remains. Therefore, we are here to discuss a procedure aimed at any route, defending homes in the country and minimising uncertainty. The last major step taken in the righting of the Icelandic economy will result in a better economic situation for us Icelanders than the nation has ever experienced. That means we can do even better in the areas I described earlier. In fact, there has never been more than this, but we can still improve the status of the inferior and others can continue to increase their costs, and living in Iceland can continue to be better and better. So we're here discussing a matter not only of a difficult seven - year process but also of great success for the entire future that Iceland can enjoy a happy future in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u108	A respectable president. If I'm just a quick tip, I'm always confused when I'm kind of ordered to be happy. Joy isn't something I can do. You can't tell others to be happy, but you can hope for it. I'd like to try to make the world happy. The prime minister by showing him that he has a general sense of pleasure with these bills and the work that is behind them. I'd like to explain what my pleasure is. I feel that this is not a treasure or money in the sense that they can just go right into the economy, that there must be a very responsible basis for this from an economic point of view - and, on the other hand, a conversation with the demands. Looks the best. Does it not mean that there is a very important part of this process? Why did he say to me on April 22 that no such conversation had taken place when it is evident that it was going on and that it is a very important part of all of this? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u109	A respectable president. I rejoice in optional joy. A senator in charge of these matters and, in fact, the position of the government on matters above his head. Regarding the statement "wrong." A senator, that I said no conversation had taken place with the demanding men, is it not true, Mr President? I stated that no negotiations had taken place. They have certainly not occurred, for this is fundamental, in what is being presented, that this is not the product of negotiations. Humans were made to stand before a certain conclusion, and the fact that things are now being resolved is just because they were made to stand before a certain conclusion. But I mentioned, in the same question period as what. A senator refers to, of course, that would have been done -- I don't really remember how I put it, but that men had been informed about the course of events, including these members.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u110	A respectable president. So I'm just going to try to show understanding that somehow people want to look tough at this point and that no negotiations have been done. However, I understand this so that there is a very important aspect of this successful solution that you have opened up a conversation with the demanding workers in order to figure out how the stability conditions could look and how the demands could meet them. I just think it's all right to boast, too, of the smoothness that has been shown since then, and it's the smoothness we've had in the bright future. I just want to ask you a little bit about the vision, that's a similar question, and I asked the highest one. Financial and economic ministers. I don't think this example shows that a dollar, a dollar, does not handle much money transport. V.E.G. Prime Minister says, I think he said it this way: We won't have to increase export prices to cover private companies' debts. Does that mean the future? Does he see an Icelandic economy making it impossible to live up to foreign debts made by private companies? [[The president calls.]] In effect, I'm saying: Isn't the dollar too small, and does this not show us that a dollar is too small to handle even the smallest money transport?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u111	A respectable president. On the contrary. These four basics that I mentioned earlier in the restoration of the economy and, in fact, the restoration of the entire Icelandic economy, whether considered unemployment, increased export, or anything else, are largely based on the fact that we had our own business under control. We can look at Europe and the troubles that the Greeks are dealing with these days; compared with the situation in which we were in control of our money and, indeed, with the administration of our own legal rights and resources also, compared to the difficult if not a hopeless position faced by the Greeks as a currency.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u112	Mr. President. I wish to the highest. Prime Minister Davíð, the son of Gunnlaugsson, congratulated the government, and congratulated all of us on these bills. They're about a lot of really good stuff, and I think it looks like the crew's going to accept this way, anyway, so it looks really good. But one thing I would like to ask the highest. A prime minister is about how this money is taken care of. It is key that this is not arranged so that the demands can later come and say: "Hey, look, it was just a tax collector to pay for something in Iceland, they just build hospitals, etc. They then have a stronger legal basis for walking in us, which creates enormous uncertainty in the future. They have to be professional and responsible for this money in paying up the debt of state funds, as the projections show. Then space can be provided, income taken, and less paid for interest costs, and on that basis we can continue to grow without taking this risk with legal uncertainty. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask the prime minister how he feels about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u113	A respectable president. I generally think it's just a very reasonable remark by then. Senator. The very purpose is to deal with the problems that could threaten economic stability and threaten the status of their homes in the land. By handling the problem, and in fact correcting what had gone wrong, it is creating a situation to continue growing on our own terms. I think I can just say what I want to say. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u114	Mr. President. Then there's one thing, first of all, how to spend it. Then, with a special tax on financial companies resulting from this bill and the stocking of the broilers. It's a misbehavingly- - that it continues to be in the campaign hall of the advance party, okay, people seem to be happy with this. Second, there are 145 billion reimbursement payments from the Federal Bank, which is 145 billion. There are also 11 billion other debts. This may prove to be a total of 7 billion dollars. ... intheflashoftheweapon................................................................................................................ Good. That looks good. On the other hand, there are the rest, more than 500 billion, which goes on a special deposit account of the state funds in the Secret Bank, which should be used to pay off debt. This deposit account is open to government funds, the government can use it in consultation with the Huns Bank; it has nothing to obey the Huns Bank about it, it can use them, i.e. State funds, whether it's this government or the next one. It is a powerful temptation to have 500 billion who sit in the Secret Bank and, by this law, can be arranged by means of financial means. This is an overwhelming temptation. [[The president calls.]] Is it not something that we can do better to prevent this temptation from being present and that we can more fully attach it to how these things can be resolved in a responsible way?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u115	A respectable president. I assume that the procedures outlined in the law are sufficient. This government has shown that it will act wisely when it comes to economic control. I don't expect that even though it would later come to another government, it would go so far as to make in some way irresponsible decisions regarding the arrangement for this capital.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u116	Mr. President. I am generally very happy and do not need much encouragement. I'm going to start by making the most of it. Prime Minister by telling him that I rejoice over the issues presented here, and I hope that they will be able to make a great deal of peace. I would have liked it, though, more when I look at the top of my story inspection. Prime Minister to hear only mention of the strategy adopted in 2011. It seems to me that the current strategy is based on that plan, but the highest. The prime minister was now completely unaware of this in the history inspection. But he wanted to discuss the future. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister for the future, especially the highest. Secretary of finance now announces, which are tax downs in the wake of these actions. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister, whether it is his religion and his party, the Agency's office, that it is the most reasonable operation for us right now that we should be calming down for all years to maintain stability here when we are to take note of those international institutions, studies that all show that tax reforms and breadtime economics are out - of - date science. [[The president calls.]] To ensure balance and prosperity, the tax system must be properly run. [[The president calls.]] It's the highest. Minister agrees with this priority. Secretary of finance? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u117	A respectable president. Actually, I only mentioned the 2011 plan. Hv. A senator called for me to talk more about her. So I can do this by expressing my joy that she had not been followed. It was a big fortune, a respectable president, and forgotten to assume the main points, they forgot to assume the factors of the fallen banks in all of this. But to deal with it here is, as I mentioned in my speech, the main reason why these issues are now breaking down. But in terms of a question why. A senator on taxes and tax policy and whether it is safe to reduce taxes now, I have been that way, and it is still desirable to reduce the pressure on the public when economic circumstances allow for the much higher numbers that the public and actually companies have had in recent years. I can say what. A senator here made clear that the measures the government will take in terms of tax matters will be in line with what the economy otherwise allows. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u118	Mr. President. As far as I could hear from Monday's presentation of decommissionment as the bank manager made it clear that this plan was based on the 2011 programme. So I assume that the highest. The prime minister disagrees with the bank manager about the work that has taken place and calculates it by correcting me otherwise. In terms of tax reductions, I would like to reiterate that economics have failed to result in the correct economic provision for reducing taxes as much as possible, allowing society's upper levels to gain as much as possible and thus, in some way, prosperity will collapse like streams through society and benefit the lowest paid. It is very important that we take note of the experience that has come into play in the economics that were run through in the 1980's and '90s in the Western world, and it is very important that we learn of the highest intentions. Governments in these matters. If we are serious because we want to secure the standard of living and that everyone can enjoy what we have here in this good country, it is important that the quality is spread by justice. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Among other things, we do so through the tax system.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u119	A respectable president. First of all, because I was asked directly about the 2011 Council Bank plan, the operation is not based on that plan. On the contrary, we are taking special care of what was missing. In terms of the tax system, it is proper to state due to comments. A member of this government's change in the tax system and, in fact, tax costs have also been designed to increase the equation, not the other, as we see the facts that income balance has never been as high as modern Iceland. There we can do even better. In fact, the ratio of poverty has not been as low as it is, but we can do better there.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u120	Mr. President. I can believe that any time, I'm going to take an order from the Supreme Court. Prime Minister of rejoicing However, I do not need to do so on this day, for I share his joy. To tell you the truth, I feel as if a weight has been lifted off my shoulders. I agreed with many points in the talk the highest. The prime minister, who was absolutely excellent. He is correct in saying that a seven - year - long hard process of rubbing down the surface of the reef is now being completed so that the next step can be attacked because the game is not over. Now, there are seven years of efforts to lift capital capital heads, to refer to Buchheit Buuchs negotiationr on TV yesterday. V.E.G. The prime minister is now known for never forgetting anything. Did he not even forget a list of the reasons and what led to this place? I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister: Does he feel that it was of no importance when the General took the money of the two - men on March 12, 2012, and introduced them to Icelandic economic law? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Does he really think it didn't matter? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u121	A respectable president. In the past, I specifically stated that the 2011 Council Bank is not the basis for what we are discussing today, but the late bat deserves commendation for what may have happened. A senator mentioned in his inquiry, i.e. The suggestions for the changes made on the good day of March 12, 2012. This was followed by a group of prominent men, and I think about it. A senator even knew some of them and had some dealings with them, was struggling to draw attention to the danger of not falling apart. I wasn't sure about it at the time when the bill was shown whether it was sufficient to reach the goals it reached, so that now it is and has done for some time that the bill worked, and no reason to minimize it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u122	Mr. President. Aren't we supposed to be happy on this day? Why don't we just let ourselves be big? Not the highest. The prime minister to allow his masked character and degree to break out? Of course, he is happy that on the night of March 12, 2012, he built his weapons, equipped with a shotgun, the most deceptive serpent. Since then, the prime minister has used it. It alone, that operation, is enough to lay the basis for what we are doing now. And why does it admit to the highest. Prime Minister it is not, just as I can tell him that he is doing a good job with these bills, including Because it seems to me they're preventing the threat of some kind of damage to the homes of the country, following some kind of gang panic that might result from this? Why doesn't he say that it was what deceived his bat? There may be a certain explanation. She's the highest. The prime minister did not have the courage to resist the demands that filled the council here that evening; he led his company to his residence. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] He did not support the illusion, but he swings it with dignity today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u123	A respectable president. Right when I thought it would be. A senator was going to resist the temptation to make a mistake and be just happy; the light had even begun to blink, then he lost himself, unfortunately. But I took it exactly in my previous answer that this would have been a reasonable option and I believe that it is a reason to use this opportunity here and to mention in particular the two employees of Iceland who have a great deal of credit for all of this, the Freyr Hermannsson and the Ingjörður Ingibjörg Guðbjartsdóttir, who understood the need to make these changes, the changes that I had been able to make since then, after the town men had found a serious danger caused by the fact that the bank's worn out as if the bank's worn out as would have been the case from 2011. [[Up front.]] It was hard, however, to realize at one meeting down here late at night or at the same time whether it was enough to pose a danger. But it has, and it's a joyous, respectable president, and I and what. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson and a respectable president should allow us to rejoice over such things as others. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u124	But what about V.M. and Steingrímur J.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u125	A respectable president. What a joy this contest will be! I'm glad she's here. It also appeared to me as a certain, understandable need for many senators, after many years of hard work with the capital heads, for trying to maintain that many people have been involved in this matter. There are many credits for having reached a good conclusion, and that is good. I have no particular standing in the race to take credit for what is being presented here today. In the bright future, we have not been able to reach a government, and we have been viewers of this process, have tried to have some objective and upbuilding things to do with it. I've been on the decommissionment committee and some meetings have been held there. They've been good, but mine knows too few, so if there's something I should now criticize in this process, it's now that there would have been quite more meetings in that good group. He was well put together, including by people from the former government who had been very rich in this matter and who would have been able to offer just as they have been here in the public stand today. Of course, it's a common project. It's always been already there. The seas were put out of the obvious need. Everyone said it, and I had it just so that since then it has been the common political, parapolitic task of trying to get us out of this crisis environment. Sometimes I don't like the way men have prepared this assignment and how they put it on the table, how they've talked about it. In the bright future, we like these bills, and I feel that I have to explain their joys and support them here in my case. We have particularly criticized two things, we have said: The scope for the release - which no one has disputed, no one has had that his political policy would be used to pay off foreign credits in Iceland, it has not been a lawsuit of any kind. It's been in the past a while, let's say, it didn't lie directly after a crash, and not in the two or three years of a crash. This picture began drawing up gradually, that these farms could not leave the country in exchange for currency, it was always there. In political terms, we have called that fact space, the air that has to go out of the economy. We've criticized it, and we do it, how some political parties, some politicians, have talked about this leeway. They've been talking about it like there's some money in there. It was the campaign for the last election that men almost wanted to take all the space we can see, numbers mentioned at 300 to 600 billion, and use it all to pay off the head of the household debt. This amount had already been calculated as reducing the house's debt, the home's capital, about 20%. We have opposed and opposed such plans, that this money is used in this way. We have said that this money is not money in the sense that it can be used for financial spending or that it can be distributed over the economy. This money was created because of a economic mismanagement that was involved in the collapse, in which too much money went into circulation for decisions such as reducing commitment, on account of the Secret Bank's love bonds with national financial institutions. This increased the amount of money in circulation, and that is the amount of money we are now getting back into the Secret Bank. If we were to use this amount of money in an irresponsible way, we would be repeating the mistakes that were made in the 2005's when this money was taken over and Iceland went on its side. It's particularly important, because this kind of economy is constantly taking place in Iceland and not just in Iceland, but in other countries of secular history, to emphasize strongly that this money is being handled in a responsible, economic way. It's not money in the sense that this is some kind of sustainable revenue for a government fund that he can use to build up projects. It would be to increase the amount of money in circulation by putting it all into the economy. We have made comments that men spoke as if it were not a matter of concern. It's no problem in a political bitch waving funds, you can always say to the voters: we're going to get 500 billion. Politicians have done so over the years, the easiest way to get any summer of money they can think of is by their own economy simply to print them, just to start the printing machines. It is naturally just a letter with a picture on it, and it does not require much of itself to create this message with a picture on it. You can always do this. I strongly emphasize that these people have done and what Iceland and I did here in the interest of government over the years before a crash was in force. We just printed that money. They went into the economy, causing inflation. It is very important that we do not repeat, because the temptations to do this, especially during a year of election, which is 2016-2017, when this money may begin to flow into the funds of the Secret Bank, will be abundant. I hear they're coming along now, they're talking about leeway to tax doctors at this point when people are talking about this big money. Some of this money has already been spent on so - called debts or debts. They've already put this into the economy and put some of this into the economy. Let us also see that it will be difficult to use this money to pay off public debts. On the other side of public debt lies someone's savings. It's someone who owns government bonds and according to my cookbooks, if we were to pay off all government bonds in a single winter of state's domestic debt, it would not necessarily have to be a practical influence. Similarly, if we are going to use this money to pay off the foreign debt of state funds, it will, of course, be the unwise thing to do, the kind of influence that we are trying to prevent right now. The amount of money would flow out of the country, causing a crash in the gangs of the crown. Nevertheless, I think, and it's obvious to pay up the money letter so called, that the wisest way to use this money is to pay off debt. I'm glad it's the same thing here at the Hall of Congress. It is very important, and it will need strong political bones to maintain that harmony. We should also realize that this assignment is not simple. At this point, I thirst for a deep and varied economic analysis of how this money will be wisely adjusted. I suppose the point of view is that it is the most reasonable thing to put it in a piece of paper, and then perhaps some of the opinion that it is all right to spend this money for some building projects. I don't think that's okay, but I want to hear all the practical reasoning at this point and I think it's very important. At any rate, as the bill on the stability tax bill says, and may stand on the other bill as well, a great deal of support is expected to be made for this money. This is what we've emphasized. We've been asking questions, e.g. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Prime Minister here at the I asked the highest. The prime minister here at some point in March whether this coin was not for free use for government funds, and it was somewhat after the book implied that you had the advantage of demands. That atmosphere has blessedly changed. The other things that we stressed and have been blessed with, at least during the day, have made it seem reasonable for others to have thought that we always had to talk - I don't know what to call this, conversation, negotiations, or some sort of verbal exchange - between the government and the councilmen. This is not because we have something special about the demands of the crew; we have only realized that taxation will be prepared to solve this foreign property in this country, if it is as radical as it would have to be, a challenge could be to protect such taxation from the courts. The stable tax as it appears here on the bill is extremely radical. In the case of some, - if we say that our farms are the problem, that's obviously what's the problem, the estate of the farms, we've been living like a Council of Buy, which actually has relatively small credits, and the tax as shown in the stability bill is really about, I calculate, 130% of the domestic property of the farm. There is a gross tax in that case, and in the case of the Lands Bank, it is also a very radical tax because, in many respects, the Old Lands Bank has already negotiated, up to a very large extent, the exchange of property. This appears in the national bank letter that has been extended so that it might also be in a strange position if it was to pay the stable tax, it might have to pay a little more than one of the domestic property. Nevertheless, the stable tax is well developed, this is what needs to be done. But what we always felt was missing - we could say: Yes, it is wise to go this taxing route, it is simple, and there is an equal basis in it, but it must always appear as an absolute remedy. We need to be able to say here as ruling authority: This is the absolute resources, other moderate measures have been tried. That's what I always thought was important. I was a big puzzle that would have to be in hand with all of this. That is why hearing that attitude all the time troubled me. For example, on April 22, the prime minister in his reply to my inquiry asked if there had been a discussion with a demandser, as reported in the news. I was hoping that the answer would be yes because of my concerns. I would have thought it would have strengthened the position of the Icelanders if they had just said, "Yes, the demands have been heard." We've been talking to them. In other words, it would have been bad if we were here today just with the bill on stable taxes and no news of a conversation with the demands; no bill that would be defined as the necessary basis for these contracts. It would have been bad, and over a period, I thought that men were headed that way, to come here only with the stable tax. Then it would have been hard to sit on a financial and business committee to get a representative of the crew to a meeting and answer such questions as these: Why hasn't anyone talked to us? Why have less measures been tried? Why have we not been given the opportunity to negotiate these crowns? It would have been hard to meet such views. I am, therefore, alively glad that this is the way that has begun to offer this choice, to offer the fixed contracts, to define the conditions that must be met, as it has been requested, defined the terms of such covenants, that they will be accepted only by a document from the Sensian Bank. This makes sense, and this is in the spirit of what we've called after, and I don't understand why a man is in a race for this achievement, a government leader, rejecting the fact that this conversation or conversation with the demands has taken place. I think it's a top priority in promoting Iceland's position. That's why I'm so happy about this. There's a certain definitional war on it, or the war of history, in great joy of nature, about what has been done. One thing in this discussion of the seas and the media has been important to me. I don't think we should take the lesson into the future, from all of this, that we have become victims of some sort of wicked alien resident. I don't think it's the responsible conclusion we're supposed to draw from this or to conclude that we're somehow dating these foreigners. I think it's very important, and I thought we were at the point when the NTSB report came out here, that we had our own responsibility in all of this. This was made, as I went over the past, a bit of vast economic error on the part of Icelanders in the wake of the collapse. There was too much money in circulation. I find it crucial to realize that this species of economicalism, sadly occurring there, has been a bit of a red thread in Iceland's economic history. It is well explained here in this fine Jónsson, Sigurgeirsson For example, I would like to mention this: It's the kind of thing that was happening here, during the restoration years, and out of them, that 20 to 30% of the banks were to go into the funds of the Federal Bank. It was such a tie duty, should've gone to the Secret Bank, and should've only been there. This was to reduce the amount of money in traffic, to hold back the expansion. It's always been a problem in Iceland, trying to hold back the spell. But what happened? It developed political pressure, and so on, and it formed prospectively rich political solidarities - I don't know if it was a solidarity, but the need to support basic work was formed. There was a great pressure to lend this money to the fishing road, which was very difficult. It is not to ask that, because of this political pressure, this money came from the funds of the Federal Bank. The list of loans was missing, and as attributed to the report, this is one reason for the excessive inflation that characterized the community in the 1970s and 1980s. Such a spread of money into society is a manifestation of one of the most common, I think, an economic error made by Icelanders and repeatedly practiced in the history of world history. How important it is that we realize that despite the wonderful promises at this time, Iceland has kept its funds in jeopardy! We don't have much money, do we? A fine example is the land - phone money that was to be prepared for the construction of a land hospital or a high - tech hospital. That coin just disappeared somewhere and nobody knows where it is. The campaign was held before the last election, and it was also about this, to reach and distribute this fund, not to sea plants, but to the head of the prized debt of the households, and to have already made part of it. Just these obvious examples show that the temptation to reach out for this money is going to be very rich, and it is very important to emphasize a profound economic analysis of what would be acceptable at this moment to do with it. I also feel very important the tone that has been presented during the discussion, and in the future we also have emphasis on the questions and other matters in our speech, that this mission to clear the seas - and in fact, there is good reason to stress that we are not, as well as the other. paritaprevir The masks of J. Sigfússon and others have pointed out to remove the seas with these roots. These bills are not about to be removed; they are inducing a fundamental barrier to emissions. I think it's very important to get close to this, so we're just trying to get rid of this pressure, we're just maintaining stability. There is no doubt that there may be a big difference between what comes into the state's budget or the bank account depending on whether a stable tax or a stable tax will be paid. It is very important not to lose sight of the fact that the amount that comes in will be much lower through the stability process and if it gets lower, it's just because the amount of the problem is less. We're not at this moment trying to get more money through this, we're just trying to solve this problem, which is this over-crowding thing that wants to look out, that she doesn't get out of the economy. Then I'd like to praise Sigurður the son of Hannesson, one of the experts who worked to resolve these matters on behalf of the government. He says this in an interview with the News News magazine today, that we should not worry about how much stability will be achieved, if the policy of contract is gone, if it's less money in this fund. It's a pleasure, it's just that the size of the problem was less. This will calm me down. This will show me that men are approaching this responsibility. Finally, I'd like to have a few words about the future. As I'm saying, there's not been a cutting off. As shown in the case of key advisers in this process, Lees Buchheits, it will be decommissioned, if it is usually a realistic goal, taking years, and being years of time. As I have seen in my comments today, I think that the process we are going through right now, by taking these crowns into account in the Secret Bank, should tell us a story that the Icelandic currency is simply too small to be able to handle foreigners taking their possessions out of the country in kroner, unfortunately. The Icelandic dollars cannot handle funding transport, at least not of this magnitude, and I think what has happened in recent years is that the foreign demands have only figured it out. It took that time for them to realize that the value of these assets was increasing in a country that may have been in their mind of good news, but it was always there, and it was always better to see that a dollar is not able to make money. It's good for everyone to realize at this point and that it leads to that conclusion, but the news for the rest of us who live here is of course a little bit worried. Well, the crown can't handle the capital transport. She won't. It has been said in the discussion of this that even the smallest money export to another currency has an effect on the crew of the crown. We know this, of course. We have an economy that even the smallest capital transport has a major impact on the crews of the kroner. The questions raised are obvious: How will life be after that operation? What do we see? Handing up a dollar? Is the dollar a rich need for the Icelanders themselves, not just pension funds, but companies and individuals, to invest more money in possessions abroad? Will she handle it? Are these not the questions you see? And is it not only real that the failure from 2005 repeats itself? The late bank is about to increase growth, increase growth, increase growth, and increase in growth; and with this crown, we seem to dream that it is in some way out of control here. Does she hand in flows on interest rates in interest trade? Why would she do that? The result? If we are going to have a dollar at a table, are we not always looking at a crown in considerable water? I'm not gonna talk about it if we're going on top of it, repeat the mistake from 2005 up and down and put all this money in traffic in some very undesirable way. But I view these bills as a turning point. We're at a cross section when we see these bills, and they can play very well in all of this. I hope all of this, when we replace this great obstacle, will motivate us to deal with other obvious problems, such as this lack of policy that exists in the future budget of currency. I hope we can get further into creating a free and open market community, I think that should be our goal, and then we need to deal with more big opinions than this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u126	President. Yes, I'm both happy and happy, and I think we're here at a turning point, like what happened. A senator said that he is now doing an enormous amount of work that has been going on for many years. It's not like it's been won in two years. This was clearly evident by the highest. Secretary of finance this morning that no one was trying to find out what the problem was until 2014, they first saw the real problem. Of course, it cannot be attacked directly without knowing who he is. First, plan 2011, and then this famous legal system was 2012, and experts have been working on it very well, and politicians seem to have made good decisions at certain time points. Let's see, more dignified President, it's not as if politicians have won all the work we're working on here, they've made decisions, and they seem to have made good decisions. I am glad that they now seem to have made a wise decision to go this way and go on this conversation, which we must not call just conversation. So I wonder: Can it be, without my wanting to be salting on the wound, that one part of this play, i.e. that this is not a conversation, is it not that the conference committee had not been called since December because it was not to be heard or seen, that no one should know that there was a thorough conversation; as if they were actually supposed to be instead of threatening people constantly? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u127	A respectable president. I appreciate the question. I just think it's a bit strange this need for government leaders, and especially the highest. Prime Minister, to deny this conversation. Why? I would have thought that the conversation was the key point of the initials that are here today and that extraordinary good news that the conversations have produced that key demands are prepared to meet the conditions of the Federal Bank on the same day, on the day that it is presented. I think it's very effective, and I don't understand why the atmosphere is so against this project that it's not a good thing and it's not a virtue. This is what's been called after, and I think this is the key in all of this. But I think it was some people's real desire to go to this case with the shotgun. I've felt that people speak that way, and I've made comments about it. I think that was what might have had to be settled at the finish line that it would not be good for Icelandic interests to have a shotgun in the air, or I would even say the cannon in this case, because the stable tax is extremely radical. It also had to have another bill that is not exactly a yellow root. Rather, I would say, some sort of whip tunnel, the demands of the crew have a more milder way of reaching the same goal. It was very important that this was the case. I can imagine that if we had the forwarding party at the government position right now, he would make a lot of comment about the fact that head of the company is offering this form of agreement. [[The president calls.]] I can totally support a position of government, such as the last term that would be making comments now on the way to negotiate. [[The president calls.]] It's good that it's not being done.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u128	A respectable president. V.E.G. At the end of his case, the prime minister said - without me wanting to be some pessimism - that there had never been a better time in Iceland. Granted, we've taken a big step, but I find it deep in my years to say that we've never looked to a better future. We could go shopping now, and now we could do it, and now we could do it. A respectable president. We cannot forget that the damage we all experienced has not been undone when the terrible economic breakdown occurred in 2008. Even if money will flow into the treasure of the Kingdom, there is a long way in which we carry ours after that. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u129	A respectable president. Of course, I would be the last man to comment on the fact that men looked to the bright future, but still have a strong solution in Icelandic society. I pay attention to the approach that the damage is done. I don't know exactly what it looks like, the damage. In fact, I think there are clues, such as the evidence in the report I was here or in this assessment, deducting that from what the government fund has pointed out, and from what is likely to be, it may be possible for people to come, from the capital, to profit from the collapse, they still have to sell property in the Secret Bank and Bank accounts. [[The president calls.]] True, the damage is another one, but I don't know if it's necessarily the right approach. I would like to learn a lesson from this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u130	Mr. President. Materially said what. A senator, in his excellent speech earlier, would have people here today in a bit of an explanation of history. Then I remembered that the night had come. A senator who for a minute and a half called himself a pessimist brought in discussions about the government budget of a flashy speech. That's what it said. paritaprevir It's Valgerður Bjarnadóttir of what? paritaprevir Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson, God told him he was trapped in the past, and no one would steal it. I remember a very significant answer. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur of Thor Þór Þórðarson's son, who had this attitude, by permission of a president, word for word: ▪ I don't like historians by saying that they have no style at talking about the past. On this day, I think it is inevitable that I am not a lamp to the past. It is of utmost importance because of the words that have fallen, that we look at what is going on here and compare them with the past. Let us not forget that the highest. The prime minister, together, struggled with the loss of a condition that would result in a failure route. It took two years for him to understand that she created a very dangerous situation for Iceland. Hence, there is a way in which there is, in effect, no other way than a business arrangement. People have conversations with demands that listen to their attitudes and they come to some conclusion. It's not what. A senator completely agrees with me that what we're discussing here is in effect the conclusion of a form of negotiation and that the failure route was rejected?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u131	A respectable president. I wholeheartedly agree that the story can be discussed in style and at this point very important. It is very important to review it, from the viewpoint of many individuals in this process, what man's understanding of what has happened. It is important that we learn a good lesson from all of this and that we recognize what is going on here. Yes, I think at a time there was one particular consideration of history, so it was fundamental that men wanted to go that harsh failure route. It was that we were primarily victims of bad foreigners, vultures, in all of this, and that this coin was some kind of damage to us. I find that fundamentally difficult, and I think that it would have been a challenge to prepare it for judgment. I felt that flirting was thus burned at a penchantful way. I'm not blinding the fact that these views will spring up when we discuss these actions. I can, as I briefly traced earlier, imagine another kind of government opposition standing here and saying: "Hey, that's way too close. We're supposed to go to these vultures and get a lot more money. Get around 70% of the tax and cause a lot of damage and so on, it's ridiculous to be negotiating and all of this. I think it took a while to wind down those attitudes. I think it's good that theirs couldn't right now, because I think it would be a very difficult journey if they wanted to go on something like that. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u132	Mr. President. The point of ◯ War damages to a man is absolutely right. But if the bankruptcy route had gone, there would have been a historical precedent that she could have led to danger over Iceland. Besides, the Supreme Court here fell in October/November, which literally showed that this was not possible. But when I say it's good for us to consider the history and the past in this matter, that includes learning from it. How much did this cost us? What was the cost of a two - year - long or whole - year decision, such as Benedikt Jóhannesson, editor of the evidence, and the author of that report. A senator mentioned earlier, Ásgeir Jónsson and Hersir Sigurgeirsson? How much is a year's magic? It was hit here by a business agency in the afternoon. It costs 80 billion a year. So, the delay at the highest. The bankruptcy cost the prime minister about 80 to 120 billion dollars. [[The president calls.]] It's just good to know.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u133	A respectable president. Yes, that's right, because a lot of people were charging for action and entering the government after some plan. Many have done so in the conference room during question periods and discussions since the beginning of this election period. It had become very strange how long it took. There's something to wonder about. Could these contracts have been reached earlier? Men could have had a shotgun raised to wave, men could have gone bankrupt as such a gun. Would men have been able to use these palatures sooner? Now I call this feelin', I hope it's okay, or this conversation that I hear is acceptable to call it a name, would have been possible to go into it sooner? It's interesting to me that this review, this plot at its disposal, is supported by Glimtion's tear control. [[The president calls.]] The authors conclude there, seems to me, that some combination, selection, or taxation, would be a reasonable conclusion. [[The president calls.]] This is written by break - up counseling, which suggests that men may have been in this bustling process long before.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u134	President. Thank you. A senator for a fine speech. It may not be reasonable that the answers focus primarily on one part of the talk, i.e. The explanation war. It is, in fact, amazing that it has come up, this historical war, and it suggests that it is not completely reconciled to governments as the journey took place. I thought it was here earlier in my dealings. The senators of Páll's annual Árnason and son Karl Garðarsson, who was defending the government's way, but the governor was actually pulling it ashore. I think you're right. I think it's also true that after all, it doesn't matter who voted how in 2012 or 2011 or when it was. What matters for the nation, for the history of the land, and for the future decisions it is that, no matter what the situation today, this is the way of making a deal. It's done the best for us Icelanders. Of course, there are times when humans need one option. The country was occupied in 1940, and there was no bargaining offer. That is also true of some related news that I am not going to go into. There have also been good decisions not to go along the business route, it should not be automatic. Of course, the 1958 weekend and later reports were not a means to negotiate, but then we had to strike back. That's the way it was. Much less historical cases were so Icesave we know very well here. The method of negotiation was not gone, but it certainly was close. Another example, when the negotiation was not gone, was the battle for the great loan of 1929, which Ólafur Björnsson, economist, and independent, said in a fine paper that has actually advanced world crisis in Iceland for some five years; they wanted to have a defur Björður and would not go along with much bigger and more powerful opponents. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u135	A respectable president. It is just a little strange this need for government officers to deny in some way that treaties have worked. I think it's strange. It may be part of this controversial history war that one arm in the administrative work has a somewhat rich desire to appear harsh in this and harder than other people, and can even care for others to be on the side of the other side of all of this. This is a well - known phrase. We hear this, too, when we argue about the European Union, on its involvement, those involved in the European Union are engaged in a trade with the European Union, not in national interests. It's a pain in the ass. I think we need to wind this off. Of course, those who were speaking for a conversation, such as me and others, were speaking for Icelandic interests, were pointing out that it was likely a successful way. But then I'm also impressed by this display of toughness in this business, with the so - called vultures, or what they are called, it's interesting. I do not belittle the fact that at this point it is necessary to include the bill on stability tax in order to show what is available if negotiations are not reached; it is a geosomatic question whether it needs a bill or not, in view of the fact that the response to a contract method has been very positive. You also notice that in other areas of society, I feel that there is nothing particularly hard for Icelandic interests, for example, when it comes to trying to get a good price for our energy, which we are applying for at high cost and trying to gain money from the sea resources and so on, men get more and more. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u136	Yes, Mr. President, I hope this comment on the true Icelanders against representatives of other interests, which arose in the incident of the past. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson was moved - thanking him for it, treating him as a man more as he is said on such occasions - after a while and a considerable number of small speeches, to apologize for a series of sabbaticals that crossed the border. Of course, it's time for us to close our doors to the Icelandic legend of doing this, probably because of how little this country is and how discouraged we are from being viewed by foreigners.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u137	A respectable president. I certainly hope that the milestone has been here in the discussion that this so - called national fiscal battle - even though people may not use that word directly, these facts indicate that people are doing the business of other interests than the national interests - are history, and people see that this is not going to work out. It is so obvious, for example, in our present discussion that, of course, all of us have been sincerely approaching this subject for the sake of the nation, which is obvious. This discussion needs to be handled fairly. It was especially good for me to hear a talk. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon earlier, a minister of finance during these difficult times. He explained how the situation has developed, how the matter has been taking shape. At the beginning of this matter, they did not know whether it was a problem or not. [[The president calls.]] Then there is no way for others to step out of the way, and friends to do something different; they did not realize the scope of the problem at that time; there was no information. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u138	Mr. President. We're talking about the first of three initiatives in the release of jams, and the main objective in this first phase is to ensure that the swelling stocks, the broilers, are settled within a fixed frame as high as possible. Bjarni Benediktsson's minister has spoken of economic stability. It is made clear in the bill that the purpose of this is economic stability. True, it is also a matter of being guided by public interests. The way the government has taken is economic stability, but it would have been possible to go another way. The discussion has some kind of full - scale damage to Iceland's economic collapses. That way isn't gone, it's going the constant route whether it's the right decision or not, I don't know. Actually, values in themselves want to be fully damaged, although there may be problems with more uncertainty. You may not get it out, and you may be able to stand up with less in your hands when you stand up for legal application and such things. It's a set of values, like the Icesave speech. The Icesave debate was a set of values, the debate in society began to be shallow, but because the nation saw that it could bind the hands of the Lawgiver in a national hearing grew deeper and deeper, lasted for a long time, and eventually was founded on whether it was right for the Icelanders to pay for this damage or whether foreign people to pay for it. It is the values that existed then. It also set values for the danger. In the matter of where the risk really is, it was different. However, it was based on values. The value that the government has chosen in this regard is not fully damaged but economic stability. The bills just seem to be quite successful, and this is a way that seems to involve a measure of stability. If you look at stability, you will see that certain uncertainties have already been eliminated because of the government's collective adviser to the largest demands. Immediately after these bills are presented, the demands are declared to be content with the way of achieving economic stability. That in itself is a good thing at first, but there are two things that I especially worry about when it comes to these paths. One is that if this stability barrier, the frame that has been acquired, is too large, the interests of the public and the company and the public in Iceland will be much more narrow at the same time. I don't know exactly which numbers are, but they haven't quite been clearly identified. This depends on a number of factors that have not been introduced to us in the so - called RMP of the classes for execution. Of course, the matter is not a consultation committee, there is no common advice on how this should be done; it is an information meeting that was important, but it calls things the right names. At this meeting of information in this so-called consultation committee, we have received some information, but we have not clearly stated what this really will mean in money, how much the state will receive and how many will find its way into the Secret Bank, loans paid to complete the campaign of the Agency Party, etc. Whether or not to go on the fixed-up tax bill, whether it will go on the contract and accept the tax, or whether it will be decided to go the short way, the pay way, and not to the tax. Then there are other routes to return to the Secret Bank and possibly a government fund. However, these figures need to be clear, and there is something that we will need to consider and will seek to clean up on a discussion in the Committee, from the council, and from other sources. There we will see the real frame of activity that this stretcher has made, and then we can begin to evaluate the limitations of Iceland's equipment. The other thing I'm particularly worried about is how the budget that goes into the state's budget is set aside. If we follow the first bill, the stability tax bill, the route will be on both pages 34 and 23 of the bill. True, both are not exactly the same. Page 34 is told: It is planned that tax revenues will be first spent to help reduce the income of a special tax on a financial company that leads to this bill and the development of the broils. The tax, which is now at the stock market, which is funding the campaign of the advance party, which was a good means of financing it, will naturally fall when the house is down, or have taken over, the other tax, the stable tax, and somehow it needs to be financed. First of all, they're going to put aside a coin to finish paying for it. This says on page 34: And secondly, if they are spent paying up a bond published by the state's fund to finance Iceland's Pencil Bank... It seems to me that some of these loans account for 200 billion that the government fund took to reimburse the Pension Bank and the rest will be paid up. On the other hand, this is quickly turned to head on page 23. It says: So the Rich Fund will use tax first to pay off the bond published for Iceland's Secret Bank. [...] Other government funds from the tax, with the exception of lost income from other tax returns on the tax fees, that's the campaign for the Agency, the tax on the market, the tax on the special tax business -- ◯ Price laid aside for a special deposit in Iceland's Secret Bank... Second, there was no harmony where it is interesting in itself. This may reflect that these are the different ways in which the forward party and the Independence Party want to go on. So these are the first two things, so if the government fund takes this tax, if it is the way that is beginning to end the broken contracts, it is a different way, and then it is not the second bill but the first, the stability tax, it is paid, it goes into the state funds, it is spent on the other hand to pay back the Secret Bank, 145 billion, and on the other hand, the election for the forward of the forward Party. How much is left of it? Can someone in the hall tell me how much the campaign promises will be? Is there 40 billion left, or is it 60 billion, to this total of 80 billion? ... [["Yes, that's...]] [[The president calls.]] Been two years, so...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u139	The talk has the word. The president asks members of Congress not to engage in conversation in the Assembly Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u140	I'm sorry about that, but at least we have the numbers. That's probably 40 billion there. After this is done and paid up, as shown on page 34 again, some kind of cross- and short-term bond is owned by a total of 11 billion broilers. It disappears, with over 150 billion in total, who have paid as debts. The rest of the information here may be worth more than 500 billion. But as noted earlier, it is told me that running accounts in the Federal Bank are being spent at the cost of this money, as an opportunity afforded. Page 34 tells us that these funds are to be devoted to the reduction of government bonds. In the opening paragraph on the target, it is stated that in a budget, the planned treatment and the provision of funds should be explained. Ministers shall consult Iceland's Council Bank on the assessment of this impact on economic and financial stability. A little higher says, with the permission of a president: The financial and financial stability goals of the budget should be consistent with the financial and financial stability of the budget. This seems to bind the hands of the secretary of finance as well as the council, but it does not. Less than 500 billion will lie in the running account of the state's funds in the Sensitian Bank, which can be placed on budgets. And who is trusting the politicians who have access to 500 billion in a cookie box in the Federal Bank to avoid piling in it? Of course, all of us want to use what is in this cakebox to build up our community. The health system is in desperate need of money. According to medical directors of my own health system, the changes I made in the last budget are three billion in terms of the budget that were last paid. There's 3 billion missing. What politician is going to resist the pressure that will be taken to finance the building? And why should we not use this money to build up our community? Maybe we should. Then we're already talking about it, but what happens then? What happens or has been observed during the discussion is that the demanding men who received this high tax, such as clearly justified but tall, might start to lament and say: "Hey, they took this tax to finance structure. It's just stealing. They could win that case, and then it's just an independent thing. Will we take that chance? That brings back the value point, but it's the situation that might come. I see a few politicians who trust to stand in front of voters in leading the next election and don't say, "We're going to use this money to build up." It is quite likely that at least one person will go on and say this, and then we are in a crisis that is totally contrary to the stated purpose of this prime event, which is economic stability. If we are going to go through an economic stability, we are to be consistent in this. The cake box in the Secret Bank with the money isn't locked. If we're going to secure economic stability and that politicians don't get into the cakebox, we need to lock it up better. That's not good enough for those initials. It can be locked. There are precedents for all kinds of ways to do so. One is the Norwegian oil reserve. He's sitting there, and he's only used on specific grounds. Congress can, of course, change that, but it does not do so in these natural laws that always exist. This requires a special bill of law to change the oil fund. It could be done, locked up in here that there was some cash that would pay off the debt of state funds, depending on the economic stability offered. What happens then? The debt will turn down, which brings great joy. According to these figures, they're going to decrease 145 + 11, and we're already at 156 billion. According to the Convention group, this averages, on average, 5% interest in the state's debt, above the brain if we use the thumb rule on it, with 7.5 billion, which is similar to a reduction in the fishing budget in its time, and 75% of the wealth tax, which was one of 10 billion. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] It has already become a small amount of money that reduces the burden of government funds. We have to pay 7.5 billion less, and we immediately have that space. That's very good. As we go through the wind, and if we use the cookie box in the Secret Bank to pay off our debts, there will always be more room for it. Thus, we would be just within the framework of this bill, of keeping the focus on economic stability. If the cookie box is not locked, economic stability has not been guaranteed by this bill and should only be honest with it. Then perhaps we are just going somewhere else. Maybe it's a better way. I don't know, but we won't know unless we take that discussion and look at it. I'll take it together. In many ways these are good bills and will immediately bring benefits to country and nation. There are two things that I see as a concern, however, which are the real frames after all, and we need to get them numbers. The greater the strength of the swelling is, the more narrow the advantage of the people of the land. And if the cookie box in the Secret Bank is as unlocked as it is in this prime station, there is a great temptation to go beyond the main objective of this bill, which is economic stability. We need to take all of this into consideration and consider it on the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u141	A respectable president. What a milestone it is when, at last, we see the end of the rigid currency that the nation has been living in for seven years! Individuals and businesses can gradually start working properly on international markets that we need and at the same time provide for the end of the bank collapse. I'd like to wish the presidents of the government, my lord. Prime Minister Davíð, Gunnlaugsson and the highest. The secretary of finance, Bjarni Benediktsson, congratulations on excellent work as well as on the large group of people responsible for this work, including the last government. In the end, Iceland's currency crisis is sure to be decommissioned, and it is one of the biggest cases of Icelandic politics in modern times and a joy to see how successful it seems to be in this matter and how deep a diagnosis has been made of the problem that needed to be solved and its scope. Yet, despite the positive news that the currency head is finally leaving, it is still a major factor in the progress that has been achieved in recent years in turning a deep economicpace in this country. However, if so much oceans had been kept longer, it would have set our nation's inhabitants on the path of my economic growth, which would, of course, have been to reduce the well - being of the land. I'd just like to step aside to the timeline on this important matter as described in the bill and to show more than anything else how vastly long, complicated, and difficult this process has been. In July 2009, the current government approved a release programme prepared by Iceland's Secret Bank in consultation with the Ministry and by technical assistance from the World Bank. The management of the project was in the hands of a management board on the release of capital syrup under the top secretary of the economy. The first step was to step forward on October 30, 2009 by granting influx of foreign currency to new investors and the emissions of currency that could result in the future. In March 2011, the then government adopted a new emissions programme. The plan was taken by Iceland's Secret Bank in cooperation with the Ministry and in cooperation with the World Bank. The plan was divided; to lower the position of the Off-counter and in the second phase to free the head of other crowns. The plan was not timed. Rather, its future was taken into account by certain national conditions that would have to be present at the disposal. In accordance with this strategy, Iceland's Secret Bank held a currency tenders as well as additional relief efforts were made by evacuation of specific sources primarily aimed at benefiting smaller companies and individuals. However, in the autumn of 2013, when a new government was established, the Ministers' Committee for Economic Change of Organizational Work adopted a capital crisis. The management of the project remained in the hands of the aforementioned management committee, but a group of six advisers was appointed to make recommendations on individual steps and a plan for the release of capital waste. The group won assessments at the international level of swellings and economic stability and identified the key elements of the 2011 relief plan, including the renovation of the fallen banks. Analysis and proposals were submitted to the Ministry on Economic Affairs in March 2014. At the beginning of July 2014, the Ministry of Financial and Economic Affairs, who had agreed with a Minister and Board of Directors, to the Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP, the White Oak Advisory LLP and Anne Krueger, professor of economics at Johns Hopkins University and the former assistant director of the World Bank, to work with the Icelandic Government for disposal. At the same time, four executives were hired to cooperate with the above - mentioned advisors for the management committee. In January 2015, representatives from Iceland's Secret Bank entered the project group. The Agency worked closely with foreign advisers, Presidency and Economic and Economic Ministry agents and Iceland's Secret Bank on a comprehensive solution to all aspects of the budget crisis. This work had to do with both legal and economic factors and especially national conditions on emissions as well as the possibility of providing access. At that time, the construction team and foreign government counselors had dealings with various members, including those in the United States. International institutions and many stakeholders to draw up their ideas and views into their work. On the basis of this, the projection team submitted proposals for the release of workers to the Management Committee in December 2014. On December 4th, 2014, the Secret Bank of the Old Lands gave its banks a reserve for 400 billion dollars. to prioritize requirements. In addition, the Secret Bank granted a greater report for the future's survival of the Old Lands Bank. This waiver was added to approved terms on the terms of the debt change that was signed in spring, which includes prolongation of life time because the heavy burden of paying on the bank's debt to its predecessors created risks for the payment of the country. This was an important step that simplified the government to take in a complete, capital - disposal operation. On March 6, 2015, a change in Iceland'spannery banks was made in an effort to make further progress in the emissions of capital resources by reducing financial losses on the list. And now we see a complete approach to the emissions of capital resources using the currently existing source based on the proposals of the Agency group and the detailed analysis work together in consultation with government advisers, the Sea Bank and a number of members within and outside the administrative system. A respectable president. According to the newspaper report on Monday, forced contracts or stable taxes are expected to be due to reimbursement of the currency budget by some 680 billion dollars. ... ina treasureofthecreet. It's like the highest. Secretary of finance, Bjarni son of Benediktsson, has pointed out how to handle them in this prime cause, i.e. to use them to pay off the debt of state funds. This is key and very important. It is expected that each year's financial bill will review how debt can be paid off and that the bank will be able to assess the effects of money in circulation. At that time, a great deal of room will be made with the decrease in the debt of the state, for in parallel, interest rates become much lower. This space can run at tens of billions of dollars, which will be used to build wood on the land. However, these materials must be handled with caution and in accordance with the economic conditions and conditions of the earth at any given time. But it is absolutely essential to pay off debt and lower the financial burden of a government fund. Of course, it is only a reason to rejoice if the above means can be used to improve health and education, well - being, transportation, etc. but it must be done in accordance with responsible government policy. We independents must emphasize the scope that can be achieved by reducing customs, taxes, and other costs to the public and to the companies. Finally this. The public took on a tremendous blow in the fall of banks, and now it is toward the point that the fallen banks and their worn - out regimes must shoulder the main burdens of removing the oceans.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u142	A respectable president. It's a quiet over here, which is fine, considering what's been going on here in the last few days. V.E.G. The prime minister told us earlier that we should rejoice, this is a day of rejoicing. I agree with him in that although the reasons for us to rejoice may not be entirely the same source of hurt. I am happy because it seems at last that we are getting back together on the ban, which way to go, and in what way to approach it. We've been able to get along on these issues before, and I can give us an example of how we've been able to get together for a discussion. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur of Þór Þórðarson called for a special discussion in February 2013. Then, in the case of all members of Congress, it was stated that people were on the same page on the subject. Then, in every direction, when the election began to develop and the advance company decided to make this case suspicious and to do what the government then had to do in overcoming the swelling farms and leaving them and other measures regarding delinquency, suggesting that men were working on something that did not serve Icelandic interests. In other words, they decided to take this critical matter out of the political process of reconciliation, which is vital for our success, and put it in a course of conflict to try to add to our elections, and it succeeded them. I'm going to do more research in my speech. Since collapse, there have been times when governments have had to deal with them. I'm not going to be the one who says that there's some kind of easy job behind what's being returned to us in a new strategy for decommissioning the swelling workers, in the conclusion that we've reached, I know there's a lot of work here, and it's been hard work because I've been in the position of a government that had to deal with this. It was simply that at the front of the last term, we didn't know what the situation was, i.e. The magnitude of the problem was not available; there was no analysis of how much pressure the individual components of this case created, e.g. ... onthecreat. When it came to light on autumn days 2012, the scope, the nature, and the different types of money and possessions in it, when it all lay together, we, who were then in government, began working out the situation. We have often been on our necks for that, and men have been in political aggression and political plutonium decided to let the former government sit by not placing on bank tax on the swelling and letting the swollen ones hear about that tax. This, of course, is poopulism because it is absolutely clear that when the government was winning its last budget and preparing it, and so the income collection bill was first the anticoagulation of the swelling ready to become clear, it was not until then. People have been incredibly insignificant in this public talk and presentation and in other places, promoting only for political purposes. It is largely the senator's work, and most of it is his president. We knew, and we all who have observed the case that the opposition did not exist until the present government began, and it took them to the measures that an advanced government had also taken to put the swelling under taxation on the bank. Why am I doing this here? Yes, that's because now that we're reaching this conclusion and we're finally back on the same page, I think it's nice to make up certain things, and I think we should have a little permission and go over the seven-year period, how it's been, and what's happened because extraordinary amounts of the language of candidates have been completely wrong. He has been designed to mislead people, and men have been making false statements and have simply been wrong about what was done on the part of the last government and are sorry about it, and I like to get an opportunity to explain certain aspects of the case. It was quite clear that at that time, in the fall of 2012, we began to see all this mapping together, saw the scope, and how different types of funds in the weeds affected the payment problem, creating pressures on the crew of the kroner. Then, right away, the existing government went to that job, and I was financial and economic ministers and what. paritaprevir Steingrímur Sigfússon Sigfusson, and we resumed the work of the so - called management board on the elimination of the staff that was commonly met during this winter, winter 2012-2013, because it was clear that there was a need for action. What we did immediately, and I reported it in this speech chair as secretary of finance and economic discussions at the council, which was established as I told earlier. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur - god of Þór Þórðarson's son, was carefully considering what we were doing. What was normal at that time, when this information was available, and we had a clear picture of what it was that created pressures on the Crown's gang and created the payment problem, we had a clear picture of the combination of it, was sitting down and maping the posts and setting up certain scenarios, i.e. how to resolve such information and how to meet the situation that existed regarding the well - being. At that time, the Ten Commandments to the Sensitors were being submitted to because of their contributions, and the Saralaban made a clear stand for Christmas or at the end of 2012 not to give out rules as legal as to what could be done because it was decided that the government would have to come to these men and that they would need to map them together and try to do all of them best. It was also quite clear at the time that you would have to bring the Icelandic crowns down very much, for example. in the case of the bank manager of that time, it was in my case that was then the secretary of finance and economics, and it's a map in many places, it's in the media, it's in many places. They were told to bring them down 75% and the stage photos we worked on the Control Committee went down to zero, i.e. That they would leave everything behind and take nothing of the Icelandic assets, etc., it was done that way. Of course, we also had to face the fact that the years leading up to us were elections in this winter, and we realized that. So that's why we decided to have a good relationship with the existing anti-neighbourg president and I had a meeting with the chairman of the Independence Party, Bjarni son of Benediktsson, and Þór Saar, who was then a member of Congress who led the movement and the present Supreme Court. Prime Minister, Sigmundur Davíð, son of Gunnlaugsson. We had meetings, not all of them, but I had meetings with each of us, since we carefully reviewed these positions, with the objective of trying to create a solidarity on the subject, also because we clearly realized that we were not going to complete this matter before elections, and as the situation was then clear that we would be taking over a new government. That is why it seemed natural to us that I would inform them of the situation to ensure that this work could be started quickly and safely at that time because we know that each year of unsolved existence, society is enormously expensive and costly. A respectable president. What the candidates decided to do with this information and what they decided to do instead of continue in this conversation and agreed was to blow it up and engage in an election campaign with a weapon of somehow defending the interests of demands, and they were the only savior who was going to make room for the country. It was discussed earlier that the only group that had discussed the election's election on this so - called space that we would create would have been the forward party. Then I'd like to ask a party like what. paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir, who came here to ask me why. paritaprevir That's what Páll Árnason says, and I'd like to ask the highest. The prime minister, who repeatedly argued that only he had accepted the allowance. What then does he think, my comment, the saying of him? paritaprevir The Árni of Páll's annual son of Árnason, a statement made by the bank manager, that these Icelandic assets would have to be brought down quickly, included? They included the fact that there could be room there, i.e. if they could get them into the prices that would be taken in this way when these people went out of here. All of this was turned upside down, and men were simply trying to do what was being done at that time irrefutable. That is why this is a happy day because in these bills it is so that the government, after two years of work, has concluded that the way the government was working and groups at the World Council were agreed in the winter of 20123/42013 before the shooting of the forward party was the most effective way. It's confirmed in these primary sites. It took two years to unwind from the forward movement, and it took two years to make a PR plate so that Prime Minister could stand out of all of this. This is a fact, and I'm going to go over it here because in the July 13, 2013 conferences, we'll discuss it, and it says that these assets will have to be brought down. I say on February 13th, at the General Assembly that it will have to bring these assets back on well but I also say that as financial and economic ministers, I have a hard time mentioning some number in that context officially because it could have hurt our interests if there were any form of negotiations. In this discussion of the urgent agreements of the swellingrs of the fallen banks, the problem arose. paritaprevir Eygló Harðardóttir, now the highest. The Minister of Home and Social Affairs welcomed the emphasis given in the case of the highest degree. Minister to the importance of the work being done in harmony and solidarity at the council. Then, too, she said by permission of the president: ▪ In the opinion of our candidates, there are three effective ways to decommission the capital flounder. Simply put, it is first abdicating debt, secondly reimbursement and third, an increase in production. That's the point. This was the policy of the Annexe Party in February 2013 and was presented here in a talk at the General Assembly. This discussion also contributed to the problem. the local senator Tryggvi Þór Herbertsson, who had sat on a crosspolitic consultation committee for the release of capital school. He said that it is important to reject negotiations with demands on how to resolve this matter. And he also reported on February 13, 2013, that a good political solidarity had begun for a recent year or so, and he also confirmed that it was not until the autumn of the year when light was shed on the size and scope of the problem, i.e. the antiquation of the tax I went over earlier. At that time, fair people watched this issue as it was, but they did not make up some political circus to make a decision. We've been going through a solidarity and division in this case in recent years, and that's why I am so happy here at this conclusion. There was a rift in the case here in March 2012 when we decided to take the swelling under the water, we were broken down because that's when the Independence Party voted against it. He was opposed to the fact that the swollen ones would be taken under the head, and the advance company stayed because they did not trust in going to this expedition. But what has been discovered? It has been found that this decision and agreement at the Council of March 12, 2012, is the basis for the situation today, the basis for a man to accept the demands. How, then, are people allowed to stand here or anywhere else, claiming that the present government was somehow defending the demands, defending their interests? How can it be that when the largest single action in the history of the ocean was about taking the swellings under the seas, the swellings, the property of the owners, under capitalists, and thus getting full control of them so that they can guarantee national interests? That's what it was about. All the talk that the then government has somehow worked against national interests is abject in this context, and I think the so - called progressives who are still online in case they want to look it up should be ashamed of themselves. They could not even take part in this. When groups of demanding men showed up here and spoke against this arrangement, they slid on their bones and sat by to that decision. Therefore, there is no basis for this conversation, absolutely none. I'd like to mention one more thing to highlight the way the Specialist Party spoke in leading his last election and how far he went. I'm gonna kill down in an article by Þorsteinn Sæmundsson, who was then the candidate for the advance team and now is its member. In an article that he writes in the Morning newspaper entitled the false betrayal of the government, he says, by permission of the president: If news is scheduled, the government is now preparing a historical fraud to the public in Iceland. Now there is a cutting of a hedge fund that made the Icelandic bank abducted from the snare at the expense of the country's homes. If it is right to negotiate with the hedge fund during the last days of the season, then it is so uncooperative that it cannot be believed. He goes on to say: Then voters only have one answer. These unfortunate classes are coming down below 5%, so they are wiped out by a council in the coming election. These words were no small words, and these were so true of a man, especially in view of the fact that a few weeks earlier, I had been in my office with the Ministry of Economic Affairs director, described for him, and reviewed with him that we did not take care of these matters before elections. This was all the honesty, and it got us in our faces, so I'll think about it twice before having some confidential talk or conversation about something important with that fine minister. A respectable president. I was a little surprised at it because when men talk about it then they always talk like hell. paritaprevir It was Sæmundsson's stone. It's the faith of the candidates that this was the case. Then it is quite remarkable that they try to argue that this conclusion here is something other than the conclusion that the then ruling government had come to. Let me give you some examples. A report in the March 2013 business magazine directly shows that we are looking for a foreign expert to take on a new committee on the release of the sea. What did they do? A new committee was appointed by a foreign specialist. There are other things I have to say. V.E.G. A minister earlier said that the films that had been placed in the Ministry had to be pushed aside because they had somehow assumed that there would be losses on the bank. It is simply that all emphasis was placed on it, as if at this time the state was not a direct party and it was a private trade involving all the crown stocks that would move to the Secret Bank and, if necessary, to keep the Secret Bank's holding holding estates with pensions, etc. The key point was to ensure that tax balance and stability and that all Icelandic assets are removed from the stockrows and that, in time, the state, with its final offer from the farm, could be approved by their request on the basis of forced agreements. That's exactly what they're doing here, exactly. And if the move was to sell individual property directly to each other and then give the money to the state or, more quickly and speedly, to just hand it over to the property, and then to sell it as a top priority in this matter. This is similar to our conclusion, and when this government was taken up with a lot of information at the Federal Bank and the Ministry of Economic Affairs on these matters, we rejoice that men have come to this conclusion, and we can go back to rhythm. I'd like to mention that because there's a little talk about carrots and various tools and weapons that have been used by men in the battle against the demands, in the spring months of 2013, we worked with tools under the term "rottens" and "yellowroots" and, frankly, we used them quite strongly. The first whip, in effect, was provoked on March 12, 2012. Then, in December 2012, when the Councilman delayed the publication of the measures for expeditation of the swelling farms and then again in March 2013, when we decided to take out the sunset rules in the law on the seas so that we could show that we meant what we said, that we were going to go on this case with a great deal and defend Icelandic interests and go as far as possible. So now more than two years later, people have dusted the whip and brought it back in the form of this case here. It is in this good partnership, and I want to use this opportunity, as others have done to thank the administration and those who have worked hard at this for their work, seven years of hard work on these overexploitable issues that have led to this conclusion. It is important, though, that work is not nearly finished. There's only one part being completed here, and there's not going to be an automatic recovery of the seas, but a lot of work to be done. We as officers are willing to do it and cooperate with the government because we believe that the capitals are a very poor thing. They are unfair, they differing, and though they were tools we needed after a crash, it is now far from collapse, and it is important that we provide for them. I have to say, I don't think I'm going to go through the currency business if the government is now going to attack the emissions of capital syrup - using proben there's no way to defuse the oceans. V.E.G. The secretary of finance also announced that there would continue to be ideas in the Federal Bank for several years about the so - called national response, i.e. Preservation of funding transport, visualization of such precautions, but this does not change the need to look to the type of money policy to take after man has got rid of the oceans. Are we just going to continue on the same path, continue with an inflatable dollar used by Icelandic households and mediumsized companies while large companies and property workers can use other currency sources that work more effectively in international commerce? What are we going to do? I have to say just as it is, when it comes to the currency, the government feels quite careless or reckless. I believe that it is inevitable to discuss them when we come to make further adjustments in legislation in order to relieve the capital. It is interesting that in a paper with a bill on the stabilisation tax law, I want to take it down on page 6 of this magazine. 17, with President's permission: ▪ The measure of the problem resulting from the development of broken bones is unique, but the failure of three of the largest business banks combined is one of the biggest bankruptcys in history. This needs to be paid within the smallest economy of Europe. This problem, however, is relatively traditional, which consists of market failures involving a much broader group of negative external effects. As large a deal of sales per cent as it would remain in the wake of payment, the fallen banks would cause a drop in success, unless the Seabrick sells a foreign currency from a distance to a counterweight. The decline would weaken the privacy of homes and businesses, reduce their living space, reduce demand, and thereby reduce economic activities that are lost to lead to an even greater loss of business and property. The demands of the fallen financial companies remembered little of this negative effect, especially those who did not have possessions in the country after releasing their posts through the currency market. However, this business has negative effects on other non-employers, including those who do not have access to the trade. Home and general business. This harmful effect is evident on the market where the most important value of the Icelandic economy is determined, i.e. The crown's gang. A respectable president. Here the problem is summed up in a paper with a bill to set up a stable tax law. Are we really going to clear up capital without discussing whether we want to continue this situation, that the external negative effects can cause a market failure affecting a much wider population than the relevant partners, i.e. a home and an Icelandic company? It is reckless, and we cannot do this other than discuss the currency and the future. I'm finally going to say this: I'm still celebrating this conclusion. I believe she has returned to settle the matter. And I'm glad that the advance party took a dump in their position on the matter and is willing to take this way with the rest of us, to take this responsible course because I believe that in the bankruptcy route as high as possible. The prime minister spoke a lot of words that could have involved many dangers and extreme uncertainty that could have had a long - term harmful effect. In my opinion, this is a reasonable way that I think it might lead to a better view of a better time in Iceland and as long as money capital capitalists are released with the intention of looking also at the New York Gang, if it is even better, and will create an even better conclusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u143	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss two basics simultaneously, the stability taxes on the other hand, and the change in the law of a financial company that has to be involved, we can put it that way, for the possible agreements with broils, the part of the property that needs to be covered. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir for her speech before which I am now making an answer. But I'd like to, though, because for the first time I'm discussing this case in opposition, the government of Iceland wishes, to all of us. The Congress and the nation are happy with this huge economy and the published plan, and especially all the experts and advisers who came to bring the solution to our case and the plan for emissions. But when you talk. paritaprevir Katrín's Júlíusdóttir, who, of course, knows this process all together and was here during the last term and who struggled with various threats. I'm going to come and see that I'm not going to anybody, just to be told. A senator who is not concerned about the welfare and welfare of the public, and that is true of all of us runners. I'm gonna save some questions until I get back.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u144	A respectable president. I'm not sure that's the case with everybody, especially if you're on Facebook this hour because a few hours ago. paritaprevir Elsa Lára Arnardóttir. paritaprevir The Árni Páll Árnason, chairman of the United States, was defending the interests of the demanding men and speaking to them. It somehow put it this way, so men are still in it, and I'm not going to do it out of a bad mind. But I don't think they got the right information, and I hope I've made some impression on how it all worked out and what was going on there. It is painful if such big interest issues, such as the release of capital syrup, do not seem comfortable or at least confidential. But it has not done so in this matter. I'm sorry, and I believe it has hurt us over the past two years that we have not been able to continue our solidarity so that we could have done this much sooner. It's just like that, and it's been shown about the cost of having these capitalists, so I think we need at any distance from now on to try to learn from this case and be fair to one another and try to look to the future. It's not working, and it's not working if the members of the board are here to impress men on their websites about walking around here with some sort of demands in the world. But it's just a fact, unfortunately, and under it we've had to sit for a lot of years and we're not willing to do it much longer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u145	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir answered and her above - mentioned speech. Of course, she came on the subject all that time. Hv. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson is here in the hall. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir introduced his speech to the importance of locking up the fragments in March 2012. I couldn't hear any better than they've been happy with that phase, tops. Prime Minister and w. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson. A very important feature in the process and the possibility that we are in the position we are looking forward to with this current program. It has been shown in good debates today how difficult it has been to develop a practical analysis of the size of the problem, what the pressure really is, how to balance it, how to distinguish the nature of the bulge and then the overall scope of the continent and how to deal with it. Hv. A senator was in a talk earlier today about the council's activities, as well as discussing these tools and tools, calling clubs and carrots and whips. Of course, as I look at it, it's not meant to be, but there's gonna be some sort of space to be formed. We can't control 1,200 billion if we just look at it in the context of gross domestic product. But I can do it. A senator would agree that it was very important to analyze the scope, and it could have taken that time and even more so that it is a complex legal and economic solution, even though it is published in a simple way?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u146	A respectable president. I agree with that. It's enormously complex and extensive. Here are different types of money if you can put it that way inside these swellingers, which affect the Icelandic economy in a very different way. We've known the scope of this, and there were good analyses from the Federal Bank, which were published in Secret Bank, for example, in October 2012. I think we've had a pretty good picture of this since 2012/2013. So I don't think men had to do all those two and a half years to do this diagnostic work, but okay, it might also have been possible to discuss it with us, but not what it would be like to add the diagnostics that had been done before because I haven't seen them in the actual primary projections. But I buy it from a man who likes to go to the ground with care. But let us not forget that during the two years we have been waiting, the prime minister has spoken for a completely different way. He's been wanting to go a different route than he's called, and the result's on this bill. He has spoken of a so - called bankruptcy route that the government has now reached to the conclusion of not going. Rather, he has taken the course of contracts that had been protected in the years preceding, and the same agreements had been held here at the council. I'm happy, of course, and then I hope that the government is ready to resume the conversation about the route with us in the state of government because we want to do this faithfully, across all categories, because that's the only way we can reach the best conclusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u147	A respectable president. First, I want to celebrate, for this matter has come to pass and there is widespread harmony and harmony. Even if you can't quite see the end of this, I think it's a promise. I also feel that it is important to realize that all those who have been involved in this matter from the start are to be really thanked. When I talk about the beginning, it's from collapse, from the correct decision, the oceans set in motion, the masons being established by law in 2011. For all of these, there have been a number of experts, national and international. We had an AGS here on the military, national and foreign advisers, and not to mention the Icesave case, which, of course, took a lot of energy, of course, has been doing this job, of course the Secret Service, the Ministry and others. Then politicians have come to determine and shape policy and have contributed. Probably four financiers if I consider it a right to get Iceland back on his feet after a crash. [[Up front.]] Five if we count the Árni Mathiesenur, yes, that's right. In this discussion, I now feel that I accept what is well done. If we're in position today to be able to relieve the oceans, it's not because it was all wrong in 2009 and then all wise people came and took over the government of the country. It's been a process and it's taken a while, and I don't really think it's acceptable to talk as some people have done here, including Yeah. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson, who earlier noted in advance of the council's work, said with the permission of a president: "The current government has no demanding apps, as did Jóhanna and Steingrímur's board. They will best be remembered for the giving of banks and the embezzlement funds on individuals, families, and businesses. That's all there is to it. This has only been discussed today, when people suggest that politicians have been guided by some other interests and not just by the interests of Iceland. Now, whether people like it or not, it is the way the demands were. Would it have been better if everything had been on fire in judicial cases? It's also easy today to come and talk about the Icesave thing, as if it had only been possible to sort it out in the fall or winter of 2009, but the situation was now just that if Iceland hadn't tried to negotiate, we just wouldn't have received the loans we needed. I thought why. paritaprevir In his speech, J. Sigfússon's mask is fine. I often feel like a rich tendency to paint things simple colors, blacks, and whites, but the reality is usually much more complex than that. So I want to use this opportunity to commend the highest. A minister of finance I think has done well in this case. I have this feeling, maybe it's more than anything else that he's had to do with the other board, but this conclusion we have here is very good. I hope it's very good. I hope it works. There is one thing that makes you think. Of course, it will not be so that we will eliminate the seas. There'll be something free of them, you may be able to work on the issues of wearing outlets and maybe the leftovers, but I don't see a dollar just getting free, no matter what the foreign markets. I thought the movie in the News magazine this morning was very vivid, as the dollar runs out of the Secret Bank and is free and jumps into the ocean, where it sinks. I really think we need to discuss whether we're going to stay with the Icelandic crown and how we're going to do it. Probably not a liquid gang going the way it was 2001◯2009. This may not be a discussion we need to take here and now, but very soon. In the short future, we have proposed a judicial arrangement that is involved in the government's opposing policy in currency. But it seems to me that the government's view is that the amount of money has been good and that we keep it up. But it's not quite enough for me because my knowledge has failed my experiment with the Icelandic crown. If we're talking about improved quality of life and other things, we should look for ways to lower interest levels and ensure stability that is difficult for a dollar and an endless fluffy, where inflation has been in the past few years, not most due to economic expansion, but more because of changes in the quality of life. I think it's very important that this case gets the time it needs at the council. There is no need to delay this discussion, but the matter is expected to be called tomorrow or the other person, and it will take its own way in the system. I always find it interesting to see the reviews on the subject, so maybe there will be more to discuss. In itself, I have nothing to say about improving what has been going on today. I think it's a joy. Perhaps I would like to say that, unfortunately, I feel that instead of being an independent person, I have been more negative about what was being done during the last term. I think we should admit that men were working here under incredibly difficult circumstances. Of course, mistakes are made. But in the end, we've done amazingly well. I don't think anybody saw it coming when the crash occurred and Geir Haarde blessed Iceland that we'd be in the position we are today. At least I didn't see it coming. For example, I was quite sure that I couldn't afford to have a car, and I don't know what you didn't think at the time. It's done well, and I think we should give people what is well done. As a result, I want to commend governments for having done well in this matter. It could have been done sooner, I don't know anything about it, but now it's here, and it's fine.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u148	Madam President. I don't completely agree with it. When a senator said that he would have a hard time speaking, he let himself go. Usually, the senators on this matter would all have had some kind of attitude. Hv. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson has at least proved to be an exception. He then gave an earlier talk, a brief answer, in which he was extremely intense and concluded that, indeed, this government that is now doing a very good work, but he also gave two other governments who have been oppressed for good works. That's the way it's supposed to be. In fact, I'm like a dog. A senator for Willum Þór Thor Þórsson agrees as a speaker reasoned in his excellent speech that there have been many in this regard. The important thing is that everything seems to be successful. For example, I say for myself, as I think I said today, that reading this was a relief for me, that it was a solid solution, no illusions, it had been thought very much. Of course, the fear experienced when faced with such a difficult operation is that the consequences of such an attack may become heavy and may lead to home failure. I refer to the fact that I often said that men should not attack on these things unless it is very carefully considered whether to disable the index to prevent it, just as men thought at the time but didn't, but I feel that we should have. This was just what I wanted to say, come here to draw my viewpoints out and say that I am. A senator agreed that humans should rejoice over this, and he endeavors to direct it together to sea. I also wholeheartedly agree with what is happening. A senator, there is no reason to delay this sort of case in order to visit a committee where it will be examined in urchinism, because it is very complex, the text is very complex. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u149	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. You're right. A senator says that Willum Þór Þórsson is a very Painting senator and one of my favorite members so that this was not directly addressed to him and, of course, very many of the candidates have been very perturbed, but I find it boring that some have fallen into the pitfall of trying somehow to take it or what a man should call it "I can't see" that it's been a bit off, hard work, and struggle from a crash that's giving us results. Nothing started in the spring of 2013. As for the march, one hopes that the zebra's bank has made sure that if he had to buy a dollar, he could do it. I think a part of him is in debt, but the Navy has built up a good escape. But this is what we live in Iceland. We don't have much to do in order to see it break into inflation, and it doesn't have to be found in the economy. We have to find out.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u150	Madam President. Happily, the Armada has expanded into the market and has been as successful in buying and collecting currency as possible without putting aside the balance that in spite of everything. Of course, the late bank has also done a great job, taking action that may not be necessarily popular. I refer to a 50 - point - point growth raised by the late bat, and the bank manager also declared that it would need a miracle to keep that interest cycle on. This is of importance, not just because of what has been done at work, but because of the interest differences between countries in capitalizing about how much run will be in Icelandic crowns when the oceans are lifted. As growth increases are higher here, the more likely it is that the less crowns will look out or the will for stroke will be smaller, so I imagine that the Devil will be successful in this and he will not win any popular contests on it. But that is just one of the basics of the king's iron and their arraignment in this situation. Hv. A senator, whom I could mention earlier, agreed that this case had to come to a committee of the first. The suggestions may be simple, but that is the underlying point, that is the work that really matters. That's where it's at. Congress officials need to be convinced that knots are right because if there is some sort of conflict between us and the demands, it will be based on how to interpret them, and therefore it is the most important thing. [[The president calls.]] That is why this matter must first be applied to our professional specialists who are the most familiar members of the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u151	A respectable president. No doubt there is something else in this prime event that will become more evident during the discussion of the Committee. We have also been pointing to this, and many of us here have to be careful about the money that will be collected from a book in the Secret Bank. Though it sounds like both the highest. Secretary of the budget and the highest. Prime Ministers that they understand that money cannot be put into the economy, and it may be something that needs to be better stepped on to the Commission's work that it is absolutely clear that this money will not be used to finance the 2017 campaign.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u152	Madam President. I'm just gonna come into the discussion about the two basics that are underneath the stability taxes and a change in financial law. This has been an interesting debate today, and a number of things have been reported, and this has been over a certain story in this case, which has become quite long as it was last mentioned, one seven years since this plan began on the removal of a currency stand. I would also like to say that I have felt that the discussion on chapters is like nothing has happened except when the oceans were placed and then no more until this government began. Of course, it is not appropriate for members of Congress and council members to give bank and hedge funds in homes and families and businesses in this country, as has been done repeatedly during the council. I was just reviewing it when this incident occurred at noon this afternoon what the minister of finance and economics said when I was talking to him during an unsupervised question period of creditability and trust. With President's permission, I'm going to read up like one sentence at the highest level. Minister responded this way: The President of the United States. I don't know what the Senator is doing on this discussion, I just have to admit it. I'm hoping that the senator is not being pushed up here into the platform of major demands, which now declared Reuters' interview that we were falling behind as far as evolution was concerned. A senator described, and began to compare us to the states of southern Europe, which, of course, is a total confusion. As soon as you begin to make some comments or inquire about the most natural things, you are making comments in this way that I do not feel appropriate, whether then or now. But it's nice to go over the timeline and start when the currency capitals were placed on the ground in November 2008 after the collapse which was a direct result of the economic policy that had been on this nation for all too many years, and here goes the financial system, as in fact, elsewhere and we're going to be almost bankrupt. First, on October 10, 2008, the intervention of the United States Bank may be mentioned, but it may be the first time that Lehman Brothers apply for a payment stop to develop a global security system, as we remember, and at the same time the Icelandic financial companies are on the way down to 25 September 2008, they look to the government for support. We know the story and what it was like before the New Year's. But it is November 28th, 2008, where the head of currency is placed. It's interesting to recall it, and even though it was done, I'm going to do it again and I'm going to remember who it was. There was a night meeting at the council because of these disturbing events, and then these currency heads were set. Hv. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon went over exactly what happened, what kind of situation that was. We had to set aside priorities, such as having enough medicine and oil and other things that the nation may never have been able to expect to buy. Then, on April 1, 2009, the oceans are expanded. Well, that's why. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, then a minister of finance who recommends it, and he says about that, on permission of the president: The secret involves the addition of a new provisional law to the currency laws requiring the export of goods and services to be performed in a foreign currency. At the same time, a change in customs is proposed, which includes the fact that a export report should include commercial product registered in a foreign currency. It is suggested that the change will be temporary to November 30, 2010, which is the same period as Iceland's economic stability programme due to a loan application at the World Bank. This is a way of preventing exporters from getting over their pay fees. Just before March 31, 2009, the bill is approved at a final law. It was adopted by 31 voters, 21 senators did not vote, i.e. 11 Was Not Attending Theory of Independence. Of course, this has been considered only a matter of fact that they may now be able to build on the decisions taken did not vote with them, and as we have noted from this point on today's day, the fact that the house was locked up in the economy in March 2012 and that it was really essential that these taxes could be submitted and could now be taken into consideration. This is exactly what the importance of this and the then financial minister I quoted earlier has admitted that he did not even realize how amazingly important this matter was. Everyone knew it was important, but maybe we've all come to realize how much this meant later. It was also at the time that a parapolitic committee sent letters to preeminents that the capital heads would be untimely made. Then it was clear that we could not foresee when they would be removed from the position they were then. In August 2009, it can be said that the first plan for reimbursement is presented. Then, at the end of October, as a first step as abduction of a penitentiary is taken, and the Scrollman presents it with a long - term plan and says that it is reflected in the state's budgets, along with the budgeting of a large supply that would provide space for the stable gangs of the crown. The first reexamination of the International Cash Fund was carried out, so the Caribbean had access to an increase in currency reserves that we knew were needed. I'm going to finish reviewing the story. The transliterian committee that was working here, as we have considered, was certainly parapolitic, and she had something to say about it. She did work that was important but was not like the one who was initiated in the history of that government; it was, in fact, just like an official in which representatives of the clans had the opportunity to listen to specific information but did not really help the governments on a universal solution that has so far appeared to be the case. So in itself, these committees were very physical. I sat in the second to begin with, and I thought it would be quite useful, perhaps because a person had assumed that his involvement would be more meaningful. Then, in July 2014, it has been negotiated with advisers on work because of the release of a capital flotation device, such as labour. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir did well, part of what the previous government did, too. Although these things do not necessarily have to be valued in themselves, it is fine that the story is being held in place. As we've been through this, we put these heads together, so it's important that we get them off together too. I don't think it's going to get angry, because there's a lot of talk about future management since then, that the country doesn't think we're out of the woods now, and everything here can bloom from here on the morrow with a lot of money. It is very important that the cards be kept very well. I thought it was the highest. The minister of finance is very successful in his speech, and surely he hopes that there will be security and money will go very limited and will be used in subsidies rather than anything else, as the bill shows. However, you may wonder when we can talk about it, reasoning that the economy has started, when the collapse of the crash, and when the structure began. I think that building actually began right after the government change during the last term when people started to deal with the problems they faced. Of course, the financial accounts of the state's budget show this, and they do. ... wellin the state financial program that has been here for consideration and in the financial bill when films are drawn up in recent years that the land has been slowly and progressive, as is commonly said. All of this is a foundation for us to stand here today and to discuss this matter of great joy. So I think it's good that we keep all of this together. That, too, is well mentioned here on page 19. 12, 13 and 14. Therefore, it is quite remarkable when people have somehow not wanted to know that what was being done is based on what was previously being done, but the evidence here is very limited here in section 2.4 to prepare for the release of capital waste and to plan for emissions since 2009 that I was witnessing to and 2011 where the government is testifying to a new provision for emissions. It says that the following national conditions needed to be available for the release of diseases, with the permission of a president: First of all, national stability, financial stability, and sufficient currency reserve were guaranteed. Second, the rest of the business with foreign countries, the gangs of the crowns would not be under pressure lowering, along with inflation at their objective. Third, a government fund had to maintain a plan for the rest and its access to foreign loan markets. Fourth, financial support systems had to be controlled by emissions and banks had to have access to solid funding. In section 2.4.2 of the progress is reviewed, i.e. After a new government began. It's all very clear, more dignified President, on the stable tax bill. So, there is something special about men, some of whom, having trouble discussing it. Of course, there are various risk factors for emissions. Among other things, it refers to the balance problem. If the gang drops much, it can disturb both the merit and the stability of the financial system and then quote that if the Sentencing bank would use the escape to prevent gang effects, the government's debt would, of course, increase and then the Federal Bank would increase. So there are many things to think as I said and to be very careful. There's been a lot of talk here about stability conditions. They are attributed to a few sections in section on the need and objective of the tax and on point 3.2 - and it's a good thing to review in connection with the commitment of the Agency for the election of home debt - that the purpose of the taxes is not to earn money to cover expenses but to significantly reduce the risks of the old stocks, thus trusting economic stability. It was not said for elections, before elections it was said that this was the money that should be used for the debt of the homes. Of course, the way these matters are handled is responsible. Hence, it may not be irresponsible to say this in such a way, since it is assumed that some kind of government business will soon begin with subsidies that would reduce interest loads, however, was not presented in that way to elections. I think it's good for people to realize that in the event that this tax will be paid, i.e. for those who do not accept a contract, because it is also important to realize that the tax will be placed on those who do not have contracts. Already, the largest members have indicated that they are going to take advantage of the legal process, and it is very detailed on the Ministry's website for this. The funds will use the taxes as well as if they were charged to pay down the bond published for the Federal Bank, and this will probably also happen through the labour agreements so that there won't be a lot of extra money on the road. Then there will be one of the income that the government fund has set aside from the tax, as shown on page 20. 23 Since there can be no rule out a loss of money in traffic and financial resources during the agricultural period and tax payoffs, which will be over the second part of the year. How important it is, then, that people realize that these funds are not expected to enter the economy or anything else. Unfortunately, it has also been noted today that the government policy has been established and is expected to take both sides, although it is the policy of the Independence Party, which announces tax reductions immediately on this day of the case. Of course, this is not the right time to do so. At the same time, if space is created, it is obvious that not all the items we need can be carried out and that we often lower the taxes that bring more money to them than we can afford. I studied earlier today only in the work of the council that the trend has been deteriorating, the bread - crumbling theory, and has given excellent assessments of economists throughout the country, and a great and good study and natural research have proved this to be true of many such. So as soon as there are some taxes on the public, it is hardly possible to attack the infrastructure whether it is in health, education, or transportation. I'm sorry, it looks so hard in humans, and they're so full of joy that they're bordering on a certain carelessness to put out that kind of information. When you recall the story, especially about the way men spoke in the campaign, it can be traced to a very detailed conclusion. There are a lot of things that the leaders of this government say, e.g. told the prime minister in a sentence talk at the Assembly of the Agency at the beginning of February 2013, in which he discussed the assignment we have been considering, that it did not happen without an agreement with the demands. This is where both of them have been repeatedly asked how it was going, and if I come into this speech, the prime minister, with the permission of the president, he there said that he was opposed to getting his old banks out of the pacts. He said that most of the demands on the Icelandic banks were no longer owned by those who lost large sums of money to loan money to the Icelandic banks. They would have been bought from the hedge fund, which in most cases would have benefited immensely from it. In other words, he felt that they were endangering Icelandic economy and homes and businesses and that they wanted to handle this very strongly. We've heard of a failure route in that relationship. In his exposé at the Independence Party meeting, the minister of finance said that the bank could not be abolished without taking over the old banks. They would have to put up with it, the foreign demands that these requirements be written to provide a basis for the detriment of currency wastes. We also know the story, as I was reviewing earlier, about the domestic debt, payment, and election planning, and that was, of course, what was best returned to Prime Minister in the chair he sits today; it was primarily a word that was very much used, i.e. become vulture funds. We know what's in here that it's not them, not yet, who are paying for this election. We also remember that the government leaders kept saying that it should not take long, it would be quick, and in the next few days, people would take the first steps, etc. So once they're in government and face reality, they may realize that it's all the more important in the field and should be careful, and, fortunately, humans did. But even so, they spoke very quickly about the election, and it may be a bit reflected in denying what was done during the last term as if nothing was done or that people had some other motives, as at times here, and I now read an ancient example of this in which a minister of finance was having a conversation with me. A respectable president. Of course, there are some questions that arise when we discuss these matters, and I think they may be answered when the matter arises. It is, in effect, the stability process. The corneas that were shown in Harpa don't show up so deep, and I hope the Economic and Business Committee tries to dive a little bit into it, because this is one of the things we need to know and be absolutely clear. Many of the factors involved need to be absolutely bulletproof and to know what they are doing, whether in conditional debt or in loans, or in financial exchange agreements or what they are now. Similarly, the figure mentioned here is 400, 500 billion, one of these uncertainty factors. This is to be expected, but it needs to be developed and found out what is likely to be recovered and what is solid in the hand. To some extent, it is likely to be seen if these treaties will be adopted that have already appeared to us. I think the committee needs to ask a lot of serious questions so it'll be well built up and we're all on the same page. For example, you might wonder, " What state's demand is the most uncertain. ' Does the State or the ES give any demands because of its stability? Certain requirements given to the zebra are given on merits, calculated as being thus into the larger number given here, or due recovery, etc.? There are many questions I think the committee needs to answer. I hope that when we get to the 2nd. it will be even more subjugated. But I'm saying, like most people here have spoken, of course, you're happy because we've come this far, and we can start getting rid of the oceans, and just as much as the pension fund and other people are allowed to invest. But then you can also wonder: Who set the 10 billion to the pension fund on foreign investments? What is behind it? There may be a lack of logic somewhere, but there's no such thing as here, at least I haven't put my eyes into it. We need to take a close look, so when we take the matter to the 2nd. We have it very well built because we all want to do it well. This is important, and it is necessary for the career, including individuals, and especially the job, to thrive properly here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u153	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir Olensdóttir. She raised many questions and reviewed the timeline and the seven - year battles mentioned here in the discussion. We're discussing these two prime signals simultaneously, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the changing of the law of financial companies that will be easier to break up and try to find a contract. This can be seen as a result of these two primary signs of release or this schedule, i.e. frame of optional route which way to go. Of course, the underlying financial problem is when these plans have been put out of the way that is not negotiated and that is enormous. The total budget is 1,200 billion, of which 900 split - ups and estimated 300 billion in deportation. Because of what? A senator was discussing the time line, so I'm here last year, I'm going to walk in on her a little bit. If we look at those seven years, the disaster was a huge response and a full delivery was accomplished. Then, on March 12, 2012, when we closed down the scraps'property, it was a precious plan and a program to be shown here to include three governments. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] How do you view this timeline? A senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u154	Thank you. A senator resists. Yes, this timeline is just what we've been discussing. That's why, as I said in my speech, I think it's important to keep it together because it's not a case we should put ourselves on high horses and each one of us to try to own it, but it's important that we put these goats together and we take them off together. The big stage is certainly when the seas and the emergency laws were set in their time and then the date of March when we locked ourselves up in the economy by the conduct of the operation. As we have been discussing, even though most people did not really realize the importance of the operation, what makes it possible today to pay taxes and the like. I think we all agree on that. All I've said was that in this process, I was disappointed with this parapolitic committee, the second. I would have wanted her to have more access to the process than she's had. She was mostly accepting announcements, and she was announced certain things, but she did not like the former direct access to supporting governments and being a little involved in the process, more than has been. I would've wanted to see it happen. I think this is the one, like the one. A senator said that these years brought us here today. [[The president calls.]] That's fine.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u155	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. There's plenty to take. I have found the discussion here on these two basics and on the whole of this matter very good and beneficial all day, and many good talks have helped me to understand the subject. I feel that the discussion has been very calm. This, of course, is very important, considering that this is one of the biggest economics we have ever faced as a nation and lawgiver in our history, I will allow myself to say, if not for the time we marked the republic's history. All right. It is very important and, of course, political in a sense that some sort of competition is about achieving views that and everyone wants Lilja's standards when something good comes. Looking at these two bills and their programs, it indicates that when it is possible to present as complex a legal issue in a simple and clear manner, the work is gentle and good. I'm going to say the word. A senator that it is very important that we ask questions and consider the prime points at which it is due. The Economic and Business Committee. It's similar in nature. The stable tax is a fairly bulletproof bill, but the rest is a different legal factor. I'm sure we'll deal with that at the moment. The Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-10-126.u156	A respectable president. I agree that, of course, we're dealing with both views and methodologies, i.e. Different members of Congress. It is the natural and best thing to do that we have a different view of how best to handle things. As I described earlier, I don't think that I'm going to be able to think of any financial secretary's ideas on tax reductions. At this point, I don't think they're sensible. We saw this on the rise in steering growth this morning. In fact, there are reported peaks of steering growth back in August. It is assumed. It's the methodology and the point of view we're dealing with here. Then what? There's something like that. What, then, when we get started on the road that is involved in loosening the oceans? It is important for people to realize that we are here to begin a process of emissions, not to eliminate them tomorrow or the other, or when the committee has discussed the matter and that it has been approved at the council, it is not easy. It's complicated. This is not particularly fun listening to the public, but it is of utmost importance. That's why I think we need to be careful with the discussion. I agree that I've found the discussion here to be good. True, much has gone over the story, and everyone wants Lilly bounds, like the rest. A senator said. But I think the main thing is that we've seen it's a long, long process and all the people that this has, of course, come to appreciate because it's been a long, difficult process, but it's not. It is vital that we discern this. It's not really over, though these bills will be agreed on. [[The president calls.]]
