ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u1	A respectable president. Yesterday's inquiry class was the highest. Prime Minister asks about his view of premeditated research documents. Although his speech began well, saying that I needed to be careful about going to the ground, etc., the relationship ended in a way that upsets me. He said things like, with President's permission: This is not a reference to giving any open authority to monitor the citizens. No, it will always need a ruling until, in most cases, the government, the court, has a warrant for such observation. A respectable president. 99.31% of the police asked to wiretaps are approved. That means that in effect, when it comes to listening, the courts are not giving anything to the police. It is true to remind you that this figure was measured by 98% in Moldova, and it seems so high that the United Nations did not claim to contain it. Therefore, the Court's decision is not a legal protection for Iceland's citizens, either now or previously, under the same conditions for the premeditated authority. On paper, the rules about looking at people look good, i.e. A person may reject a search, but he may not pay on the road to arrest. As a result, the police simply threaten unfounded arrest if they are not allowed to search what they want. In short, police and courts are not even reliable with existing sources. To me, it is a responsibility to consult, not on the subject of increased sources under these circumstances, much less premeditated forms of research, but on the contrary, complete irresponsibility. I don't think it's appropriate for them to be discussed, neither premeditated sources nor additional police clearances above their heads, until the first fall when these serious problems have been solved. Only then has there been a foundation, not a second earlier, especially if the threat is strong and real. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u2	V.E.G. President. Yellow bus ride in the streets with black mustaches. The matums have begun. Every third man can expect to develop cancer at any time in his life, and the most common of male cancers are found in prostate, colon, and lung. Jón Gunnlaugur Jónasson, the head of cancer records and professor of pathology at the University of Iceland, has studied colon cancer for many years. In an interview in News Times before the weekend, he says that most studies suggest that large increases in colon cancer are attributed to Western diet, obesity, and immobilization. Jón wants to initiate a planned search for colon cancer and to include all the results of a central registry. The General Assembly agreed to a Synod resolution proposal for the initiation of bladder cancer screening, but it is also important to initiate the immediate screening of colorectal cancer. This screening has been shown to reduce mortality in males by 73% and in females by 82%. Studies show that the search for colon cancer is a pre-emptive intervention. These same methods are increasingly used by health authorities when deciding on the priorities of health care matters. Each year, nearly 1.5 billion have to be diagnosed and treated by more than 130 individuals diagnosed with colon cancer. Then there are countless costs due to loss of employment, less social production, and its consequences for society. The annual cost of screening in defined age groups here in Iceland has been estimated to be about 100 million. K. 1.5 billion to 100 billion. K., there's a hell of a difference. The health minister is now working on a schedule for cancer that will be presented for the next loss. I hope your colon and rectal cancer screening is part of that schedule. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u3	V.E.G. President. Reykjavíkurburg has introduced yesterday a very interesting test project that I believe we are here at the Council to keep an eye on. It deals with abbreviated work week without a pay cut. When I say that we are here at the Council of the United States, I am not speaking in the narrow context about us at the World Hall as the Workplace. Rather, it has much more to do with baptism, i.e. the social effects that shorter work time may have. The aim of the experiment project is to investigate the impact of shorter working hours on the well-being and working force of employees as well as the effects it may have on the job sites chosen for the experiment, both in terms of the quality of the service it provides as well as the practicality. Icelanders usually work a few hours longer than other northerns each week, and it is well - known that family living and long working hours do not work together, as it has been shown that work satisfaction and staff performance increase proportionally with shorter hours. As a result, shorter working hours can increase production and thus benefit all. In recent years much has been said about the shortening of the work week, but little has happened to them. It takes a lot of courage to try working less hours but to earn the same amount of money. Reykjavíkurborg now gives the courage to try to establish family life and ensure an increased equation and quality of life, and that's what I believe we here at the General Assembly should pay close attention and see if we can learn something from this experiment and even record our work here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u4	Mr. President. In these days, it was found that the government of the graffiti of Western society on the disabled issues of the West and the Fourth Western Union on their behalf has formally requested that the state be restored to the services of the disabled. Is the reason for lack of funding to handle the law - ordained services. The agreed budget of Based Compatibility in the Western Environment for 2015 expected 404 billion. K. on this project, but the equation fund evaluated the demand for a total of 286 million. K. This has been confirmed by the Minister of the Interior. Of course, this is a huge difference of 118 million. K. How do you bridge him? It is only natural to ask, and it belongs to the Ministry of Health. These difficulties in the West are not limited to that area but to similar concerns in other parts of the country. Now, a team of consultations is working in order to assess the cost of rural society according to the experience that has come on this project. I think it's very important that that that group be returned as soon as possible because I think it's very important that the project remains with the rural community. Of course, if the so-called SIS indicates that there is so much need for spending between areas, it needs to be reviewed. However, since 2011 the number of disabled persons has increased dramatically. This too must be taken into account. I think it's a common job of the state to find a flat surface on this case so that this good work will continue in the local environment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u5	Mr. President. The government's workmanagement was here a cause of last night's debate. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson's son. It's got to be said to be the highest. The prime minister did not react particularly well, thinking that the senator's language was strange, accused him of shouting here, though still hard. A senator was relatively quiet, but that was how I felt. Although he could not give an example of the initiative she would have presented, the prime minister and actually considered his government's accomplishments to be unaccustomed. True, I must confess that I am far more pleased with the failure of the government than I don't like it. It's simply because I think that many of the things she has planned to do are not necessarily for progress. Of course, the slightest concern is whether she was less than just one of her bills. The greatest concern is the unfortunate mixture of action and the inaction of the government, which has created, for example. in the community a very complex situation with regard to the possibility of achieving a collective agreement. Every man is confronted. Both sides of the work market are bitterly complaining about the fact that there are a number of aspects in the government's emphasis on getting together, adding that the government's pointies speak quite clearly, one in the east and the other west, when it comes to the promotion of collective labour agreements. It won't hide anyone. This is one example of many in which the government's pointers speak in a cross and are not a good place. To tell you the truth, a respectable president, I feel that there is very little discussion about the apparent degree of intervening between the labour market parties and the appearance of the dark in the fact that there is a bargain without a serious conflict and sacrifice. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u6	V.E.G. President. Today I'd like to turn a few Icelandic agriculture and farmers into my subject. Last Sunday, along with many others, I was at a magnificent assembly sentence. It made it clear that there is the mind of Icelandic farmers who are now conducting their assembly under the motto Opinion. For one reason that the Council is under these terms, with technological and worklike developments, there are fewer opportunities to take people out of the country as usual. As a result, the number of people who have insight into the daily activities of Icelandic farmers is reduced. Thus, farmers in many lands have opened their farms, received visitors, and taught them how to do the work and how to make food. The aim of the agricultural system all goes down to ensure the highest quality food for the people of the country that meets the highest animal resources. We should not compromise our requirements, and that is not the case. It is important for each nation to produce its food to the extent possible, and it shows that it is a general view in which only 10% of the world's agricultural production is transferred between countries. Now the Festival of Meals & Land has been over and is pleased to see Icelandic agricultural products in the main role, as well as the food market in the Wall during the past weekend showed diversity in production and production. There has been a history of Icelandic design and ingenuity, of speaking also of Icelandic agriculture, and of all its products in this context. The chairman of Iceland's Farm Association told of Day's project with a farmer in the formation of a farm council, and then I realized that, of course, I could take part and help. Dear colleagues. If you have a desire to study the daily work and working conditions of farmers, you are more than welcome to come home with me to Hawks, discuss matters, and share in daily activities.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u7	A respectable president. Last night's debates under unprepared queries were the highest. The prime minister asked about the matter of Congress that the government had put forward on its own initiative and on the Constitution or the government's work plan and could not give him one example of it. That is so true of him that he accuses why. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson, who asked the question about yelling here in a speech chair. This isn't the first time I ever had. A minister does this when he has some critical questions during the discussion. He's repeatedly accused himself of why. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar about how to scream and gawk here in the platform when he asks him critical questions. Now, of course, members of Congress decide for themselves how calm they are from a talk chair. As a matter of fact, I like it very much if people speak loudly and clearly so that they can be heard throughout the hall. But this can hardly be considered in the highest part of action. Prime Minister to be a minister class and to give people grades for public speaking when they ask critical questions about the work of the government. It must be necessary for humans to receive material answers to questions that are asked in a very polite way, that they may be mistaken, and that are not ousting such a thing. It is simply so that under these forces, people are expected to have some material answers to their questions and not to be in some kind of graded gift from the government's foremanship. It simply so happens that this government is extremely small. Of course, it's uncomfortable for the government to hear it, but it must simply take a step and do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u8	V.E.G. President. I come here to express concern over the status of pregnant women on the West, Iceland, but we are told that the midwife who has performed ultrasounds for pregnant women has left jobs, in fact, has not come west much lately because of the weather, so this service has been upset and will be over unseen times or for at least a year for a year and a half, because it takes a long time to train the midwives at the site to this project they want to take it. Mr. President. Service to pregnant women and food is a basic service. There have been many areas where food can be reduced for security reasons because there are simply not enough local people to be trained there in conjunction with childbirth. But with regard to the general services of feeding mothers, there is no problem with the presence of an ultrasound device at the site, while women are being sent flying between parts of the country for waste. I was going to state that I will ask a written agreement for a health minister regarding services to pregnant women in the country and at health care centres, what services are available, and how money may be spent if women have to go to the field service. I understand it's the way it is today that there's going on another quota, the strength to use this ultrasound, and it's naturally unacceptable. These matters need to be reviewed, because this is a basic security issue for the inhabitants of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u9	V.E.G. President. I'm here today at the council's work to call attention to a case involving the Commission's decision on business with financial companies. The work of this committee has been agreed on since the year 2000, which is more unfortunate for responsible people and mortgagers who have sought their rights against this committee. The websites of all financial companies refer to this committee. The paint's from five. K. up to 1530 you. A. K., it is relatively inexpensive to present a case further if you have a problem with your dealings with capital institutions. Now I'm going to make the United States a very brief explanation of what the situation really is. As we know, and as we have discussed at the Assembly Hall, there are a very large number of borrowing; parents, grandparents, friends, and relatives, who are borrowing bets e.g. In his property to a debt. Results to the decision - making committee can be filed. Since 2011 a number of cases have been won on that committee, but it is very special that the decision given by the Committee is not binding on the financial company. With the permission of the President, I'm gonna read up Article 12. has agreed on to the Commission for business on financial companies. It says: ▪ If the decision given by the Committee brings substantial expenses to the relevant financial company, or precedents, a financial enterprise is permitted within the period specified in the 2nd suit. 1st over, which is equal to Article 4. Four weeks, announcing to the board and to the relevant party that he would not accept the decision and that he would not repay unless the decision was made. This is a very special decision-making committee. I hope this will be changed here at the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u10	V.E.G. President. In the past few years, companies and institutions have moved from the politicians to form either societies or so - called ohf., public societies, just to reduce the influence of politicians and politicians on their affairs. But I think we need to ask ourselves some of the results of this and how it has been proved because recent reports we've had of the Bank on large assets without having an invitation, recent news we have of the pay raise of the Lands Bank, not just now, but some recent years, indicate that there is something that needs to be considered further. I can also mention recent reports of the salary of Iceland's executives, which seem to be very rife despite the plight of their company. Then I have to admit, Mr. President, that it actually took the stone out the other day when I read that Istavia, a well - run company, cost 16 million. K. of music at the club's annual festival. It's far from me now to regret the money that goes to Icelandic musicians, but I don't know what justifies the fact that a public interest company does this with money entrusted to them. Frankly, I doubt that this is in line with what is said about the management of these associates, which speaks of the need for careful control. I think the examples I traced above must encourage us, Mr. President, to have this group examined in particular.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u11	V.E.G. President. In response to the Minister of Justice asking what question. The senator of Hrafn Hynns Gunnarsson for e - mail shipments reports that it was not necessary to set specific procedures within the police to deliver evidence by e - mail. In view of Persian protection in the case of Tony Omos, it was noted that the chief of the Southnes had not used any encryptions to transmit personal information. It is clear, therefore, that in many areas a pot is broken in the administration, when personal information is handled and readily used in computerized form. President. There are ways to encrypt both attachments and the contents of e-mails, and this should be necessary for personal information to be sent between e-mails rather than by mail. In answer to the Minister of Justice, the president is allowed: The method used in such cases will not be tore up here with the information provided for security purposes. (For fully formatted text, see publication) This is where I have to make a comment because it's important to understand how code-making is done inside the police and other public institutions. It is essential that we find out who the encryption is so that the institution of encrypted e-mails can be sent and that agencies, such as the police, can communicate with one another and with the citizens of the country safely. So I suggest that the government meets a secure network policy by recording, for example, the Internet. one of the encryption methods based on transparency and experience.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u12	A respectable president. V.E.G. Agricultural minister Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson was not elected to 2030. Hence, when he negotiates up to 15 years of contracting agriculture, he raises certain questions about the minister's intentions. There is a reason to justify that the current government does not have a democratic authority to secure an unchanged agricultural politics until 15 years of age. All agreements in this area must be under the clear conditions that the budget is needed at any given time, because democratic elections need to be made every four years on the agricultural scale. In fact, subsidies have been too long in my opinion so far. They have been past one general election, and it can be said that in part the democracy was decommissioned. In fact, in order to produce democratic changes in that point, humans have had to win in two consecutive total elections. But when people are talking about customs protection in long-term contracts, there is concern because customs cannot be accepted in one council for many terms into the future. Even if they found a way to legalize, it is not in any way in harmony with our democratic tradition and the rich emphasis we have placed upon any given time at the General Assembly. A new proportion of things that new voters will vote for in the next election need to have free hands to make changes in the emphasis previously laid. That is why we have elections every four years, and all 15 years of contracts have to take into account.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u13	A respectable president. Every day we hear that in certain countries of Africa, girls and boys are robbed of their homes and schools. Hundreds of children are kidnapped and oppressed and used in brutal warfare by the fact that in Central and Middle Eastern Africa, there are hundreds of warriors. Boko Haram's forces in Nigeria have plundered hundreds of girls from school, raped and murdered them, and now, last reportedly, these young girls are also being used systematically for suicide attacks for the terrorist organization. They are sent to multiple places with bombs within their clothes and sacrificed to kill as many people as possible. Now it is time for girls to be suspicious of many places, and they have been murdered by a mob for fear of carrying bombs. As a result, the entire community has come to view girls and women as a threat and has been prevented from access to markets and other complex places. Similarly, hundreds of young boys were kidnapped in South Sudan two weeks ago. It is thought that they were used in warfare, but now they are up to 12 of you. children in the Unicef Civil War. Today, according to the newsletter, it is a frontal group of government officials who are said to have kidnapped the children, but the South Sudan government claims not to have participated in the robbery, rejecting all charges in this regard. A respectable president. This needs to be followed by a decision. It is clear that Nigerian authorities are totally powerless to protect girls in their country from the persecution of Boko Haram. We can't just sit here and close our eyes to the horrors. Our voice is important internationally, and it is our duty to take these matters up and live at every opportunity. I challenge the government to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u14	A respectable president. I'd like to make a subject of what isn't often discussed here in this chair, but preferably in TV tapes at the moment, which are the catch. Almost no matter where the country is, soil is from fish all over the country, mainly the preferred seed for spawning, but also small cod, if specifically searched. It is not newsworthy, though, when small boats doubled in the same day as on nets, lines, tugs, and large lines of lines lie in a country one to two days full - time and wait for landing, just as the hairy boats do. Fish per hook on the shore of the Southnes, at the bank, at the mattresses, and at the other end. The bottoms, the Jackets, the Flats, the Vikings, and the north, the Gulf, the Skull, the Skulls, and the east, the east, all the way they lay themselves, and the south of the Hornfield deep, and the bases, and the sides west side to the island, all full of fish. The number of fish found was at high cost for the fishing fleet to search for cod skins, and far too many ships were on the few fish. Therefore, the response was severe surgery and the delivery system was applied to the eating system. Now the problem is not to get too much at once, and the greatest time is to select the right species and the right sizes as the market calls. [[Up front.]] At the last measurement of the cod powder, however, fishermen questioned the lack of food for growing cod and the lack of weight for each individual. In the winter, a lot of hairy and bubbly spread around the land, so there must now be enough food for large cod stocks to eat. But what about the flare? Today, there is a great breakdown in the extort, and it might be concluded that the problem is like cod skin in ancient times, but sadly or, rather, the opposite is done, and the armada's greatest time begins to fade away. The axis is caught in areas that it was not seen in a few years ago, e.g. for Northland. Two years ago, it was enough to go below 90 bosoms, when we were free of the exaggeration. [[The president calls.]] Now there is the opportunity to use a technologically designed fishing road to make more valuable for land and nation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u15	V.E.G. President. There are a number of individuals who are struggling with financial institutions and other financing companies. Most of these cases have to do with success in loans and doubts about their legal rights, despite the same loans, with the same credit terms, being condemned to the federal court and to the Supreme Court. There are too many cases where financial institutions and financing companies ignore the fallen judgments, and in all respects it is unacceptable. Many of those who are in such a situation find it difficult to get their rights - both costly and complicated. There is always some group of individuals who do not attend because of these factors. A respectable president. By autumn, seven years have passed since the collapse, with all the disastrous consequences for individuals and homes in the country. Is it not time to contribute to various aspects that make it possible for individuals and homes of the land to be assured of their own concerns? If we try to look into solutions in such matters, it would be possible to review the conditions that are presented in the pursuit of them. For example, why not increase your income limits? Now it is true that a person must have no more than 2 billion. K. In the total annual pay for taxes, and married couples must have no more than 3 billion. K. in the total annual tax pay if they are to meet all the conditions required for filing. How could those who are unemployment workers or at the lowest wage in the country be overpriced for this process? This needs to be over-thinked. Therefore, it may be noted that during the season, an expiration period has been extended to cases involving reimbursement to determine whether or not to borrow. However, we need to continue, even think of new things that will make it easier for the people and the homes of the country to attend their rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u16	A respectable president. I was a member of the General and Education Committee. I was at a meeting of the Committee on Friday. I am very thoughtful after that meeting, and I miss not hearing the highest stand. A president for what happened there, since the committee was taken out of the bill to correct a change in the law on alcohol and tobacco. The cases thus made it possible for the chairman of the Committee to make such a move. I think it's the best. The president has to take his stand and guide us as to what is worthy of the council, and what is the role and function of the chairman of the Parliament's Committee on the matter. This is both a reprehensible method of work that is not built up by trust and solidarity, so I would like to pray to the highest degree. To discuss the situation that came up there in some way to guide us members of the Parliament to see if this method of action is acceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u17	A respectable president. It may also be reason to know what justification the Chairman of the Committee has on these unusual tactics. Of course, even now more prominent than it is to say, there are other cases of efforts from the Senate that have been made to make use of the arrival of replacements, including the U.S. to bring in a greater portion of 1980,1983, but they did not get the replacement into it because they have limited authority in such cases. I think that it is not written in the council rules, although it may be difficult to record it precisely, it must be a matter to all of us as to whether there may be extra meetings and cases on schedule at the last moment that take into account that some senator may be bound to duty or funeral or to other personal and necessary matters and therefore may not be able to attend committees and seat men okay and try to check a replacement. [[The president calls.]] Is it to be the working environment of the Parliament's committees in general? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u18	For the sake of the wishes directed to him, the president made sure that all laws and regulations were taken completely, both Congress and the activities of the committee. This was a meeting at the regular meeting time of the committee. [[Foreground on: No.]] It is clear that this meeting was being preached legally and on the part of the committee. So the president does not make a comment on the obligatory deduction of the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u19	Mr. President. A person may wish to be consulted by a president or after an incident in the presidency committee, but I think that those who have taken the matter to heart know better than they are exposed to it. They know very well that it is possible for qualified committees to handle matters. Guards who take the seat of the nobility are appointed members of the meetings they sit in, and it is well - known in the history that men who had to deviate from meeting considerately with their classes have called others in. How many examples could a person now mention that there has been a change when some committees have had to vote in order to adopt a committee opinion or to obtain financial support? The main point of the subject being addressed here is its subject, i.e. The question of whether to change the subject of the bill is subject to change. Why don't we just start talking about it instead of hanging out on how it got out of a committee?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u20	V.E.G. President. I want to talk about the same thing and point it to the top. The minister of finance says that this is not a matter of calling in the defences mentioned. This is about how it's done and how we're suddenly left behind a lot of work, where certain members of the council who have fought the case very strongly are not allowed to be on the committee's opinion because the case is taken out without their consent. We're talking about a case that was supported by two of the nine nobles. Just the opinion of the rest - there are five members of the committee. How are people going to book it? I've had two serious comments on the matter of Congress in general. There is no need for cost estimates in this matter. The Ministry of Economics does not pay costs on Congress matters, nor does the Council have the authority to do so. We're talking about a bill that's worth billions of costs, both for the alcohol and tobacco trade as well as for the whole community. Are we going to throw this issue through here with that sort of payment? That's critical. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u21	Mr. President. I regret the president's conclusion on the opinion of this payment, that it's legal, but it's immoral, I'd like to say. The following are some cases where members of the council dissidents are separated from committees in order to allow more of their classes to be hired. This is not the case. This was a good religion of senators when they realized that their absence was to be used to smuggle out the matter. For us who work here as senators, this is a question of what kind of culture we want at this workplace. There are many things going on here, there are things that are under control, and all the work is under way, but this sort of business with your own team, as in this case, is inconsistency. The president must reconsider his mind and position on this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u22	Mr. President. I'm gonna go out of respect for the highest. A president I admire more than most of the other men in these sales, not an opinion of what he said about this conduct. On the other hand, I'm going to have an opinion of what's at the top. This is what the minister of finance and the chairman of the Independence Party said. He flatly claimed that humans would be useful like this. So I strongly protest and tempt him to mention one example of this. It's anything but the highest. Minister said here, i.e. what happens when a backup may be sent out considerately to a strong greater part of its category in order to show the will of the greater part. That's not exactly what happened here. The point was that at a panel where 16 people are opposed to the bill, I believe, it was a sweet opportunity when it was possible to smuggle two replacements involved in the case. That's all she's got. It's not okay for the Speaker of Independence, my good boy, to come here and act like it's all right, let alone deception. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u23	Mr. President. It is of great interest to note that when this great interest in the Independence Party, the local concentration of fuel, it is the fastest. Secretary of finance up and keeps busy talking about the Senate hearings on the council committees. At that time, he will have an opinion of the issues involved in this special priority. The way this case has been worked, everything, it's a very unusual thing. This is the only Synod case, the only Parliamentary proposal that has been moved by one of 17, for example, in this panel. There was so much progress that a financial and business committee was supposed to make a decision in December in the middle of the tax business. This was followed by the Chairman of the Committee as if life depended on it. Then there are crafty devices and crafty devices to get the case out of the committee. It does not have an extenuating effect on confidential activities at a Senate Committee if they cannot be sure that they are not to be taken away from town, because they are likely to be able to produce more than that of the committee on the basis of fastings. That's what they did here. It is contrary to the practice that decent chairmans of the Parliament's Committees respect the members' wishes not to settle matters unless they are assured that everyone is present. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u24	Mr. President. We were faced with very bad practices at the moment. The pro board just a few minutes ago. Now it's going back to the General and Education Committee on this matter, looking for opportunities to get a case out when no nobles are present. I think it's something of the highest order. The president should really start recording, interrupting, and stopping this from happening. It's also surprising that this is such a top priority. There was a discussion here during the days to the highest degree. The prime minister could not mention one matter that the government would have presented. Is this a priority for anyone who is going to lie down to get it out of the committee by all means? The majority of the committee should recall the case, allowing the members of the leading members of the committee to consider what has come up with the cost analysis and what this means for government funds. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u25	V.E.G. President. Now I'm in the same position as most of the people here who have spoken, I don't have a seat. A global and educational committee, therefore, does not know exactly how things were done there. On the other hand, I must say that I feel the reaction to this matter in the chamber, in view of the fact that the matter goes far only if there is more to it at the council. What is to be determined on the outcome of the case at the General Assembly is not temporary or more permanent in individual committees, but the situation in this council hall. If there is more to this matter in this council, the matter will be established. If there's not more to it, it will stop at the next level. Are they the members of Parliament who react so harshly in this matter, perhaps thinking that their only chance to kill this matter is to be mentioned and not to be held in a council hall?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u26	Mr. President. I called attention to this in my first talk about this, that it is well - known for the presence of nobles, and in fact, they always come from the same category. This is true of those who are listening and who may not have understood the point. There always comes a replacement from the same category as someone who can't show up. [[Up front.]] Hv. Those who start the discussion are very well aware of this and are in the process of performing a great drama because they are unable to stand up for material discussions. Perhaps there is something related to the fact that these groups have been and are involved in this case, quite an amazing retreat. It's just that way. It's hard to have a discussion when they appear as clearly as they will do in this discussion, for these categories, but it's just gonna have to be that way, you have to put up with the conference in the conference room, unfortunately. It's kind of fun to have a good time. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson has come here and what? paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's stylist, also who negotiated this with them when they were having trouble with one matter not long ago that they should oust each of their fellow ministers from each tribe in order to facilitate the progress of the matter. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u27	A respectable president. V.E.G. The secretary of finance has come on a very strange step, I must say, in this discussion, but it's interesting that he burns so much into the case that he's willing to go in front of the element when men are serious enough to talk about being employed below all the caves. Why is that? Because this is such the priority of the Independence Party that it exists in an indirect way to restore the forwarding party. He calls the forward party repetitive, his company government, that's what he's doing. [[Foreground on: Unbelievable.]] There's more, he's an amazing retreat, the forward party. [[You guys are like that.]] Yeah, yeah, by itself, a respectable president, by itself. Let's just take all the senators' affairs and discuss them, but let's try to avoid the behavior of the Independence Party, which is so low at the height. There's a secretary of finance who's willing to defend this area. þm. Her Unnur daughter, Brá of Conspiracy, who stalks her own leading members of the committee, to put this great interest out of a committee that, as far as I know, is not a major part of the council Hall. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u28	V.E.G. President. V.E.G. The secretary of finance, like the members of the hall, is afraid to talk about the matter in a material way. Was it not a matter that was here in material 1st? for three or four days? It was a very long discussion. I think senators were very trusting in material discussions. He doesn't have to worry about anything else. Hv. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson of a year happily says that there is only a majority of the resources involved, so there is no need to use balanced, civilized methods in the work of members of the Parliament where it is a good practice for a chairman in consultation with other members of the committee to put a program and make an end of business rather than some overindulging. If the Independence Party is concerned that this matter of his heart cannot be addressed, he will have the authority to call the matter out of a committee if the majority of the committee do not want to handle it. This is the way independence should be used, not prudence, as it was here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u29	V.E.G. President. V.E.G. The minister of finance says that there is a need for material discussion. It is as if he missed the hours and actually the days taken in 1st. about this bill. Second, he speaks of reinstatement in certain categories. This case has not been run a great deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u30	I'll go over a list...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u31	This is not opposition to the United States or the forward party or the Bright Future. We have taken a critical stand on our own. They were senators who could not be at the meeting. Is it being used?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u32	Who replaced them?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u33	That was not the case with other candidates. [[Foreground on: Yes.]] Then people who have worked most on the case will avoid being given the opportunity to be on the committee's opinion. That's what we're talking about, killing a case on the Senate Committee. I'm going to pray to the highest. Secretary of finance to answer further: Will he recommend that the terms of Congress go out for or from a billion dollars without cost? [[Up front.]] Will he recommend a loss due to the alcohol and tobacco trade or to a social impact that has truly been calculated in other countries? [[The president calls.]] Is this to be thrown through without discussion? [[The president calls.]] I think it's an amazing thing of the highest. Secretary of finance. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u34	Mr. President. V.E.G. The secretary of finance is now improving and here has instruction for us that watchmen come in from the same political party as the leading man who fell into existence. These are fascinating and important information contained in this discussion. It's helpful to get to the top. The secretary of finance should be such a team member. [[Up front.]] The problem is that burning wine in the camp makes the blood move in the Independence Party, where the heart beats, and finally the party wakes up to life. It is time for the ideals itself, for the booze to spread throughout and everywhere. [[Up front.]] What was discussed here was simply the serious matter that it is in the power of the greater part of the committee to state when a matter is fully studied and when it is arranged for release. If more of the fasting committee, consisting of the leading men involved in the case, the conclusion is that not everyone must see what steps are gone if it is taken away by lipmen who have not really participated in work to resolve the matter in opposition to the real majority of the committee. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u35	Mr. President. This issue is also about trust, who are the nobles of the fixed committee, and what confidence exists between the chairman and the other members of the committee in this matter. When it was known that the members of the Committee were not ready to take the matter out, the chairman of the Committee sought an opportunity to take it out when the nobles had legal mistakes. That's how I feel about it. The other is that they plan to take up this controversial matter during the council, put it in first place, and subject it to the most precious time left until the end of the assembly in spring. Is this really what people are going to do to get through? What's a retreat? What's a hold-up? I think people should look at themselves in these matters and look to public health rather than to work for the T-shirts of the Independence Party. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u36	V.E.G. President. Here comes your final bill. Industrial Minister for the equations of the cost of electrical energy distribution, equation costs. Those are the wonderful promises, but I have said it before, a respectable president, and my attitude was shown on the 3rd. The case as well as the motion to change, that I think once again has the highest power. Industrial Minister chose the worst route just as was done with the present natural pass that is now dead and will make great changes. Unfortunately, the EEA does not agree to adapt the income welcomes in this regard and intend to stick to taxing on commercial electricity buyers in urban areas in order to subsidize rural areas. As I said before, it is a beautiful promise to balance energy costs, but the methodology of reaching these 950 million is a real problem. We in the smaller part suggested that half of the electricity tax should be removed at the next year's end will be taken into this equational operation, but unfortunately the top-of-the-line has made these recommendations. [[The president calls.]] That's why we're the members of the United States sitting by this vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u37	Mr. President. This is where we're paying votes for the cost of distribution of electrical energy. In any case, you should be crying out that this issue has come so far, but unfortunately, there are major problems where the problem just shifts. The rural areas are being dropped, but the problem is moving to the urban area in the country. Energy bills are rising largely because energy prices are high as in telecommunications. My proposal and my plan. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller was about to do this in another way, using the electricity tax that now owns big companies half to equalize the distribution of electricity and even the average house - to - house expenses. It would have been possible to walk all the way right away if big users were involved in this social action. She was cut down, and that's why I don't think we're going as far as we could have done. We could have done much better, and that's why we're going to have left green sitting next to this case, hoping that there's something we can do together. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u38	A respectable president. I come up here and say, " Hooray, at last, after a very long time, you've been struggling to admit that the resource we're creating from the electricity is the national share." Iceland is one country, and the cost of distribution should be equal everywhere, whether in urban or rural areas. [[Up front.]] Although people have gone out of it at some point, I am happy that here and now, as all the people sit at the same table, they are reaching the cost of distribution in the country. We live in one country and we're using this common resource, so I say, " Hooray, finally, finally. "
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u39	A respectable president. The objective is good, it's a good goal to balance the costs of electrical energy distribution, but the method selected here is off. It is such that urban companies are taxed to pay down to others. That's not true at all. Secretary of the sea says we're at even. The farm's paying more for the rurals, that's how it is. This is where the Independence Party, the category of jobs he's called himself, the increased tax on urban employment, and we're clear of that. [[Take it up to: new taxes.]] We are embarrassed by this payment because we do not agree with this methodology.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u40	A respectable president. It is a matter of great justice. The conclusion is that all the people of the country are sitting at the same table. I've heard a lot of people in the state of government give long and good talks about how much fair and justice this is. And I just don't believe that this isn't a vote for the council. Of course I'll say yes. I'm happy for this bill, and I'm glad it's come to a vote, and I'm really proud to be involved at the Council to level electricity costs all over the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u41	Mr. President. I'm celebrating the phase we're getting today. So I especially welcome this correction to become a reality. We can say that there has been a misapprehension, but today it is being corrected and improved. It's about that we're raising... Yes, unfortunately, and I'm sympathetic to those who receive 150 bucks. an increase in a month in the urban area, but I rejoice with the rural population of 900 bucks. decrease in the number of months. [[Up front.]] I'm particularly happy that we're finishing this case on this day when the DMV is over that it's one of the warmest battles between rural and urban areas for many years, leveling the cost of distribution between rural and urban areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u42	V.E.G. President. I share the joy of those here celebrating. It's a huge deal of justice we're doing here. This is a step in the right direction, it's the first step we're taking, and certainly it can be difficult for those whose account goes by about 150 bucks. a month, but I'm happy with the others whose account falls by a much higher amount.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u43	V.E.G. President. It is a big deal of justice and conflict that equalizes the cost of electricity and the equation of domestic heating costs in the country. But how it was managed to resolve the differences, as we have seen, where men put three times the amount of common users in order to protect the big effort to participate in the project is incomprehensible to me. We could have taken the whole step at once if we had walked in the way of ideas and suggestions from a parapolitic committee that offered suggestions on how to level land house - to - house expenses. That's what we're saying with our votes by sitting by, that we lose the opportunity to take a much larger step in a much easier way for the homes of the country than here is the choice to step. That's what this is about. We agree on the target of house warming costs and distribution costs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u44	President. I described my position on this bill at 1st. and could not see the need to extend the council by repeating my views to the 2nd. Maybe I should have. Together, my opposition to the bill is based on the fact that I feel that the new framework I know will replace other laws is too out of control. It is an arrangement that I generally love, especially in cultures. So I will vote against the bill, as I did with its payment of the 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u45	A respectable president. On this occasion, I'd like to be especially happy that we're handing over a bill on a product that's been in progress for a long time. It has previously been suggested at the council without complete payment. I'd like to use this opportunity to thank all those who have participated in the discussion and came to work on a universal and educational committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u46	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct a law of law No. 161/2002, about a financial firm. The bill is part of an overall review of financial and economic legislation and is prepared by a Committee appointed to review national legislation on the basis of new international financial markets and new EU regulations for the European Economic Area. In the Committee, representatives from the SEC, the Federal Republic of Iceland, and financial firms were serving as representatives. The objective of the bill is to add Icelandic financial market legislation and is to take the first step in ensuring that national legislation is in accordance with national legislation and in accordance with the international Basel III standard and a new CRD IV banking system in the European Union. The Base has some new and more strict rules about the financial capital and the rules that should strengthen both internal and external financial management. The main objective of the principle is to improve financial development to meet losses in business without official or financial and financial support, thus ensuring financial stability. In addition, the European Union CRD IV Regulation is a comprehensive review of financial management and monitoring of them in the European Economic Area. This is the most significant financial revision ever conducted in the European Union. A new program is aimed at dealing with the problems that have characterized the European and international financial markets over the past few years by amending earlier regulations in the same field. The bill is based on a bill submitted to the General Assembly for the last legislation and was on the roof. 883, 522th Council case. However, a few adjustments have been made, and new arrangements have been added. The main changes and indicators proposed in the bill are: 1st Changes to the work permit and risk monitoring systems are provided including those that may result in revocation of the Marketing Authorisation. 2. Changes in the rules of active holdings and financial policy and variable remuneration of employees. 3. The rules for high-risk commitments have been changed and a new amount of money is prescribed. 4. The bill contains permission for Ministers to adopt Regulation No. 575/2013 in Icelandic rights from the European Union as well as the permission for Ministers and Economic Affairs to implement technical projects and technical monitoring standards of the European Commission as well as the changes to the legal framework consistent with the above changes. The assets suggested by the bill are four, and they have a different function. Possessions are a national eco-efficiency tool designed to reduce the system risk and support financial stability. In recent years, such devices have had an increase in international importance as a result of financial difficulties. The financial institutions are expected to use special financial resources to improve their own financial standings and thus to be better equipped to deal with the traumas of their business or to face fluctuations in the economy. A higher financial share will increase the impact on business management. One of the assets is sustained, which means that financial companies should maintain it at any time with an increase in their financial resources, while the other three include sources that must be allowed to handle certain risks that either exist or are developing in the financial system. The perks which are stuck and sustained are the protection boost, but it will stipulate the ongoing obligation of financial companies to maintain an extra budget of 2.5% of the financial stakes of an enterprise. If financial companies violate this obligation, the financial resources of a business to pay interest to shareholders, the payment of variable employment documents to employees, and other outlets will be limited. The protection service is aimed at promoting the management and management of a financial firm to more of the valuables produced by society's businesses. This also works as an increasing security valve for the financial capital of the enterprise. Other self-finances, which include permission for their application during periods of stress, include eco-efficiency, system risk-authority allowance, and financial financial support. If financial companies violate the obligation to maintain their financial savings, financial funds will be limited in a similar way to protection. In addition, the serious violation of the financial enterprise against the obligation to maintain financial support due to the system risk could lead to detriment if other measures are considered inadequate. The fluctuation equation includes the authority to provide additional financial support for financial enterprises if an increase in the financial risk in the entire financial system is observed. This amount of money may come up to 2.5% of the risk of financial assets and, exceptionally, should be considered for a quarterly basis. The decision to employ the fluctuation balance will take into account the value of the loan swing, the risk of overexploitation of loans and economic and economic characteristics of the region. The main goal of the extra is to strengthen the financial status of a financial company when there is evidence of loaning. At the same time, if used with sufficient foreview, it is possible to reduce the availability of loans and, in turn, a flash of loans. In the event of a financial recession, a decline in the demand for financial support can work against it. System-risk funds are aimed at meeting other financial risks than those that depend on the economy. Such risks may involve many things other than direct loaning risks that the fluctuation lift is designed to meet. The size of the financial system relative to national production and compression within the financial system includes factors that can cause built-in system risk and is an autoimpliment for the system risk intended to prevent or minimise the long-term effects of this risk on the financial system. The source can be used against certain financial or financial companies on the market because of risks considered to be a financial market or the real economy. The four self-finances laid down in this bill are a financial bonus for a systematicly important financial enterprise. Business companies can be considered particularly important because of their nature or size to the entire financial system. If such financial companies are affected, the consequences may be severe for other members of the system or for the public. The management board can ask that these companies have financial contributions for their financial importance and can study up to 2% of the financial capitals of a business enterprise. It should be noted that the largest financial corporations in the country today are very strong, and using the source is not expected to change their financial standing where the wealthy already have enough money to meet the increasing demands. A respectable president. The bill also contains changes in the laws that apply to work policy policy and the variable remuneration of financial companies. The changes are based on new European rules, but they are stated in Directive 2013/36/EU adopted by this bill. In the processing of the bill, financial and economic experts have considered comparable rules in other countries, i.e. in Denmark, Norway, and Sweden, but the countries changed their rules last year at the introduction of CRD IV regulations to their national rights. The largest change in the bill of labour policy regulations and the variable economic costs is the change in the set-of-the-art standard of staff rules for the maximum percentages of changing employers than in the bill it is expected that the maximum percentage will apply only to the employees of a financial enterprise that will significantly affect the financial risk profile of the enterprise. However, present - day regulations take care of all employees of financial companies, both public and management, from whether or not the employer has any decision on the part of the company to make or care for its high-risk investments on behalf of the company. According to a new rule, the principles of the principle now apply only to management, key workers, personnel monitoring units and other employees who enjoy comparable overall work cards and management and key personnel, whose management measures are referred to by the executives, assistant managers and other executives of a financial enterprise that hear directly under the Commission or by financial management cases. The range of values is the same in other parts of the North countries, and there is no specific evidence that there is something else to apply to that subject in Iceland. It is then suggested that the rule of postponing 40% of the variable remuneration for an employee for at least three years should be suspended to ensure that the employee is concerned with the long-term interest in the financial company. In accordance with current regulations and regulations in this country for job policy and financial products, the ratio of variable employment documents of fixed staff remuneration should not exceed 25%. All states of the Northern countries indicate that the proportion may be 100% of fixed remuneration and in the national rights of the Member States is a source for the stockholders' meeting of a financial enterprise to increase the proportion by decision of the stockholders meeting to 200%. The bill suggests that the proportion will be unchanged, 25%, as has been established by the Commission's regulations up to this day. In the bill of a change in the financial law that I submitted to the General Assembly a year ago but was not completed, there was a suggestion that the rate of fixed annual purchases would be 25% and a shareholder's meeting allowed to increase the share ratio to 100%. The bill now assumes in this respect that less changes in these materials are expected than previously suggested, including taking into account the discussion on these matters of the council. However, I believe that there is good reason for the Economic and Business Committee to take this point for a special consideration and that during this bill's therapy the views are still being expressed and against changing this proportion, either in the law itself or with possible authority to shareholders' meetings, to bring these proportions by special analysis. In this regard it is true that the Committee responsible for the bill showed the view that a low percentage of changing job documents is a burden to the financial market because a larger proportion of jobs will be included in the form of fixed remuneration that will not take into account the success of the employee in the job or company. The rules thus work best with smaller companies, but they are more used for business fluctuations and therefore are more suitable for extending less contracts to employees and higher variable remunerations. In this way, both the company and the responsible employee take less than they can get when there is less money in business. On the other hand, large financial companies are better equipped to deal with business fluctuations. Thus, the level of variable worksheets that are too low is worse for my financial companies to compete for. It has been noted that very strict Icelandic rules can reduce the competitiveness of Icelandic financial companies. These are the views presented in the committee of members of this bill, and I draw attention to these views so that they will continue to be involved in further political treatments. The bill then contains further implementations on variable re-elections, postponing regulations, the percentage of their payments in stocks, or the same types of bacteria as the revocation rules and their reimbursement rules, in case financial resources get worse. All of these take on the undesirable motivations that were found on the arrangements for the payment of variable employment documents to employees of financial companies prior to the collapse. The current rules absolutely prohibit the payment of variable job documents for monitoring units, while other countries allow such payments with specific guidelines. The bill suggests that the same value in this country, but the FEC should set rules on the basis of the laws that contain the rules for the payment of changing job documents for monitoring and that the rules will take into account the Norwegian rules. The European Directive 2013/36 recommends that in the Member State's national rights there should be a warrant for a financial enterprise to cancel, in whole or in part, a delay of variable remuneration if the company's position has progressed significantly or if its position is looked worse, and if it is necessary to build its own financial status. It should also be authorized to reexamine an employee when paying variable remuneration if it turns out that he was a participants or responsible for a conduct that caused significant damage to the financial company or significantly failed his duties. Similarly, an employee has failed to comply with the laws, regulations, governance or internal rules of the financial enterprise. Such rules can strengthen the response of the companies and the public to financial problems if part of the overall work programme varies with the ones I have discussed. So the bill assumes that such rules must be found in the law. A respectable president. Many changes made in the law using the bill are to strengthen and increase the risk management issues of financial companies. The European Directive 2013/36 gives increased responsibilities on financial companies so they have control of effective risk management and can adequately assess the risks of a financial enterprise and provide the company's management with an overview of the actual risks and adequate help to understand the risks. The directive also places increased responsibilities on the management and management of the company as a whole that they can understand the risk in financial activities and make decisions on the basis of the risk of the company's activities. These changes include increasing power and independence of risk management within enterprises and by ensuring the access to decision-making of further access to financial management, risk management staff should take an active part in the modeling of risk policy and have access to higher risk management decisions. Along with these changes, the management of a financial enterprise is suggested to agree to risk policy, risk wish and to conduct the risk management of the relevant financial company. In addition, financial companies are suggested to operate a special Risk Committee, which includes the role of providing counseling and monitoring for the management of the company. It suggests that nine new laws are added to the laws that define key risk factors for financial management and that monitoring is required by the implementation of financial companies. Changes are made in the laws for financial management and aims to improve the requirements for effective management. In addition, changes in the provision of the management and management work programme are proposed. Change of 29. a The law on loans to the management board, managers, key personnel and owners of the active holding parts and linked parties. This is a special rule set out after the collapse of the bank. Although some criticism has been shown on the rule, it can be very limited to smaller financial companies and other businesses working in a financial market without obvious financial or economic benefits. The further additions to the directive include the continuation of the terms of the arm length to be used by the clients of active property parts, executives, managers and key employees when doing business with financial companies. The bill presents two changes to the sources of UNEP to keep an ongoing surveillance on the appropriate owners of an active holding part and the managers of a financial enterprise and the authority to take action if an unqualified person has a financial stock in a financial company or if the manager is responsible for any reason for the lack of administrative positions within it or in a financial market. The bill also provides permission for Ministers to adopt in Icelandic legislation Regulation No. 575/2013, of the precautionary requirements for the activities of loans and investment companies called CRR. The European Union's implementation of CRD IV Regulation involves not only Directive 2013/36 but also Regulation 575/2013. Both types are an integral part of the same rulework, and they refer to each other in many places. However, the regulations of the Regulation which give the European Commission the authority or the access to decision-making in this country will not be adopted in Icelandic rights by the bill or regulations intended for the minister to set up. In October 2014, a political agreement was reached between the secretary of the European Economic Area on how to implement the regulations in the EEA Treaty to include the Constitution of Iceland and Norway. The technical implementation of the agreement is being accomplished. The agreed regulations will be adopted in the EEA Convention this year followed by Directive 2013/36 and Regulation No. Set up 575/2013 on the EEA Convention. The aim is to provide a second bill for the next legislator meeting which contains the regulations of the CRD IV Regulation which will not be legalized by this bill and will be set up as a policy for the whole law of law in this country at the beginning of 2016. Although these types have not yet been recorded in the EEA agreement, this bill shows that the government's wishes for Icelandic law and regulations in this field reflect the rules that apply to Iceland's neighboring countries at any time. At the same time, the Icelandic government wants financial market legislation to be in full harmony with the minimum requirements set out in the inner market. At the same time, there is the chance of developing greater trust in the Icelandic financial market. A respectable president. Finally, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee, after the end of this discussion and then through 2nd. At the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u47	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for a very careful bill and a good report in this speech. I have a few questions that I wanted to address. Minister. It's in the first place whether it's 18. g., in discussing the persistent food and appropriate owners of the active part, the possibility of making room for virtual companies to set up a so-called sham to have active objects; as could be going on right now, where owners of the new bank are linked to owners who are probably not eligible, since they are not financially suitable, with healthy companies. I also wanted to wonder if a so - called loan firm was allowed as soon as they were wondering about it with the battery. I've got two more questions I'll be back to.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u48	Madam President. Regarding possession, it is a major factor in the principle of translucency as to how it really is. I think it's the way it works at the F.A. that it is not enough for people to bring some shell that should be appreciated for the proper use but that it needs to go further and identify who are the real owners of the law. However, the directive is to deal with a problem in existing legislation and is indicated by the fact that this assessment is done only at a specific time when the person acquires the item or wishes to become an active possession. It is important that this situation can be monitored by the SEC.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u49	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. A minister for this answer and has another question about the bonus system. I'm asking if there's a chance of separating big and small enterprises in this, since it's mainly the operations of big financial companies, and the largest ones that can have great consequences, i.e. if you take a high risk there and if you are encouraged to take a risk. First, I asked, "Is this simply a way to separate between large and small enterprises and to make more demands for larger enterprises than smaller demands for smaller ones and also whether it is properly understood that there is no requirement for, for example, that, for example, a businessman or a cashier cannot have up to 100% of his salary in the form of a bonus, under the new law 100% of the stress on a fixed salary? '
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u50	Madam President. There was also a question about the small loan companies. This was not particularly considered, but for the bonus systems, this is the case: We have only rules in this subject regarding financial enterprises in Iceland. Otherwise, there is no law against a company in Iceland that affects the buyer's case. Since today, we have a valid order, which is the worst problem in the northern world. Some would say, " It's just fine. ' This in itself does not change, but it is the set of values that we are changing. Thus these strict rules will apply only to key workers. But it is noteworthy, for example, when we look at the public document that here we are suggesting that the 25% of the rule is the one to still hold, and it may be added up to 25% of the annual remunerations with variable remunerations. But then, from public figures, we see that the remuneration from one financial company to another is such that it is perhaps three times in one company above that of another.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u51	Mr. President. I'd love to go to the highest. A minister explained to me and to the Congress what his real policy is and what is called a variable remuneration, while normal people call a proposal. It was not clear whether he was, in effect, expressing his opposition to his own bill in this regard. He was like that, I thought, " I'd try to get the Senate to make it a bit. ' If the highest. A minister could explain his position a little better. The other thing, I'd like to say that this is the most excellent bill, but in many ways, I think it's available in the ropes. This is very important for the continuation and development of our economy. I'd like to take an example of a Risk Management Committee, which is I think, 29th or 30th. In large financial companies, one person outside the company is not expected to come to the Risk Management Board, but, for example, there may be two members from the board. The management board decides how to work according to the way it can maximise the company's profits. But these same directors are also supposed to be on the Risk Committee to try to put it out of danger for the company. [[The president calls.]] I don't think it's a moral hazard. I don't think it's a good idea. What does the good man say? Secretary of finance on this?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u52	Madam President. I refuse that the case is available in the ropes. This is on the basis of all the regular work being implemented into the European Economic Area but we have taken the factors under the institutions and have them wait for the agreement that has been established in the European Economic Area on the basis of the two-part system. Other than that, we are taking up the main focus of the changes that are taking place in the European Economic Area for financial enterprises. In terms of the labour policy, I feel that it is important that there is not such a bitter thing here at the council that the changes that affect your privacy, wait, or land somehow at the council. There's no heat issue to me how we make those changes. But I think it's right for me to take that cup from the FDA and bring it into law. I think it's better if it's in the law. Here we set up a 25% rule, but I'm rolling it up here with the council -- I don't think it's important, but I'm probably thinking that we'll talk about it, I'm a little open about it -- whether we're going to allow stockholders meeting to raise that ratio, that shareholders of the club, can decide to aim for a higher percentage. And even if it was 100%, it would be a fraction of what we saw in the shops before a crash.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u53	V.E.G. President. I have the highest respect for the highest. Minister. I have to say exactly as it is, when he talks like that, I feel a little chill. I believe the petitioning system was part of what almost took us to hell in the collapse. I don't doubt it, either, when it's the highest. The minister says it's all in accordance with the order from outside. It may well be, but I could give more examples because I was in the collapse, I was in the government then, so I take these cases seriously, and I've read this bill. I've been sitting here 25 years. I'm not an economist. I don't have any degrees in it, but I have a lot of other things. It's a little hard to understand this bill. It's used words, tops. For example, a minister used words that are not clear in explanations, nor is there any explanation, such as a "flavouring equation, " such as a ravishing rex, to be used in terms that are not clear to any explanation. Why isn't this more clear on the bill? I could, for example, in addition to this with the Risk Management Board, which I believe is a moral hazard, discuss the article on how to limit loans to employees, managers or owners of active property. I think that wording is pretty loose. There are hells to be avoided because they burned us at the time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u54	Madam President. I can quite agree with that. A senator said that there are a number of situations to guard against from what happened here before the collapse. These factors, variable remuneration or end-of-the-arts systems, are being proposed by the most strict European rules. You can find no more strict rules than that. We have a fraction of a warrant to carry a bonus compared to the North countries. It has a general rule that puts 100% on the payroll for bonuses. Here's a record of 25%, which says 1⁄4 of what it is, and it's also not suggested here that the stockholder's meeting can raise this roof, but it's suggested that men be able to go to 200%. We agree on that, me and what. A senator, that it is necessary to be extremely careful when we backsupply financial resources to build their job policy in purchase boxes. Of this, I think it's a nice common understanding. The question, though, is, exactly where to draw the boundaries and what to allow the stockholders to decide, although the standards are established in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u55	Madam President. I think we're later in this discussion to leave it to us to discuss the ideologies of ourselves with proposals and bonuses and what on the other hand is that in this one profession men cannot do their jobs for a fixed salary and have to have some carrots, some proposals. But I will enter it in my speech. I want to go to the highest. Minister after that, because the Minister has now been appointed by the bill to obtain authorization to implement Regulation No. 575/2013, on the precautions, standards, etc. but keep the hot potato for the position of the overnational institutions and their authority rights on this land and share in decisions that are effective here on the land. If it was only six months or a year, what work is involved in replacing it? When he arrives, would it not be wise to take that package at a time? Second of all, I'd like to go to the highest. A minister after that, because it has value here, where is the work in preparation for new financial and financial barrier legislation to find any further separation of business banks and investment banks?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u56	Madam President. What was asked last, about the separation, there are no decisions. There are advantages and defects, and countries have acted differently, but these rules are associated with other rules, e.g. About the management of active property, and I'm not talking about how owners can do business with their own financial companies. It can be wondered when we should take this step. I've based on the thought that there's nothing to do about starting this new act, that there's nothing in itself to wait even if it's not on us. This will be an enormous change, it will appear in this legal bill, and more will be involved in the introduction to the changing EU regulations. My point is, we don't need to start taking these steps and start thinking about it, and even if we're done with this case, there's plenty left.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u57	Madam President. Well, that's a pretty good argument, but it's so extensive that, in some respects, it's tempting to divide it, I admit it. It's just enough dolls like this, and it's not even close to all that the Minister informs and says on the bill. On the other hand, is it a little bit of a piece of stock inside the current financial law, and you're obviously going to wonder; doesn't it really have to bring up a new total bill to review and new laws about financial companies? They are becoming quite shredded and stopped, and a substantial amount of temporary rules and so forth, so there is also a view in this subject whether only one total bill of the whole package would be a more orderly procedure. All I want to do is enter the secretary of finance after the first thing at the beginning of the discussion, and that's his attitude on how much Iceland is taking advantage of its personal funds, I'm particularly thinking of my personal funds for a more systematic business, as our three big banks must be able to count. [[The president calls.]] They are highly financed today. Is it not tempting to take full advantage of their sources?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u58	Madam President. This may be especially the point of the automortem that I feel is a recommendation for us to move this bill into this council and test whether more things can arise from making this change, the chapter-change of the job. We're going to cut off the capital master and we can't live in the current financial system now, i.e. The two large banks are in an unacceptable holding. The program must be solved, along with the other things we've been doing, planning and other changes, we'll work with our own funds to increase financial stability in our country. It is the ultimate goal of all of this, to add to the financial stability of the country. I agree with what. A senator, I think it's quite valid evidence, and I suggested that in my case earlier, even if we were to use the security aid for a system plan, it would not be so burdensome for financial companies that they had to add their own money, but they would have the space, but the other side of that coin is that, as we put more money on the budget, it will be more difficult for them to achieve their own fruitage. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u59	President. As we have seen, this is a big, important case. I'll be happy to admit that I've been reading through it and I'd like to ask a simple question because we're on the other hand talking about the directive, which is no. 36, reminds me, and on Regulation No. 575. As we know, the nature of the directives and regulations is that the directive is basically a formula for how things are done, within the limits to which to do this and within the limits to which to do the rest, but the Regulation is regulations and must be translated word-right. Just so you can read it better, it's right from me that all we need to do is think about the 42nd Regulation. where, by President's permission, shall the Regulation be submitted by the secretary and that in the rest of the chapters all are being referred to a decree? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u60	Madam President. Yes, it will not require legal adjustment to introduce the Regulation so that it can be introduced without the introduction of this law, but this is the way in which the Minister's permission is immediately established, and it may give the council a basis for discussing the Regulation or its contents, but neither is there for the induction that we are burning at any time or so. The bill is based on us knowing that this is what's going into the EEA deal. It's taken more time for the founding industry and the constitutions to find a way to let it happen in terms of financial and banking, but the issues are in place. Now we're suggesting that the rules of the matter be made by law, even though they're not already part of the EEA Convention.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u61	A respectable president. On page 18. 33 of this chapter says, by permission of the president: In the same way as Directive 2013/36/EU, the European Commission wants financial legislation to be at all times in line with the minimal requirements set out by the European Union on internal markets. It is clear from the anti-regional responses mentioned in the minister's speech that we have a much more strict demand for the buyer or the remuneration, much more strict. This is not, therefore, the European Union's minimum requirements but much more strict requirements. So I would like to ask: Do we in more places make more strict demands than EU minimum requirements without any specific mention? Sometimes it has been said that we had done so better in the past.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u62	Madam President. I believe, however, that there are quite a wide range of scopes in this order to produce in different ways. For example, the obvious example of making strict demands is that we do more than the necessary things according to the rules of the book. There are, however, some strict demands in the current rules, and they are only acting here, as I did in my introduction. In general it could be referred to the protection services, how they are introduced, which would include rules that are much more consistent with the introduction of individual Member States, i.e. It aims to make such an effort far more consistent than for unique exports, such as loans to government officials. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u63	A respectable president. I'd like to discuss this bill, which has a lot to do with interest and content. There has long been a waiting period for what has been called CRD IV, a worldwide program designed to cope with the consequences of financial crisis on a global scale. As mentioned earlier in the case of the highest degree. In some ways, Ministers call these rules for the application of the international patroller to be forced through financial initiatives in the countries in which the rules take place, and it has proved to be a real headache for us to make this part of the Regulation work work out of the Republic's constitution. It is an aspect that we still have to discuss and will enter this council in the fall, with its peak. Minister says. It is very important that we immediately make a defense that we will review it at the council whether or not the application is the highest. A minister has agreed on international matters, in the opinion of the council, to the separation of power from the Constitution that power will not be exonerated. I have expressed doubts about this, and it is important to make sure of this in the autumn of our arrival. This is not to say that in Iceland's Constitution there is a general authority to hide national authorities over Icelandic or Icelandic companies. It was believed that the EEA Convention at its time was absolutely on the limit of what the Constitution allowed in that subject. A direct decision to the international monitoring organisations of national organisations in the national market is, of course, different from that of the policy-relevant authority considered to be in agreement with the Constitution when the EEA Convention went into effect 1994. First, I'd like to say that the bill is a big deal in growth, and it's useful, and it involves a wide range of ways to reduce the risk in the financial system, facilitate financial management, and reduce the risk of underdeveloped financial companies ill equipped to cope with traumatic events being active on the market. That is a special reason to call attention to the words of 30 C.E. The bill. It discusses a wide range of personal allowances set out in six new articles entitled page 84. a to F. Will now be a half-priced and uncool, after these very things have been hatched in this way into the text and will emphasize the importance of an overall review of financial enterprises as soon as possible, although I can completely agree with the highest standards. A minister that there is reason not to put these principles before the Council and put in Icelandic law. What brings us special attention and is important to mention is the law to be said to be 84 Secrets. c in financial firms law, a warrant for the SEC to state that prior to the proposal of financial status, a systematicly important financial enterprise maintains its own financial resources. The financial status strategies board should define what is systematically important to financial companies and the source to postal funds is 2%. I believe it is important to review it immediately in the management of the Committee whether there are no chemical logics to establish some general policy ahead of this issue. We will always be involved in this discussion as well as with our internal insurance system and because of the increased risk we are in because about 90% of the financial market is in the hands of three banks. As a result, three banks are systematically important or can have a systematic impact. Therefore, the evidence in itself is that there is nothing to wait for this framework and this framework until the law has been given and every reason to have this conversation with the Ministry of the Committee as to how it will be done. There's been some discussions about the remuneration. It's not a long time you have here at 1st. The point is to review the material and may have been a reason for having a double talk so that you could look into individual aspects. However, variable remunerations, such as buyers, are here very much, and that is the bottom line. Ministers at bill input to change current protocols in order that the maximum target of 25% currently applicable to all financial organisations will only apply to their distinct group, i.e. Head management, key personnel, personnel monitoring units and other employees enjoying comparable overall worksheets and management and key personnel. It's not easily wrapped out of the bill's text, but it's my favorite. I just want to review how the current law limits the cost of a bonus system as a result of a legal adjustment made in 2010 to cope with the collapse. Then it is that the 25% criteria are valid for all employees, who say the ratio of variable employment standards of standard employment should not exceed 25%, all of which state whether or not the employee has something to decide on the company to do or not. That applies to big and small financial companies, both banks and, of course, insurance companies. These rules also completely prohibit the payment of variable job documents for staff monitoring units within the banking system. The changes presented here are therefore very extensive. First of all, any restrictions on all the majority of financial companies are removed. On the one hand, it is typically possible to pay a variable level of employment to the Rapporteur within the big banks. And I must advertise for the chemical reasons that eliminate the order set in 2010 that those who are involved in monitoring within the banks must not have any remuneration, no bonuses should be paid. In the review of this, it kind of makes the whole thing sick. It speaks of what is right, that these are burdensome rules for smaller financial companies. You have heard examples of insurance companies, and of course you must think, " Why do the rules have to apply to them in the same way? ' Can they not be on a percentage, rather steady purchase, and so on by the way they sell insurance? It is possible that a valid chemical argument does not result in systematic risks, and they cannot be diligent in selling insurance would bring some system risk to the nation. That's a good point. But it is mixed in the cover, at the bottom of the page. 28 from the top to the top of the page. 30, on other viewpoints, on the competitiveness of financial companies with other financial companies in foreign countries, etc. I ask men to be careful about starting off with the policy that there is a special reason to improve the general employment rate in the Icelandic banking system, which is totally free of any international competition now and that has led to the pay drive among larger companies over recent losses, to all of us a lot of trouble and a discussion of affairs in the country. I would like to wonder if we shouldn't say that less financial companies, e.g. especially the insurance companies, should be more experienced in using proposals rather than going along the way to eliminate all restrictions in this information as anticipated here, saying: All employees may receive unorthodox bonuses except management, key workers, personnel monitoring units and other employees who enjoy comparable overall work papers and management and key personnel. They're tied to the 25% target. I think it's pretty far gone. Even if the bank does not make major decisions about how it works, the bank's cow may have become such that people want a risky attitude, and why it is given that it is not bound to those in the front, salesmen, cashiers, advisers? If the people in the front line provide advice, if the servants are on the counter, how will it affect the supply of services and advice provided? Why should we attach boundaries to buying only those who are at the top of the song making decisions about the high-risk commitments? True, many others may be able to influence consumers, and they do well to reflect on consumer protection views. It's not just to protect the State from danger, it's not just to defend itself against a new bank crash. It is also to protect against the incompetent risks of banks and their delinquency toward ordinary people. I just want to hit that varmint. I don't see the logic in the first place that employees of surveillance units within this large bank ever get a bonus. Besides, I don't see a new reason to take off all the employees of all financial companies the inhibition of about 25% and leave them alone at 25% peaks in management and to be key employees. Just one more thing because I see that I was a little more busy talking than I had been afraid of, and I have time to move a little bit toward the changes that are being made on the 19th floor. Acting on finance companies, 7th paragraph. This is shown in comments on 7th paragraph. that it is being authorized to fill in the 2010 Act to establish regulations as to what constitutes normal and sound business practices. I would prefer to conclude that I had found it normal to take advantage of the opportunity now to support that authority, to expand it. We have tried many times to exploit it in recent years, first when we struck down the swellings of fallen financial companies under the supervision of the FDA - Drowning and all the terrible evil - and intended for the SEC on the basis of Article 19. monitoring their procedures. It turned out to be very difficult, very difficult. Twenty-niner. to be a real tool to control and control what is called on the English language ◯preverdative behaviour, or market robbery, and I think there is every reason to develop and win it over and plan it, for example. To be the article that could damage small loan companies and others on irresponsible loans or irresponsible financial operations without perhaps fulfilling the legal terms of finance in another way. I would have chosen to use this opportunity to open this article and the law to strengthen the regulations of Article 19. the law on financial enterprises, still increasing the resources of the UN to monitor non-supervised sources on the basis of a good business venture and to be rich, as well as to respect financial markets by a good businessman.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u64	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech on the larger matter of the council is presented here, regarding this great fire. Now, with this particular matter of Congress, this is based on factors that have not yet been implemented in the EEA Convention. I'd like to let me ask you what. A senator as an expert in European rights, because that's what we're talking about here, isn't it? What a wind likes it. A senator is on such a approach that we are actually taking up in Icelandic legislation factors that have not yet received the passage required by the EEA Convention, as this is truly a legal step in some way? In other words, it may be likely that something below is done that we would put it in the Icelandic just as normal. But as for the agreement with the EEA and the exact bill presented here, I'd like to ask why. Senator: How does he feel about such a approach, i.e. of what is involved in the bill, how it should be done, about the lead and the underlying work, before the decision is made to contribute it in this way as a government bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u65	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. The answer, of course, is simple. In general, I think it is possible to say that it is not a good idea to introduce European directives until they have been properly introduced into the EEA Convention, i.e. if you mean something by saying that we should have some effect on the induction programme, because it is, in some respects, left behind when the decision of the joint EEA committee has not been made and the commitment has become nationalized for Iceland. There is also the danger that when this approach is begun, there is also the possibility that there is a silent consent to the issue. Therefore, in my speech earlier, I made it clear that although I agree with many aspects of the matter and thought that much of it would improve, it would still be completely unclear to me whether the extent to which it has been selected. Secretary of finance in cooperation with other financial ministers for the surveillance of the international institutions is in line with the Iceland Constitution. I have serious doubts about it, and I can make valid reasons for it, and I look forward to making it from this chair in a very long way. Therefore, it is of utmost importance that we do not make the shoes we have agreed on and that we have all been caught up here, the council has not yet agreed to that arrangement, and is not obliged to agree with it. However, the highest must be said. Of course, a secretary of finance to decompose that the General Assembly is overreached and can bring into law any nonsense or whatever genius it is according to what will be pleasing to the Council itself. As a result, the General of the Council can, of course, accept European rules just as American or Australian rules or rules from any other Farbarist country if it chooses to, but it has no national significance as long as it has not been accepted in the contract.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u66	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. The challenges we face were crystals in response to what happened. A senator and, in fact, the political position of power is even more severe than shown in the answer, i.e. that the European Commission has not discussed the matter, but it is still being suggested that this is taken into Icelandic correctly without specifically being discussed at the scene of the council, as is usually true of such types. Here at the council, it has just been written that the council is coming to an earlier stage when comments and the arrival of the council are still open. But this is not the route, nor is it really the financial minister himself who makes the approach his own. That gives me a lot of thought, and I think that's why. The head of the Economic and Business Committee must have opinions on exactly these factors as he has in many respects a very personal European policy, especially the EEA contract and its situation. But I'd like to follow through on this after what. A senator asks: "Consiste with this particular matter, the suggestion and presentation at the highest level. Secretary of finance, the European Policy of the Government - sometimes because you are a little confused about what course is really on top of this government - i.e. The course submitted by the highest. Minister of Foreign Affairs and included a much more advanced approach to the EEA Convention, more intensive access to material factors before the introduction of individual projects in Icelandic law?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u67	A respectable president. The answer to that question is very simple: No, this is not compatible with that European policy. But to be tolerated by the government, I must say that nothing else it has done during the past year is in harmony with the European policy it presented. For example, she said that there was to be an added force in the EEA interest fairing. We have seen that any financial proposals in favor of the Council of Missions in Brussels have not been approved. We have seen that nothing is done to increase the possibility of the Council to cover interest in the European Parliament's field, and so on. So, I think, just to put it on some realistic estimate, only the weak fig leaves that were spread over the perfect nakedness of the Government in international affairs after it was introduced with the European language in an upset attempt to drag back the party application a year ago and after that the real policy of foreignism that it was formed in a loving embrace with Pútín and other strange distant empires had come into complete dissipation for a year ago, as men remember. What you would have expected from a government who believes you want to follow a Greek European policy is that people were extremely careful about the interest defense in this case, made very rich demands, especially on the administrative factor, and made it part of the strategy. And when the administrative aspect was sure to be okay, the rules for living would be first used on the administrative factors. Here is a set of rules, and we will face as a Congress that the government will have, in effect, sold away its rights of firstborn in terms of the need to comply with these rules. The only question is how vastly power will be given to the international institutions and what hideouts will be created to hide the fact that international institutions will make decisions rather than Icelandic institutions. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u68	Madam President. I want to start by giving the highest. An unscrupulous promise on my part that I'm not going to make it my habit to come here and answer my own party. However, there was a reason. paritaprevir Páll Árnason's years with remarkable speculations, which protected the variable requisition and touched the very essence of my questions to the highest degree. Secretary of finance earlier today. I get it. A senator corrects when I say that he is in effect suggesting a) that it will be permitted to use potentially higher and more variable remunerations, read: proposals, within smaller financial companies, which can be defined as not having a systematic risk, such as e.g. vandalism, to take it as an example, and b) is he suggesting that, outside of the fact that employees who are involved in a financial religious organization are not to be held out for a variable remuneration or offers? So, then, is he also suggesting that in addition to them, key directors will be excluded, possibly rulers too? At any rate, it is worth one Mass to consider how to prevent what played a major role in the fall of banks, this cow's safety hazard. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the Economic and Business Committee: is this what he means?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u69	A respectable president. Yeah, I'll take the question to something. A senator is asking what I would like to see in this. It's clear that we're opening up all financial companies and all insurance companies, and the only exception from that is that the administration alone can make 25 percent of the proposals. Today, all employees of all financial companies and insurance insurance companies are bound by 25% of requests. I'd like to check, because I find a total of this time heavy from the Ministry of finance, people would like to get rid of these proposals, and I'm a little sensitive to the criticism that has been shown this system from companies that are not systematically important, such as the insurance companies, for example, if we could take care of it, we could do it right by saying, okay, that some of the capital companies can use it, but for example, The three large banks, which are systematicly important, reflect a very large shadow of the Icelandic financial survival in terms of loss risk and, of course, are institutions that could lead to serious trauma to the nation as a whole, that there were other rules, and would be limited distances. For example, I make a distinction as to whether a candidate is in line with one of the three major banks, who is selling them some products and therefore, if he is a candidate, would like to sell the most risky things, although the manager does not make money on them, and then the insurance servers, who may be less likely in a position to create a risk for society, although they can, of course, cause his company to go to the head or such things, would seldom increase the greater risk for society.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u70	Madam President. I feel that this attitude is important in the discussion. I agree with the highest. The secretary of finance who said today that it would be worth anything to complete this bill, among other things, in order to establish the possibilities of self-finishment, but the rest is quite certain that there will be a difference in the terms of the remunerations, i.e. The beneficiaries. We saw exactly what it was like here last year. The discussion has all been that way. It may well be possible to follow such a path in the beginning of a matter as a reason. A senator is suggesting, possibly at ease, and then, in the light of my experience, as I shot here at the highest. Secretary of finance earlier, when this system has been in force for 30 years and nothing has happened, reexamines it. I think these are important ideas.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u71	A respectable president. This was a little discussed in the Economic and Business Committee last year, in connection with another bill as the highest level. A minister offered those who could not be resolved, and I believe that there is good reason to consider this very carefully on the committee. I'm not promising support for one or another making changes, but I can quite see the evidence that the current rules of 25% for all employees of financial companies, small and large, may be unpleasantly strict. Then I think we should just start watching where we could expand, but I don't feel that people are going very far in that subject without further reflection with the much room they can find in the bill, where it's actually just said that there's even money -- why can you pay 25 percent of the requests inside the bank? I don't see a physical argument that they don't have fixed purchases, and on the contrary, it's very important that they don't have a bonus and they don't make money at the company's expense, just exactly, that it's just a simple thing in the current law. Before this rule begins to be taken off, and it looks to the Norse models, acting like we're actually in a competitive market with three far too large banks, like a top bank. The secretary of finance this morning, if I recall correctly, that the banks had become too large, and that we had no access to international financial markets, we should not begin by creating a policy of employment based on the illusion that we are creating some completely different financial system. Let us continue to develop the work policy in accordance with the needs of the Icelandic community and then take into account what happens elsewhere, but mainly the decisions we consider to be normal and acceptable to Icelandic interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u72	Madam President. It is hoped that there will be any discussion about this matter. That's quite a fire. Here is a bill on 45 legal cases, and on 24 pages it is about very important things that deal with the rules and safety of the financial system. All of this is in the light of newly acquired and expensive human experience with this system, not just in Iceland, but in most of the world. There are inexpensive texts, e.g. Here in the article for interested people to read, where Witnesses can be called self - criticism or confession. True, the European Union's anonymous experts are brought up by the authors of the report, but they make several confessions about how this system broke down. Here, as well as in the history debate of ministers and answers, the first steps have been taken, taking part of this new European Union's work in the financial market, which is once again based on the international work taught the place Basel, Switzerland, Basel III, on its own budgets, and on the risk limits, etc. ... financialexploitors. It has already been shown that this is an introduction to much of this rule before it has been recorded in the EEA rights. This is unusual, and it may especially be, since it is well known why such induction has been delayed. It is because of the administrative problems that result from the fact that European surveillance agencies are expected to receive national power quite conclusively and can make decisions about legislators that affect lawgivers in individual countries. It's or will be totally new in Iceland, despite all the stretches on the board of directorships known since 1994, when it was thought that the Constitution might be cremated to put the EEA deal in there itself. Since then, Schengen, there have been additions to international authority in air surveillance and many of these things, and this has come to the box. But it's up to a whole new road meet. It is believed that there have been a way of working on two key EEA solutions, and thus may continue to stretch only on the framework, but I will see how this is going to happen so that it would appear to be going up to European institutions, European institutions being granted national authority in Iceland and can make decisions that will directly affect lawmakers. We are not just talking about the state as such or government legislation or public rights, willy or positive, no, we're talking about decisions that could be negative, which could have a direct negative impact on business activity in a financial market. It must be quite an arm to place it all within the framework of the unchanged constitution. This discusses how the weaknesses in the Regulation have probably contributed to the exaggerated and overthinking risk taking, which has again led to financial breakdown and to create systematic problems in Europe, as discussed on a very official subject of the bill's report. Of course, there is the huge crisis that many countries live on after the financial system failed more and less, and the vast financial resources of the taxpayers in many lands, including Iceland, have been involved in dealing with the collapse and the damage. Probably there is no worse place for the Icelanders except for the Irish who are likely to have a national cost of similar magnitudes because of a financial system that totally broke down, with disastrous consequences. And I find this matter's characteristics, such as many other reactions, that it is being tried to fix up the system, to strengthen some risk prevention and control, to reduce dangerous motivations, all within the framework of the private business of financial companies. Laws and guidelines are not being revised in principle, this system is not being reassigned properly, and it is not even being removed that I feel in any way acceptable to the back of the state, read: taxpayers, on the occasion of trauma. Yes, I can say with a positive desire that it's being reduced, hopefully being reduced some time in the future when the next shock comes. But, unfortunately, I think we have to face the fact that here people don't go so valiantly for a job that you can be optimistic about in some way comparable things don't come back. And the efforts of the system to recuperate in the same direction are naturally very strong, very visible, and in many areas. It would be nice to take from there a leap to discuss the job policy and the proposals, the buyers so in the current law, but now to hide under this beautiful new concept, a variable remuneration. It is not even talking about pay or collective contracts anymore but about fixed remuneration and variable remuneration. It is the technical issue of the pay religion in the financial world. Now it is true and happy that this is the case or, to some extent, maintained the rigid boundaries set up in law in 2010 and then put into practice by the Commission's regulations that dealt very handsomely with proposals and other such in the financial system and, more importantly, in view of what the Icelands had seen in the previous year. But I'd like to discuss the basic thoughts behind this, like, "Why do you have to be special buyers in the financial system?" Why do special motivations, offers to be effective at work there, not in teaching children or in curing the sick? Do we not expect professional people in other areas, either with our life or with our upbringing and the development of our children, to do their work well, and to be ambitious even if they do not receive a special request? Yes, we do. The general rule of the workforce is, of course, to try to do good things with people and ensure a good and fair wage, which is highly rife in order to lead a decent, decent life compared to prices in that country. But I just don't write on the ideologies that running papers and normally all kinds of products associated with them, needing motivation, creating some products, and fine things that very much kept their way into this world 15How much before the forward and repetitive contracts and wrappings and statuss came forward and returned to new financial products, awful fine. There are several things that believe that the world will totally stop if it does not all come together, but some of these are actually spectacularly harmful and have been compared to the economic destruction weapons of men who know well because it moves up the risk balance of this system, amplifications, and has nothing to do with real and necessary financial services, sharing money between those who have much of it and those who have it into banks and those who are temporarily borrowing money. It is a very important project, a basic financial service that is involved in the safe storage and dispensing of funds, for example. Between generations, between those who are in their life or business savings and those who are in investments and a period of building up in their lives and in their business, an important view of corruption is needed, but they do not need all of this. Unfortunately, not only do I feel that people are in Iceland but they are far too much international to hesitate to take on some of the dangerous things most people are relatively new to the needle, and they are engaged in the Narcoticism industry, and especially when they took over in the financial world with the inborn greed that is built in there. What are they doing? It's all been limited. It is acknowledged that greed must not go too far. It is acknowledged that there is not to be too much risk. It is acknowledged that it is not good for banks to run primarily with short - term profits in mind rather than with long - term profits, such as that. is mentioned on page 22. 28 of the report, that resulting in increased risk to employees and much less in financial companies for short-term growth at the expense of long-term growth. How was that? Weren't they fixing up and screwing up the renovations? And not just on a yearly basis, no, quarterly it was the practice in the Icelandic banking system to shut up the flow so that every quarter of it would be better, and then, of course, there was a connection between the proposals and would be skysized for the years before the banks broke down. The highest petition was paid in 2007, the last year of the Icelandic bank business. Were they highly trusted organizations then? No. And is it enough to minimize these motives? In view of our experience, should we Icelanders be somewhat shy about it, putting ourselves there with strict rules? I say no. That's why I'm not comfortable with the extent to which it is being out of the current cost policy. They are being reassigned by moving the group to the top managers of the bank alone who will be bound by the rules, only those who come to decision-making which are considered to be related to the risk of banks will be subject to the rules, not to other employees. Now, I'm not saying that it's likely that it will be that way in the bank for humble employees to get better requests than the bankers, that would be at least unorthodox, but that's how it's done if the bill is not working. I also believe we're supposed to maintain the Icelandic prohibition that those who conduct internal Affairs and risk monitoring in the banks can be at the shop. It's probably paying them a good salary, but I don't understand why they also want them in some kind of catalysing system. It just tells itself that it has nothing to do with danger and has nothing to do with it, just as I believe, in effect, that this is the subject of the law. I'm not afraid there'll be any land and mass travel from Icelandic banks even if we have more strict rules than are. Other parts of the North. And which should be the priority, to learn from experience, and to take the criteria of the Icelandic labour market when it comes to banks, financial companies, or always to look abroad and say, "This is the way it is for the millions of people, and we have to make a living by it? That's the way it is. Often, justice was no stronger than the fact that only everyone else did it. That's why we also have a bonus, but is that good enough? Is that strong enough material reasoning? I don't think so. The most serious abuse of this system is simply a simple matter, and it is that the capitalistic new-free financial market in developed countries has been built on the grounds of the privatization of private gains in the spirit of greed being the top commandment but the national trust. This, in effect, is the mold built up. This teaches us a lesson, and it can't be done. It is the most insane and unjust system in which a person can think of a good year or an alleged good year to earn a profit completely, shovel his own money, and then run to the State and taxpayers when it comes to problems and leave them with the damage. It's the devil's capitalist, sorry, Madam President, and it's not meant to be. It's going to have to be more radical. I realize that Iceland and I may not change on our own, but at least not on our own. We should be on the lead in taking the steps we think are the most reasonable and most likely to prevent it from ever going back to Iceland that took place in 2008. It's just our duty. [[The president calls.]] It is our duty to ourselves, the modern generation of Iceland in our country and to future generations.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u73	Madam President. I respect that view. A senator believes that he can go further, but this is still a law that enables the government to work hard on financial funds when the situation calls for it. There I specifically refer to my personal funds, as well as to what is generally decided that the bank's personal funds are generally much higher than they already have. If I recall correctly, the land bank's capital was privateized at the time of his day, just less than 7%. That's quite a distance from what we're talking about today, and it's being added to these legislatures. But this and other matters will address many of them. A senator mentioned, and then we can continue to discuss it. This is not the beginning or the end of what we need to turn into a financial rule. I want to come in for a second. A senator mentioned, that we do not give up power to the national institutions that we are not involved in. It doesn't exist either. Therefore, this agreement was made between the secretary of finance of the European Economic Area for specific arrangements for the EFTA and the EEA. We will prepare the project and then discuss it during the council. I believe that the implementation that has been prepared to pass the Icelandic constitution and meet our needs and requirements, but if we were the subsidies of the EU Economic Commission and the European Bank Board, whether we should be involved or not, it is quite clear that action like the one we did in 2008 with the sentence of the emergency law would not be possible. [[The president calls.]] These people would have stopped the law of distress and their implementation as it was in 2008. This is best seen by the way they presented their reports to the EFTA Court back then.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u74	Madam President. Yes, which, of course, tempts a person to start another discussion, and the question is, how convenient it is for Iceland to have all its financial legislation in the format of these European rules that are largely based on cross-border trades and all other sizes and sizes than we should get used to and live. I'll take the highest word. Of course, the secretary of the budget is valid until another thing becomes apparent, that it looks good to find ways, ways to reconcile this constitution, that these superior powers and decisions that can come to the law so that they can come through the two supporting systems that there are no violations of anything. But I have not figured out how the European Union considered the induction to be satisfactory unless there were authority and that decision-making authority in some sort of battery. I guess that'll be some kind of EEA chair it's gonna be. All right. Of course, there are some benefits, such as those in Basel III. I can't say no. I believe it's there, e.g. In particular, it is important that we have room to define what we believe is systematicly important financial companies and, depending on events, can place quite a lot of money on them. It is obvious that the three large banks of Iceland are all systematicly important to the Icelandic economy and the Icelandic economy. That's why I was opposed to asking the highest question. A minister would then not want us to have opportunities because of their financial resources today and to take in good - looking self - interest right away, not necessarily wait for a time that is hard to see in the financial market. True, it will be difficult for the banks to achieve a high profit on a very large amount of their money, to some extent, to accept what was acceptable to them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u75	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for a fine talk, and especially that it may be our common responsibility to find that good solution. Hv. A senator spoke of a systematic flaw. Does this mean, then, that there are systematic defects in the European Union's regulations we are taking over? Then he spoke a little bit of a bonus and something like that. I thought of sailors who are almost exclusively on their marriage; they actually have some insurance; it's so low that they don't get in it much. Wants to play. So a senator proposes that sailors be just a day's work and not get a salary in accordance with performance? Then the loss of one's personal gain and national advantage. I just agree with what. A senator in that it is impossible and should not be repaired. That's why I fought so much against Icesave at the time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u76	Madam President. Hv. A senator is likely to be happy that some 85% of Icesave had been paid with the property of the old Land Bank as it was in the spring of 2009, ended up with individuals, charities, communities, rural communities, pension funds, and a number of such. Of course, when it comes to the news that two societies in Scotland finally regained their money that they lost or feared to lose in the Icelandic banks. Is it something to be delighted about, and to rejoice, that people are heroes if they succeed in making it possible for the pensions of policemen in Central England to lose money, or that poor rural communities in Scotland to get on account of Icelandic banks? Is it a hero's song? paritaprevir Blöndal Beegal wants to float over Icesave Lakes? Enjoying him. I'm not part of it, take little joy, and I've never been very happy because thousands and tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of individuals and businesses and associates were thrilled to do business with Icelandic banks and thousands of billions of dollars. Burn up and become nothing, and the largest single account there lies in Germany. But we what? paritaprevir Blöndal Vengal agrees that personal profits and national losses are bad. Then the mission is to prevent it. I think there's more to it, though the effort is good, which is found in this European principle and we Icelanders could do things, it's perfectly clear that we could, for example, do it. For the sake of formal, legal segregation of business, the routine of banking, the welcome of loans and loans to individuals and what we in general all know and understand as banking, and the steepness and investment exercises, only anywhere else, completely beyond any of the State's responsibilities. Because what always proves to be the result of trying to save, it is the public's motive when the banks are in trouble. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u77	Madam President. I know that the debate on Icesave is a bit fragile, but it forgot that there were requirements for growth, quite high interest on top of Icesave. Those who had paid money and had dealings with Icelandic banks in Britain and the Netherlands did so because they wanted to make money, they wanted to grow bigger, but they were generally in the banking system there. It was greed that caused it, yes, they get paid back, but not with interest. That is not the responsibility of the Icelandic government for those requirements. Hv. A senator didn't come in to see if it was a system-based defect in the whole system, which I think is a problem. A committee that considers the matter needs special attention, as well as on the salary of sailors, requests, and so forth, and the question why a person is not content with a day - to - day job.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u78	Mr. President. Of the proposals and efficiency systems, of course known, it's not just a seamen's harvest part, it's working in cryo-houses, industrial reexamination, etc. It is well - known and simply based on the easyness and measurement of the units that hire the reward to the relevant employee. However, that argument is not relevant at all in many other functions. Therefore, I don't think that this is a good argument for requests in banks. Of course, it is important that sailors work hard and hard to take the catch on board, make it available, and take it on, and bring it to shore, as it is, of course, possible to have a good painter who can cover many square feet, i.e. as long as they paint well. In general, though, wages are not on such grounds. I mentioned a wide range of areas of work in which no one can think of such things, such as teaching or caring at hospitals or such. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u79	Mr. President. I think most people living in Iceland, except for a few members of the Independence Party, would agree that the fire food that was cheerfully lit at the stake of the bank crash in the last decade was just a huge bank bonus. I think, too, when you look at the development in Iceland, both by 2010 and even now when we're coming up from the bank collapse, you'll see that it's the bank bonus that also leads you to pay and establish a natural set of criteria. In view of the fact that we are cut off from the international world, the currency capitals, and other ways that there are not exactly special rivals in Icelandic commercial life, at least I'm not going to be aware of it, I feel that we can allow ourselves to be very concerted, Icelanders, about bank booths. I've had an interesting conversation today, both with my own Chairman and the highest. Financial and economic ministers. I'd like to ask you why. A senator how he wanted to see this before his present situation in Iceland. On the one hand, I want to ask why. A member of the administrative program that he tore in an interesting way Although the EFTA countries in the EEA have developed a system and agreed on it, it can be questioned, at least from this hearing, that as far as it has become, the constitution will remain. In any case, it is that institutions will, according to the highest order. Secretary of finance speaks of, has the power to fit into Icelandic financial companies. True, these institutions have Icelanders inside, but there are others who can theoretically be in the greater part that will be in control if at large. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking why. A member of Parliament: Does he believe that this bill can be arranged unless the General has been struck in a gap? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u80	Madam President. This is an obvious fault, so I was doing the highest. Secretary of finance after that. At the moment, all I have is a word. Secretary of the budget for the success of working out the agreement so that it will be in good terms with the constitution. Of course, there's a bit of a strange situation, suggesting that we take some of this regular work and a good deal of these packages. But it may be that in large measure we would like to have our financial policy anyway, even if the rest of the coast, whatever the consequences, of our situation in the EEA and all of that. With the bank bonuses, I just remind you that it's not only in Iceland that the public has been getting into the throat of these things. I've been watching British discussions, and I know why. A senator often does the same. The public in Britain is totally insane now, when banks that the British State had to help with some people who are doing nothing too well, are not running too well, yet are beginning to shovel a few proposals. It shows you try in the system that the coolness has not changed. And it's true, he's going to go in the same direction as already. Therefore, it must be settled no later than now where we are going to live in these areas. Will we permanently restrict this situation so that things will not go back to normal? Then I answer the question, " How would I like to see this? ' That's for sure. I didn't want to do anything - no bonus. At any rate, I wanted them to be banned from executives who are using machines to make risky financial decisions. I'm sure they have a good salary, but it's not inhuman space science. A person does not need ten years of special training to become bank managers or stage managers or office managers in banks. A specialist surgeon has far longer university education than a son of a son of a bitch whose salary is multiplied and their pleas are made inside banks. Whether it's money, stock, or documents, what's so important about rolling in between the papers?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u81	A respectable president. I still remind the geographer, huh? paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, says that the banks swept through all the so - called rescue experts of various energy companies and institutions in Iceland because they studied behind ten years of study, many of whom found to be extremely suitable for calculating the risks in the Icelandic banking system. For a time, you even felt that doing so would have hampered the development of certain research and even the development of companies in Iceland. That's what I'm talking about. A senator told me that in many ways I agree with him. In any case, I feel like when he was or what? paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson will go to machines on these matters, and they will consider whether our experience in relation to the community's situation of being extremely careful about this. And for God's sake, for that matter. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigurjónánsson now taught me, in effect, what is a temptation in the word when we had a little debate before elections - if it's not a temptation when the bank inspectors are at a petition, what is it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u82	Madam President. Exactly. That's why I think that in this respect I have access to the very right footprints of 2010 and I'm just supposed to keep us going because this operation is clearly separated. So I'll answer this in detail at the minute I have now: Yes, I'm not gonna hide my opinion and political convictions that it would be best not, that there were no successes in there because I don't think they belong in this environment. There is very good evidence, and experience does not recommend it. Next thing I'd say, some kind of profit from the bank's good luck was shared evenly with all employees. What really bothers me most is looking up at the clerks and ordinary people on the floor of the banks are at a kind of crap store at the same time that the tops eat a lot of high-payers and bonuses. It's killing me. I'd like to see that such progress is equal to all functions. The third best option would be the 2010 rules unchanged. It's like a fourth, in my opinion, what's suggested here because, unfortunately, there's a few compartments. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u83	A respectable president. We'll discuss here a bill for changing the financial law that handles a number of different aspects of the law, employment permit, risk management, variable remuneration, treatment of property and the induction of specific personal funds, to name something. It's a very big, complicated song bill and it's clear to you. The Economic and Business Committee has a lot of work to do with all its aspects. Many interesting things have already happened here at 1st. Hv. Those who have spoken and given excellent talks count a lot of things in the bill, but they have also spoken of some needs to be considered in the work of the Committee. It will indeed be done. They have raised questions, such as whether there is some form of sovereignty in the bill. The report shows that it does not, at least, conflict with the constitution, but it is, of course, normal. The Economic and Business Committee is given a special presentation in that language. So I'd like to make sure that the main elements of the employment, financial resources, and consumer protection are at a high level, but I can't see that this bill has been approved by the Neighbour Society or by those who are to care for the interests of the public in the country that must be involved in this. However, there has been a full consultation with the financial institutions, which also have a great deal of interest. Of course, the role of the Economic and Business Committee will be to get reviews from the various organizations that are subject to consumer protection and to protect the interests of the taxpayers, who can turn the matter around. For the questions that arise when reading the bill, here is an article that discusses the ongoing assessment of appropriate owners, those who own an active component. A key factor is that they should be properly evaluated for an ongoing period of time. It's 19, sir. The bill, which will be 52nd. The law. I wondered if these articles could be added to help prevent a person from setting up some form of virtual intermediate group, who has some kind of visible but owned by incompetent owners. There may be good reason to put such a thing firmly into these laws. So you're taking steps to vary your salary, it's a considerable change in the bill, although it has been observed that things are still being more strict than regulations allow and stricter than have been done in induction in other parts of the North countries. You may wonder, " Is this example really practical for me to come from the European Economic Area or the EU? ' Here we have burned ourselves to the point that there was an inexhaustible risk to the business of Icelandic financial companies. Thus, it was that the rich motive for this and maximum of 25% per fixed salary, i.e. that variable remunerations should not exceed 25%, and that was true of all employees. This subject is discussed in Regulation No. 700 from June 2011. They are very well considered, very good regulations, and many of them appear to be included in this new bill, but with certain adjustments. As mentioned in the discussion, this is an expansion of a range of variable worksheets so that those who were to be monitored for the implementation of these bonuses, e.g. Directors and risk operators, regulations and internal reviews can now be considered for variable remuneration and may obtain up to 25% bonuses. This raises questions, such as. whether governments will be assigned to discuss a petition system that they can benefit from. A careful consideration is needed. I have my doubts about this, and they've been welded before in Senate talks. In a new article, which will be E-Filter 57. par., we're talking about not paying out bonuses unless it's safe to do so, i.e. without any worsening appearance of the company's supply. Who, then, is to stand up and say that it is? Is that an internal review? Is it to say, 'We have found that we are not to receive any bonus this year because our appearance is not good?' It is said that if you are paid not to understand something, then it is very difficult to get them to understand, e.g. To see that a bad outcome is ahead of them if they are paid to avoid visualizing it. These are very unfortunate buyers. It also happens with this bill to general employees, i.e. other than managers and executives, and those in important management positions, may have up to 100% to 200% of bonuses in their pay. While this may not increase the risk of the company itself, it can increase the risk of consumers being offered by interacting with counselors, cash collectors, and others selling financial companies to individuals and consumers, if they can be of such high benefit that certain items are sold in excess of others. I think that's what I need to consider. It has been observed here that there could be a distinction between large, systematic, and smaller companies on buying and the other aspects. That's not done in the bill, but I think there's a reason to look at it specifically. It is true that it is particularly dangerous for taxpayers and the community as a whole if very large banking agencies or financial institutions are falling, but the same is not true for much smaller companies, although it may continue to apply what I mentioned earlier on the consumer policy. I'm not a spokesman for having this unduly strict, I don't think such prescientism is good, but there's no reason to set up an impulse system that can lead to a venture that can have consequences for society in its entirety or taxpayers by falling large companies. We've come to know that. If I heard correctly, I said the highest. A minister in question earlier today that he was just open to changes in the levels of varying employment. Then I'm just going to step on my own cash. There are many benefits. There are some new financial resources being introduced to support financial and financial stability. I would like to refer to a discussion on page 18 of this magazine. Thirty-five on the bill and it's very good to me, which says, with the permission of a president: ▪ New economic research suggests that national economic efficiency is that the share in bank funding is not only much higher than it was before the collapse of the financial system but also higher than the minimum set in international order. This could, for example. Translation that if all of these special deposit bags are combined, we should rather be looking at 20◯30%, as happens in ordinary companies, there is really no good reason to have such a good deal of money in financial companies other than to increase the profits of those who control them and those who own their companies. As a result of this policy, when such companies fall, they are taxpayers who take the edge, while the operators have received their proposals and enjoy the swing. I would like to, with the permission of the President, point to a book published by The Bankers' New Clothes by Anat Admati, and Martin Hellwig, which has drawn much attention and very good publicity, including the bank manager and the Nobel Prize winners of economics. The book explains that most of the personal requirements made for banks are very sound evidence that they are exactly 20◯30%, since stocks are not expensive and loans will not be reduced, and there will be as good access to loan as they used to be. Very interesting. This book is explained in the journal of the World Health Organization, where Guðmundur Örn Jónsson, expert on the field of analysis, writes an extract from the book I can recommend to the members of Congress that they get acquainted with. The website can be found on the UNECE website, issue 2 of July 2014. So I'm stepping on a big deal on the outline of the book and taking up the entire argument, the decline is that in part money is an expensive funding for the bank, considering the advantage of banks having the tax treatment of stocks, we're naturally in the palm of the palm of the hand to make changes in it. The authors say that the reason for the lack of interest is that creditors have reason to believe that the government will pay the debt of banks if they cannot do so themselves, as has been repeated over the years. Hence, the interest cost of banks is actually subsidized by the government, which encourages the banks to keep their own money as low as possible. As a result, your own money is much lower than your own money in other sectors. Send the author in this regard to the Apple Corporation, which is completely funded by cash. There is a big misunderstanding about borrowing so as to be able to lend a loan; of course you can also use your own money to lend a loan. Money is not an unworked reserve, as many would like to think. If so, e.g. Apple company did not do much with a 100% personal budget. In the reduction of the book, the authors recommend that the minimum per capita ratio of 20% and the banks be prohibited from paying interest if the ratio is below 30%. This is the latest, most reliable and reliable thing people are considering in the wake of the world's bank crisis, and we're going to propose something about 15%. It's special when you look at the self-impliment listed in the bill, though they're certainly improving, that there's no suggestion for raising the universal minimum budget, it's still 8%. Then there is a system risk increase that may be 1%, it has no roof, but it needs to be reasoned to raise it to 3% or 5%. I guess Sweden took him up to 5%. Here, the financial system is highly fused and linked to one another, and the risk system is much higher here than anywhere else. Therefore, there should be a higher risk system risk here than in most other places. You can envision a minimum of 5%. Then there's the systematicly important companies, it's special that there's a roof on 2% of the bill, it's simply forbidden to place above 2% of the most special personal funds in the largest and most dangerous companies that should have the most personal money. Who put it that way? There are, of course, the companies who should have the highest-own money, there are companies that may just not fall at all, because the taxpayers have to come to their rescue. It is also the companies who benefit most because everyone knows that their clients will be saved and therefore they can pay lower interest in their enterprises than in other companies. They receive Kingdom responsibilities for all their accounts, and they are not put on more than 2% of their financial contributions. Then comes the fluctuation unit, which is thought of as a temporary means of dealing with fluctuations in the economy. It may be up to 2.5%, unless financial standards allow more. Then there's a reservation that everyone should pay, 2.5% of a risk base. This is all for improvement, but I think a financial and business committee should consider whether it needs to go further in the light of experience. As for consumer protection, it has been established today with 7th par. The bill, which will be 19. The law, they're strengthening her. For example, the work of the committee might be considered to further strengthen it in regard to consumer protection. For example, a failed financial enterprise, whether they should continue to submit to certain business practices that apply to financial companies, so those who become involved in business dealings with the fallen business do not suffer from a lack of respect for good business practices. You might consider staging demands that a small loan company be authorized to operate. It may be that there's a pretty big, complicated question, I don't trust to evaluate it here, but there's something I feel that I might be able to examine along the way. My time is running out. I'm not going to extend it any more, but I'm looking forward to working more on this great bill of the Committee, and I'm going to finish my case here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u84	Mr. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Frosti the Sigurjónsson's son for a particularly up - to - date speech, and particularly for the emphasis he put on two things: First, the consumer and the importance of it, taking into consideration the experiences of the previous years, to raise the bank's personal financial ratio. His thought of the self - thin money that can lead to a tremendous danger for society all was extremely timely. Hv. A senator pointed out what I had not seen, that according to a report, the authors of the bill have sought the opinion of a financial company rather than the consumer organization. Therefore, his emphasis as the head of the consumer committee is of utmost importance and might, as well as, if I'm not going to, ask him. In view of this, a senator's view of the very nature of the bill's view is indicated by the view of the authors of the bill. I'd like to ask him a specific example to explain what he means when discussing the proper owners, property parts, and talk about a showdown that appears in the fact that there is some kind of thing, I would have called it leecuting here in the old days, for incompetent owners. He means something, if I understand it correctly. He's talking about the need for more detailed rules to rule out such a thing, the incapacity of owners, in effect, in terms of property. That is why he is referring to the effective monitoring of their eligibility. I'd like to answer a question earlier today. Does he not believe that, based on how powerful the Icelandic banks are now, it may be important to let them already take action to define part of their own money as one of these five personal allowances? [[The president calls.]] Actually, I understand this bill so there's no upper limit on it. [[The president calls.]] I've understood it so that there's no de lfacto upper limit. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u85	A respectable president. About the first question why. I can be completely honest with what made me think about putting into the law something that would keep people from putting on virtual owners for financial purposes in order to be some kind of intermediate force between incompetent owners, who could, for example, possibly. being incompetent because it is not taxable or is under treatment, but has potentially a lot of property, full property, even though it is less than the requirements and it may be the dominant part of a financial enterprise through a company that would be, in fact, just a shell company. I don't see it in the law, but I haven't examined it enough yet, but maybe it already contains it. If not, it should be carefully examined. This is one of the things we need to consider in the committee. For the strong personal status of banks, especially these large ones, and the possibility of taking advantage of the opportunity to put it into law now is simply never the time to set such high personal standards in the opinion of the bankers, they feel that it is not necessary when it is a good time and can't be done when it is bad times. I'd say that the right time is when the self-finance is strong, it goes up to 30%, I guess it's between 25 to 300% in the big banks today. Thus, it is a unique opportunity for the council to do this now rather than to assign officials to do so later when the party is restarted and, in fact, may cause difficulties in later times. This is something that we need to consider seriously. I don't trust myself to resign now. There must be a point of view with and against. This is something we need to examine.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u86	Mr. President. I see why. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigrunjarjarsson so that what he means with tactability is, in effect, that the swollen, worn - out so - called still exists are incompetent owners of the Icelandic banks today. That's what he means, isn't it? I conclude that he believes there'll be a scrawl in the law if it's not forbidden. Hv. A senator correctly pointed in his speech an object of importance, i.e. that the petitioners can lead to a risk to consumers, to the little people who are looking to bank employees, to counselors who usually think about their proposals, which include extra risks for the system all. He's absolutely right. I'd like to ask him specifically about the scouts. Is it not a temptation to see that the one who is supposed to be in charge should also receive a bonus? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u87	A respectable president. I think it may be very critical, to say the least, if, for example, the executives in financial companies, who have to meet high standards and show a great deal of talent, they also have to deal with companies, which are on their way to their own. This is not really good, nor is it good for those who work in internal monitoring modules with risk management, making sure that the most reasonable and least risk is taken, not more than necessary. Everyone knows that the greater the risk that is taken, the greater the risk that workers can carry, even though they do not personally have to deal with the consequences when bad ends. So it is always very unwise to start such a bonus system. I think it's particularly that way with a systematicly important company. I agree with it. A senator was discussing the consumers. The danger there has often been overlooked.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u88	President. Perhaps the longest time here is to discuss these varied remunerations, proposals, or bonuses, or what we should call them. It may not be surprising, and most important, because I think it is not just us in this council hall who worry about it but also the regular bank businessman. People have wondered, and there may be small or larger businessmen who have wondered about the bank, whether it's doing the best for the businessman or the best for the bank. No wonder this is discussed! I get it so that it's in this law book because in general companies are not forbidden to put on bonuses. Any company, even if it's not in the dishes or if it's not in this, business can put on a bonus. That's why they put this into this financial bill because they're putting a frame around it. There are laws other than in general about bonuses. That's why we're going to say, you can put a bonus on 25%, but we're telling them not to put more than that. That's how I understand it. In case of a moment. A senator could only talk about it with me, and then so, if we don't want any bonus, we just don't do it, then it goes down to zero, and there's nothing to it, even though a 100% bonus is allowed in Norway or Denmark.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u89	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for these speculations and questions. It is true that buyers practice in all companies, and there is no fault with that. It can be very good to have a bonus, and even for employees who have dealings with consumers in general. However, the limit may have to be set when the consumer is about to weigh a large portion of his property, e.g. investing, the counseling needs to be very careful and not put into harm's way. Maybe there's a difference between this, too, not just that it's absolute about all employees or something like that. It may be okay for them to be more and more aware of buying items, but not if they provide advice on large financial decisions - smaller decisions, perhaps no matter how important, we should not be so overly concerned that nothing can be done. About the second question that's splattered out of my head.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u90	... that it has nothing to do with what's allowed elsewhere.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u91	I totally agree with that. [[The president calls.]] Of course, we can look to the experiences of other nations and see what they have chosen to do. But I think we should try to be careful and try to learn the best, not the worst. I wonder about the European Union, I know that I may not feel the same way. foreboding, how reckless it is in allowing such large purchases to governments and top executives who can take great risks with big financial institutions without having to take the consequences. I wonder how worried people are about the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u92	A respectable president. That's exactly what I wanted to draw attention to. I remember that when these buyers came here before a collapse, they said we had to be in the same roleum as any other country, it had to be like that, and in other countries because otherwise the workers went elsewhere, they got a higher salary somewhere else. In fact, a respected president, I recall that the people of the Secret Bank and the bank managers have gone up in the pay from everywhere, as if someone was seeking those whom I now don't think they were, here before a collapse. But I think it has to be very clear. I agree that I certainly wondered if there is a need for a few bonuses in my banks. I was just wondering. I don't see why any other person is comparing himself to people in other countries, and I think there may be no particular demand for these people there.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u93	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for meditation on this bonus. It is clear that we need our financial resources to have qualified people who may have the choice of working elsewhere and abroad. But there are two ways to set a goal, it is with either a decent salary worth fighting for, and a good person strives to get those jobs, or by buying, less fixed remuneration than a bonus that depends on the company's success. In the case of financial companies, such efficiency is basically a prescription for risk management. That's the problem. That's why we're discussing it here, and that's why, like a dog, is why. A senator has pointed out that this is a matter of careful consideration. I agree with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u94	A respectable president. Thank you. A candidate in particular describes the joy he felt with the warning he had here about the financial wealth. I believe he gives strong reasons not to make more demands than is being done on the bill. I'm glad to hear it, though I think it's obvious that people just want to go back to 2006 and act like nothing's happened here. I think people need to draw their conclusions from what happened here and lay down warnings about its happenings again. On the contrary, because the senator spoke of money as not expensive, banks'profits have been somewhat in the debate and, although incompetent, have included some of them, I think it is a total of 80 billion for the three business banks. It has been suggested that there are 14.6% of interest in the bank's own money and that the requirement of the Bank Office for long - term self-finance of the State should be 14.7%; hence, banks' profits are in accordance with the interest demand made by the Bank Office and, in fact, less so. I'm asking why. A senator: Does he feel that this is a normal requirement for the Bank Office? Will the government not, then, become the target of reducing the bank's interest demand if it reduces the profit of business banks and reduces the budget for customers? And because of what? A senator knows the market funding cost, is it not 14.7% that he will require a very expensive option if part of the money is meant to be with them?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u95	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question. The answer is twofold regarding the high profits of banks and the high interest requirements. I have to admit that I'm not quite sure that this number, 14.7%, is the fruit product of the Bank County, I haven't seen any evidence that it was presented in that way, and I'd be surprised if it was so high. It is important to realize that as the financial sum of an enterprise rises, the venture of the person who owns part of it is my business, and we're going to make it less profitable, as the money is stronger and should do so. I feel like it's just in front of me. I can only believe that the Bank Office has reduced its interest requirements as the financial sum grew, but I have no evidence of it here and now to answer that question. If it wasn't for me, it would be very normal for the government to intervene. I think that as owners of the largest bank in the market, the Lands Bank, governments and Icelanders should agree that the bank should have the lead in offering a good price on the market. Then other banks would need to follow, and the country would be affected in a good way, both by trust and great personal status. The land bank should be on the road and offer a great vote, a better vote, then the rest of the banks would, of course, be to follow. That would be the most obvious thing we could do. Even if it is also wise to consider maximizing the value of the bank and then selling it and reducing the debt of a state, I think that both goals of reason can be approached.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u96	A respectable president. I encourage the chairman of the Department of Economic and Business Commission to study the demands of the Bankandis because my sources are from written financial experts in the media during the last days. I haven't examined them myself, but I hear that there's a significant surprise to the head of the Economic and Business Committee if it's true that the requirement is 14.7%. If so, I can see that the Chairman felt that this requirement was reduced. I want to ask you why. A senator on another point related to legislation on a financial enterprise that I have frequently discussed with a minister of finance, and he has taken quite well, it was originally proposed by Tryggvi Þór Herbertsson, then a member of Congress. We needed to learn from the collapse that much of the business banks alone can have. In Norway, a 10% peak was in effect, and that was the proportion. A senator spoke, and the minister of finance has responded well. I'd like to hear the opinion of the head of the Economic and Business Committee and the head of the advance team in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u97	A respectable president. This is an exceptionally large congregation that I get to lecture here, but I'm still going to give it to me to give it to you. This is a bill for a legal adjustment in financial law, No. 161/2002. This is one additional adjustment in addition to this code of laws printed in 29 pages, if tried. This is a change that is probably no. In 2008, since the collapse of the financial system, a number of factors are involved in risk management and high-risk commitments, remuneration and personal funds. The first thing I'm going to do is answer it first. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's bug and simply says that this bill is not available in the ropes. As far as the bill is concerned, it is handled as far as possible. However, this is not the ultimate solution to all financial problems. The financial market, financial firms, is not really a big deal. It's a means of sharing money in time, i.e. This is communication from people who have money to those who need loans, and it is usually a communication from homes to companies. In banks, generally home is the home of the home of the home, and firms are online. Similarly, among individuals and homes, there are pension funds. This exchange may become an extremely destructive weapon of mass destruction in the event of failure. I have allowed myself to call a lawbreaker. At that time, there was a fairly structured legal and creative explanation used to maintain the survival of banks, and it has appeared before courts that there was a systematic marketing misuse of shares in banks. Things went wrong. First of all, I'm going to point it out, and once again I'm going to quote at what. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson, that I've thought for years that legislation should include a detailed explanation. This bill takes on relatively complex factors, and I believe it is desirable in Article 1. The law says that this section will be more detailed in explanatory, and especially with these personal funds, which, in fact, are partly explained but needs further explanations to be taken out of the question of what is meant. There's an explanation of the law that gives them greater weight and value and prevents what I mentioned before, a creative legal explanation, so it's about what it's all about, what the law is about. Another factor that has been very busy, are buyers, the bonus system. The bonus system is a different name for a variable salary, but this variable wage appears to be the lowest level, which is then the agreed salary. Then, in some way, it is deactivated, deactivated. Here, I get to be very thoughtful, like others, because we need to keep in mind business laws. Business companies are to be run in the form of a partner, and business partners are expected to receive a certain therapy for profit. A bonus must be based on some kind of profit, and in partitution laws there are very strict laws on how to handle profits and exchange profits, i.e. a profit should be either suspended or paid for as profit. If it is paid out as interest, it is the government that makes a suggestion to the stockholders for paying it out to shareholders in proportion to stocks, but it seems here that the management can take a certain portion of profit and distribute to employees by some rules, sometimes in advance, so I don't always see the terms of partner law. This is one of the things I hope that a financial and business committee, where I sit, takes a thorough and careful observation because what led up to what is called a collapse, where financial collapse, was certainly a business system where everything got out of place, and it was defined very badly as what became a bonus for employees. So I once again point out that this is a cover-up for the Economic and Business Committee. This brings us to our own budget. The money of financial companies is the natural driver, the one who is to prevent financial failure, and this has the potential to address the rhythms. In financial companies so far or in the long run, the only losses that financial resources could be exposed to were loans. It was hardly assumed that there could be a mismanagement in financial companies, but failures in financial companies can lead to loans. Money companies were for a time, not financial companies, but investment funds. In 2010, if I recall correctly, an effort was made to reduce that possibility, but still there are potentials still left to make financial companies more important about changing the cost of stocks, e.g. Because of changes in interest, may result in failure, as well as that in a small financial system consisting mainly of three banks and several smaller companies, it can result in failure. But I remind myself that self-finance may lead to an increase in prices for financial services, i.e. on interest. In fact, it remains what is needed to minimize risks. For example, it is organized and normal, as well as not increasing the risk, so that there may be a lower need for your own financial resources, but there is a high risk and caution. This needs to be kept in mind, how it can lead to financial cost, but it can certainly reduce the money demand that the owners of financial companies have to make. In this bill, the word puts a risk all over the air, and that's exactly what a financial business is about, that's a risk management. I think there is a risk in existing legislation and this one about 90 times, so financial management is primarily a risk management. Once again, we have come to reduce the risk of financial companies in order to keep them and serve their clients, to work, not because of their own needs, but because of the needs of customers. Let us always keep that in mind. Finally, I'm going to find out that some have mentioned that the Neighbour Society was not involved. Not all costs are to be kept in mind by consumer protection in the agreement of the bill. In fact, the F.A. has found one of the institutions of law - binding consumers, so the F.A. and the FBI representatives came in there. I expect there to be some consumer control, and of course consumer control is essential, since financial companies, as I said earlier, work for customers. I expect this bill to reach the Economic and Business Committee for discussion and to succeed. I believe that it is that most of the improvements are to be improved, but the bonus system is to be tailored very narrowly, because, as we have seen, there is really no mention of the bonus system in any company but financial companies to any extent. This may be in smaller financial companies with variable income resources, which can assign employees pay on these variable criteria. We now have another bill in the management of the Economic and Business Committee, i.e. Real estate law, real estate law, and it's natural that real estate pay depends on what's being given. But as I say, here's a lot to take. I may have a few minutes left of my time, but I don't think it's going to be the goal of finishing it. I'm willing to take this matter for the financial treatment of the Economic and Business Committee when the bill arrives there. A respectable president. I've finished my case for a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u98	President. Hv. A senator spoke of both definitions needed in law, in terms and so on, and then he spoke of a bonus or a variable remuneration or what we call it. This bill suggests that variable remuneration should be allowed and, fortunately, much lower than the maximum stated in the Directive itself. However, it is said that the management directors, managers and key workers cannot have more than 25% of the bonuses. But what's a key employee? Meanwhile, others will be able to go up to the maximum stated in the Regulation. Then I ask, Is he a member of the service? [[The president calls.]] What's a key employee? Well, maybe. A senator helped me do that? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u99	A respectable president. A big question is asked. If I recall correctly, one day I was trying to explain the term "key " (e.g., ") to the term "key " (e.g., "). It's done here in 1st par. Acting on financial enterprises of the 8th count: Eionet: An executive worker, other than the manager, who has the authority to make decisions that can interfere with the development and survival of the company. So the law itself is clear already. However, it's the government's responsibility. I doubt it, is it true that the management can have a variable salary in the administrations? [[Up front.]] We'll be careful with that, but if it is, it's totally out of control. Other than that, I can't answer, I'm not quite ready to answer in the seconds that I have left and my time is up. I've finished my case for a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u100	A respectable president. This is a bit confusing because the bill begins with these words: ▪ The following changes will occur in Article 1. ... ontheSeconds.How's that? - That's why I didn't see this definition of a key member of the law because the bill is just a matter of changing that law. I don't suppose that's said anything about the executives. It's not about the managers. It's about the managers. I'd like to ask about the amount of money, which is what it is. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson spoke of being allowed to be higher than it is now. I understood why. A senator might also be careful not to have too high a financial debt, which could go into some behavior at the bank thereafter. Am I right, just so I'm right?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u101	A respectable president. I was presented with regulations from the F.O.S.A. on financial products, and it clearly states that paying financial companies is forbidden. Of course, the price of a bank is affected by personal spending, i.e. on the interest you are being given. Let's make it perfectly clear. We can make endless demands that will lead to failure to borrow, and is that what we are going to do? Therefore, we are always left with a strong surveillance program, and let us say that the most effective system we can live on is risk phobia in the management of the bank. We can build endless walls, we can build walls with insurance systems, and all creations, but it is not that useful if humans are at risk. [[The president calls.]] I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u102	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I'm going to enter a range of professions. I wondered, in a paper with the bill, it says that the Icelandic post-mortem special rules are considered to be extremely burdensome to employees of financial companies and even wanted representatives of the financial organisation to offline these special rules so that they would probably not be burdensome for employees. I wondered: " What is so burdensome for employees of financial businesses in excess of the employees of various other companies? It is noted that these strict rules can undermine the competitiveness of Icelandic financial companies. Then I'll ask why. Senator: Is there any reason to worry about that competitive position while we are about an unpredictable future within a capital crisis? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u103	A respectable president. I'm not gonna answer for the financial company, that's all from time to time. However, it may be and may be likely that in small financial companies which do not have credits and which are primarily in stock exchange, variable remunerations may be desirable, i.e. where only communication is made. But in terms of a regular financial enterprise where stocks are being passed, not funding, financial companies building an account with debts and loans, I just can't answer that. I think it's as necessary to have a range of these types in banks as well as in children's homes. I've finished my case at this time, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u104	I hear that me and what. There's a senator there that doesn't agree. Hv. In his talk, a senator said that the bill was a great deal about risks and how to limit the risks of financial activity as normal as possible, since it is a business that has proved so risky that it has driven through whole states and continents. So I wondered, " Can it not be really risky to allow the variable employment rates of employees responsible for regulations and supervision, those who are to be the conservatives of the company and to hold back from risk ratios, and to make sure that rules are taken? '
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u105	A respectable president. There is a significant difference, then, in whether they limit risks or deal with risks. We will never escape the possibility of a business risk, however, it needs to be handled appropriately and to reduce its risk ratio. It's the question of sharing out this... Is the senator listening, or is the senator talking to others? If the senator asks, I'd like my full attention, or I'd stop, I'd just drop the puzzle. I'm simply saying that I don't think it's completely absurd that accountants and high-risk candidates are in some business section, unless they're not unless they're getting a special salary for discovering a misbehavior. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u106	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator said that financial institutions were not for their own needs but for the needs of their customers. We certainly wanted it to be, but we haven't always. So in addition, we are trying to establish a rule of order for these institutions. The reality has been that in recent years, and especially in the leadings of the collapse, these institutions began to live their own lives, and their goals in business began to work for the interests of their owners and rulers. My question to why. A senator: Does he believe that some of the problems that happened to the financial system at one time would have been prevented? I'd like to ask in particular the proposals they're giving them under the bill to the general staff at 100%. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u107	A respectable president. I believe that the changes made in recent governments as well as what they are doing here are now rather to reduce the risk of similar things happening again. But if the government's criminal soul life takes control of the banks, we can't help it at all. Here, three banks were sold and privateized, and it seems that their owners had the primary objective of emptying the banks themselves. They had the loyal assistance of managers who were, of course, being paid a great deal of money. I believe, under certain circumstances, but very limited remuneration can be paid, but I believe that a nursing home and nursing home are also suitable for a variable remuneration. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u108	V.E.G. President. That was an informative answer. Counts 'em out. A senator's privatization of all the banks previously owned by the State has been bad in his day? Would it have been closer to keeping at least one bank as a sort of stability in our financial lives? Could this have prevented us from experiencing the disastrous events we experienced at the time of the collapse of banks?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u109	A respectable president. Sometimes I don't understand these questions around here. This question is not exactly the bill, not the subject of the bill. I've seen it here many times in my mind that men have played all sorts of questions outside the subject. I'll tell you what. This question is presented in the hall, but while it's not exactly the subject of the bill, I don't take part in this question game, so I'm not answering the question. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u110	Mr. President. I worked hard to count the number of times in the bill only. 191 times, so if all is agreed, the 191 is going to be a risk-something to be accepted into the song text. Now there's a risk that something worse could happen than they calculated, we're talking about odds. Now I want to ask you why. A senator: He believes that there is enough knowledge of probability in society to deal with all the various risks being covered; and the entire bill, in effect, and its aim is to prevent a high risk and to protect itself from it. Counts 'em out. A senator that there is enough human beings who know probability to deal with all this risk?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u111	President. My answer is no.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u112	A respectable president. Among these are variable remunerations, which will be the written word for what we call a petition or perhaps an attempt to remove the debate from the negative thoughts of relationships that arise when banks and candidates are mentioned in the same context. Bonnous, I think I first met at the High-Presidents' High-Presidents, where we were the 15-year-olds at the head of the head and the bonus in the line where they were working fish, there was a lot of control over how much more time we boys were tearing the cod out of the crates and putting him on the scalp where they were so decapitated and scraped. The more codified the higher the petition became available. In that case, it was designed to encourage industriousness. But when it comes to banks, it is important for us to consider that this is not a petitioning system that contributes to the embezzlement of our customers in their dealings with the bank. Of course, this must be kept in mind that in Iceland only a few years ago, that was very much so. We have been very careful in our social discussion, including the fact that this is a small community and close society, and I think all of us have an understanding of the difficulties there faced and the difficult conditions that employees in many financial companies were facing. It changes, not the fact that people were advised to take all the measures that were not for the bank's benefit, but for the benefit of the bank, and staff urged clients to provide such advice and to employ customers in this way with a wide variety of bonuses or inquisitions. People were encouraged to take money out of bank books, to deposit it on some financial funds, and to lose significant assets. They were also encouraged to take out their possessions and purchase stocks, or to resort in other ways to arrangements in their financial affairs, which for thousands of homes in the country had completely unpredictable consequences, mortgaged their homes to participate in some financial agreements that their businessman told them were absolutely safe and then proved to be far removed from safety. I think it was quite right for us to be careful in discussing this story. But much of this story is about recording, talking financial companies with their customers, organized calls to people who had money on a book or in debt. Therefore, in discussing these proposals, we have a great deal of obligation that we could well and carefully conclude that there is not an incompetent petitioning system that would encourage wrong counselors, 100% of the candidates are sounding at least to me, not to mention 200 percent as I could hear. Economic and economic ministers are being referred to as being authorized in other countries, that main meetings or stockholder meetings could be approved. I think there is at least a fall in developing a serious increased risk of people getting worse counseling than they now get in their business dealings with financial companies. It is important that people be able to seek expert advice from their financial companies, since most of us are not specialised in this area. I'm counting on it. The Economic and Business Committee will carefully review these factors, and I will not talk about any requests for the Rapporteur. I think, among other things, in the statesmen's ranks, the point of the discussion was very clear, that there are things that people don't want to see. We're here on an overall review of the legal environment of the country's financial institutions, its first phase. Then, I think, also, it is important that we discuss the biggest and most important elements in the changes we need to see in the financial market so that he can begin to get close to it as well. Sadly, the fact is that now, six and a half years after the collapse of banks, the situation in a financial market is completely abnormal, and there is no indication that we are going to see any change there. It is, of course, the first to take what was mentioned earlier, in the exchange of words between the president of the Economic and Business Committee, and what was mentioned earlier. paritaprevir I suppose the hastes of Skarphéðinsson the son of I, which is worthy of the owners, and of the inheritance. There is no way that there are healthy financial trades in this area when two of the three major business banks, that they are still, six and a half years after a bank crash, owned by the swelling workers, who are not yet predicted by what kind of structure and in no way can be regarded as normal owners for as important as the banks of one economy as the Bank of Iceland or Arion Bank. It is empty to talk about bringing in the normal state of the financial market until this has been proposed, as well as by the one which creates this rather unusual situation, which has been the cognition of this abnormal state, which is the government's declaration that there is a state of state responsibility for all aspects of the business, not just in the bank of the state, Lands Bank, not just in these three major business banks, but in all the banks of the country. It's an environment in which people have actually just said out loud that the state is responsible for all these enterprises. So either there are very specific financial rules, while such is the case in order for the state of state to be responsible for all the details in all these institutions, or that monitoring should be much more than normal. Of course, if some investors think about setting up financial companies and starting ventures in that area, we need to get out of the environment of the state responsibility. That situation can no longer be warned, a respectable president, but now it is. I know there are some senators who have refused to accept this Kingdom responsibility because there has been no formal approval of it. In the end, it is the council that determines whether or not it exists, but it cannot be viewed differently, after government declarations in recent years, but that this is the reality, that we have a private business in the venture of a risky financial market that enjoys full state responsibility without even paying for it. However, profits are a major factor in this Kingdom - responsibilities. As to this, I'd like to say, we know that our financial market is inevitable to hold two of the big business banks of three, i.e. The holding of Arion banks and Iceland Bank will change, hopefully after a time, whether a year, two or three years we have to wait for it, but the majority of the stakeholders in those companies will leave the camp and go to other parties. It is very important that general guidelines on this matter and that the process is handled well and open, and it is available to all and beneficial. We have an example to guard against, which is the privatization of the Lands Bank and the Farmer Bank in its time when the Independence Party and the Front Party divided them into banks, with the terrible results of the political corruption. I think it is also important that we start a new discussion, which was then a few, about the importance of distribution in these large business banks. There's a lot of propaganda in this regard to shielding the political corruption as the 50% change in the advance and independence party of the Lands Bank and the Bank of Farmers, which was the insecure investor. The stone was probably removed when one of the conditions was a foreign investor in the basement, and this is where a German personal bank, which has never been obtained to reveal who was behind the bank's involvement at the offer. I think it's important that we take the discussion on whether or not to limit what one individual may have at a business bank. Tryggg Þór Herbertsson took this case up here during the last term. I've had this conversation with the Secretary of Economic and Economic Bjarni Benediktsson few times. Of course, the 10% line set in Norway did not apply to the State - and that may be true. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson noted that there was more to them than the state's peak, such as the pension fund. Well, that's something to discuss, but I think it's very important that we put some of such limits into the financial law, probably 40 degrees. of possession. We have so much bitter experience with when there is one dominant owner for business banks, such as scurry. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason, I think I was, put it back here, which seems to have the goal of emptying it. Such a dominant position in a central institution, in large business banks such as these three banks, includes such vast powers and such an enormous capacity for misuse of circumstances and such an enormous temptation in the face of difficulties or economic greed. That's why I'm surprised. A committee to consider this point and, in fact, might convey an adjustment that makes this possible during the treatment of the matter. I also think that we need to take the question of separation from business and investment banks and I don't think that there's ever a better chance than right now; maybe, like, well. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson mentioned, before the environment changes, precisely because investment banking is relatively small in the big business banks at the moment. They would have no harm in the separation. It might be much harder to do that later.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u113	Mr. President. I don't want to come in on this constantly saying that the advance party and the Independence Party split the banks. I remind you that the former head of the Independence Party, Davíð the son of Oddsson, went to one of the banks and took out his savings because he did not intend to be in charge. I wanted to ask you what. A senator of what he said about how people were advised to turn their savings into stocks. You've heard a lot about this, but no problem has come up. Now these conversations exist, they are recorded, they exist, and it should be easy to prove that people were advised to buy stocks. But somehow people have not had the mind or the dangle in them to address that matter, of course, the money was lost. This was shown by an opinion I conducted when I was chairman of the Economic and Business Committee, 55 of you. Homes lost 80 billion in the stock market, when stock became worthless, and then in 12 companies, but mostly in the three banks. In some of these cases, hopefully not very large, the people had been advised to turn their deeps into stocks that were supposed to be completely secure. Now it's my question to ask. A senator: Is it not a matter of whether those who recommended this were on a good salary or in response? Didn't it just say to the people, "Hey, you're gonna get a job tonight to call out and get this old man and turn his savings book into cash?" Or thinks so. A senator claiming that a candidate is the leading issue behind a more aggressive approach?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u114	A respectable president. I got it. I got it. A member of the Committee for Economic and Business Commission simply to call for this information when handling the matter, these audio recordings that it refers to, and say they exist. There's a lot of lawsuits going on. I don't know if this is the case. But the reason we're discussing this is the petitiones. A senator asks: " Does it make any difference whether a person is on a good purchase or is getting a petition? It's been a long time since I've worked on a prosthesis, but that's how I think we've worked so hard to get our cods up on the head because we got a bonus if we worked hard. So it must matter to such a petitioning system that the right parts are being encouraged. I think it must be risky if it is, in the petitioning of employees who are counseling customers, that if they advise the client to give the workers a substantial reward that may be as much as their monthly wage, or even double their monthly purchases, if they advise him more risky behavior than not. I think it must be up to people who encourage their customers to take greater risks with the money they have stored at the agency or are in business. So: Yes, I think a petitioning system is to encourage a certain behavior. Hence, we need to be careful about the quality of our request.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u115	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I don't agree entirely with it because the men who do job secular work, job nights, or evening work, especially between hours. At a rate of 7 and 8, where there is a four - day wage, it can be seen as a petition, although it is not a petition. I think the problem is, and we've talked about it in a financial and business committee, very often, consumer protection in a financial market. If I buy a defective sweater, I call the consumers organization and the case is solved, a defective washing machine or something, but if I lose 5 or 10 million from using my savings, according to the advice, to buy a stock that will be lost, some months later, there seems to be no consumer protection. We see it all too often. I suggest what. A financial and business committee will take on it their great, and if consumers get protected in a financial market, niceer, so that things like this don't happen again. You see, I have a feeling they've happened. Hv. A senator also spoke of the state of responsibility for the deep things of the authorities'declaration. I'm a bit ahead of it and I'm looking at the constitution that says we can't pay money from state funds unless there's a warrant in the budget or in budgets - not even in the law, we need to be financial or financial funds. That's what the Constitution says. Yes, it is the foundation of everything, and we have sworn an oath to it, all why. Senators. Thus, while these responsibilities are not been referred to as responsibilities in financial or financial contributions, they are not subject to the State's responsibility. It may be that it is the responsibility of these individuals, seeing how far their assets are needed to pay the loss of deep things, but that is not a Kingdom responsibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u116	A respectable president. I'm glad to hear what's going on. A senator who I think I'm right to be the vice president of the Economic and Business Committee to ensure good consumer protection in the financial market. Of course, I think it would be a lot of joy if a parapolitic body of the commission under the head of the senator was to ensure good consumer protection. This does not mean, however, that it is safe for us to have in financial institutions an unlimited petition and a hunting permit for our customers. Of course, we do need to consider in what way and in what part we are encouraging financial markets because no matter how well we guarantee the consumer's rights, we are sorry, so not all consumers are seeking their rights. Therefore, it is important that people receive as good counseling in their business banks as possible. It is a great responsibility to create a petition system that can increase pay considerably if it contributes to increasing the risk for customers, i.e. from among individuals. Of course, aesthetics and businesses are supposed to take risks and material people, but we are in this relationship perhaps primarily considering that candidates, when counseling ordinary people who do not have knowledge of financial markets, can be cautious. We need to be careful how they are designed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u117	Mr. President. Hv. A senator made a subject of his speech and, indeed, in reply earlier during the discussion of the unusual situation that certainly exists on the holding of two of the three major banks, i.e. Arón, Bank of Iceland, Bank of Iceland. It is true that in the discussion, it is being handled as closely as it was possible at the time when firewalls could be held between the reefs and an independent holding society. This is caused by both the approved bank and the contracts of between the old and new banks under the supervision of the FMEs that while this unusual situation was defended inside an independent partner, it is impossible to interfere with it unless it is for a suitable future owner, firm, and proper◯ owner, such as a person's injury. Of course, this situation is longer than you expected, and of course it is not permanent, I agree. That's what a senator does. We might ask, " Why did men lack the courage to buy either or both of these banks, e.g. In 2011, when it is quite clear that they had gained the name of their own wealth in them, as it did back then. Why didn't the Icelandic pension fund or any other such person have the courage and belief in a Icelandic economy that they were thirsty? The banks, in fact, were turned off by foreign people, and they must also wonder if they had not been buying for many years. Anyway. About the other one as a dog. A senator mentioned the full - scale security of each of our concerns that as late as we are now, at a good time in 2015, it is still in effect. Nothing's ever happened I know. I'm asking why. A senator: He runs less to have seen only any steps, such as those in the preparation of 2011 and 2012, starting to blow off the overall insurance insurance system by publishing that the following would be the occurrences of others other people who would not be loyal, i.e. stocks or investors, and communities and large parties, would then have the insurance system available only? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u118	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. There was an unprecedented situation, and arrangements were taken that were unusual and special. That does not mean that they were wrong, but they were clearly temporary, solutions until things could be normal. It can go for a few years. I think we're gonna do what. A senator simply worries that six and a half years have turned out to be a very long time and perhaps even worse that you can't see that the government has anything to show that we're getting out of an abnormal state. In particular, I agree with the senator that it would be possible to establish at least some kind of plan, even if it was to be taken away from responsibility for some particular period of time or, for example, that the responsibility should be paid for it. It is natural that the owners of both Arion and Iceland banks, mostly foreign demands, are making a huge profit from a work that actually only thrives because of the State responsibility, perhaps natural, simply taking a fee before they choose to have taxpayers responsible for these aspects of their work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u119	Mr. President. I agree that it would be an immediate improvement to see a plan on this and it's something to consider. I've been thinking about it when it came up here. It's been so long since people were making plans on how to back out of this overall insurance in the back of the world that we were putting up with ideas about it, me and Gylfi Magnússon, at the top. Economic and commercial ministers, as early as 2010. The idea was to start just by step, where certain large parties would be given notice that from time to time their involvement would not be guaranteed. The best way to do this is to publish that timing in advance, and then it runs out of its time period and no one notices anything, then it's back to normal. Of course, people continue to want to make sure that this causes no agitation. There's virtually no evidence left for that assurance, at least not when we look at the big banks heavily financed, with up to 30% of capital and cash available, very well up to it, even if there were some who would take out some money in nervousness because the state's overall insurance was being diluted. Second, I want to - why. A senator also came across the question of a scattered property, in fact, a lot of good has been recorded in this discussion, and a financial and business committee has a lot of resources to work on these matters, probably nothing but time to review all that has been mentioned here in those topics - to remind that in the years up from the turn of the century 2000 to 2002-2003, the person who stands here several times to put the roof of the individual bodies on banks. I think I remember correctly that I was there considering an 8% share of property. At that time, it was always the time of the time. Prime Minister sprang up and joined me, but the Minister of Business - until the last time, until the issue was turned around - but the government's business minister found this all out of the way and thought it couldn't be done according to EEA regulations and so on. [[Take it up to the end.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u120	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator of state responsibility, I think it's a bit similar to separating investment banking and business banking that the opportunity is now during the situation the way it is. Of course, it can change quite quickly, including. can quickly change the ownership of big business banks. Then it may be too late to make changes in our responsibilities. For example, a small venture in financial businesses could become the principal partner of one of these big business companies after some conversion in the swelling farms and the private financial standing of that company from the current legal level. Will they take action, then, to take over the state responsibility of the bank after its private interest has been established in the market? It's going to be a lot harder to get rid of the preliminary arrangements when Adoni and Iceland Bank will be handed over to someone. It may be better to do so now, though, when the owners are well prepared and the circumstances upstairs that you can do this without experiencing unpredictable results on the market, if this is done over a period of time and with certain groups at once.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u121	V.E.G. President. I met a member of the Independence Party earlier, why. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason. I asked him two questions, one on the other, about the rule of the bill that we are here for discussion, and this was particularly accompanied by the record of the request made to public employees by 100%. Since his answer was intertwined by the privatization of banks back at the turn of the century, I asked him if he thought it was a mistake to make personal choice and to sell the entire bank. He said the question is so ridiculous that he didn't take it to answer it, it's kind of a question game. In other words, a member of the Independence Party does not consider it worth talking about holding a bank. Now it is the fact that before both, we are now, Iceland; on the other hand, we are setting up financial legislation, law and regulations, on how to operate, and on the other hand, we look to the environment in a larger sense. Shall we sell the share of the government at the Bank of the Lands? It is a question discussed here by Congress and by the general community, and we are dealt with which way we should go. Yesterday, at the General Assembly of TSA Convention, Trade in Services Agreement, which turns, including to a global financial deal. There they wonder how far we should go in such a way as to remove barriers to business ventures with money, money, and money. During these days, other such agreements are being attempted between the European Union and the United States, a so-called TTIP deal, Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership. Today, 375 public groups from the west and east wrote to their members at the European Parliament and the U.S. Congress, however, were encouraged to prevent agreements from being realized.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u122	It doesn't mean anything to look at me.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u123	It is a reality that this world faces today, and of course it is at home to discuss these matters. Which way do we want to head? Not long ago in Iceland, big banks, the Lands Bank, the Farmer Bank, and no state fund had to run with these banks at one time, with the Lands Bank in the early 1990's. Every dollar was paid back, every dollar. We know what happened afterward after the banks were privateized. The economic system, not just the financial system, but the economic system in Iceland fell down with disastrous consequences for government funds. Of course, this big picture should be discussed, and it isn't just us who do it, the whole world does. These things are being discussed in Europe, in the European Union and outside and also in the United States and not just on the basis of the agreements I referred to. This, however, was the reality that the Icelanders did not live to so many years ago. We stood here at a council hall and talked for a long time about whether it would have been decent or immoral for bankers to invite men to go fishing. It was the most corrupt place on board here. Of course, there were a number of cases in the old state booths that may have won a doubleback, but comparing the time with what follows is comparing oranges and apples, quite different at home. And now they ask, Which way do they want to walk? In the United States, there is now some debate as to whether our rural communities should try to get out of this environment by forming their own banks to keep their own financial movements and to prevent the violence that has been introduced into the financial world. But this is exactly the case with these international business contracts, i.e. To pay the streets of financial power and the thinking that these forces have promoted. So it turns toward the environment, the ◯ macro-environment. If we look into the ◯micro world, the laws and rules we now discuss whether to place financial companies, there are some things to think about. In the second century C.E., the thought of not requiring an increase in education for all who control financial institutions has been taken advantage of. The individual should prefer to be evicted in any market study, preferably by degree of pocket and course in how to handle money and preferably profit from it. We've led out people, e.g. From the management of the apartment loan fund for the reason that it does not have a separate degree. It's illegal to have people who don't have these degrees. There are no questions about degrees in ethics or about knowing the Ten Commandments. Asking if there are degrees in market education. That is the requirement that we have dismissed a number of people from the governments of these institutions on that basis, people with good judgment. It's just reality. All that order is now under pressure. I sometimes ask myself, " Could it be that we need people of other kalibers, with a different thought, a program other than what we are after? ' Good, honest accounting teachers who know how to calculate and have good judgment? [[Up front.]] Because the others with the grades were the men who took us to the swamp and put the financial system next to them. Then it is assumed that it is the kind of species that will direct financial institutions in the coming days because the bill - I don't know how many laws go out on putting ties on the dangerous Adam. As a result, this bill goes on, how prevents the cheaters, the profit industry, and the barbers from taking these organizations to the direction they used to do so. Out on it, it works. Could it be, though, that we should try to pull ourselves out of that channel? That's why I'm a spokesman for the fact that we, the public, the community, hold possession of at least one bank of the state. But there is hope that now the business council wants to sell that bank, especially after it turned out to be the return of 26 billion Kingdom funds last year. We also learn that the three banks of business paid 30 billion dollars for services. plus this profit. Little wonder that in this hall people wonder why these funds are not passed to customers in lower interest and less services. But it's something I think it's important for us to act, that it's important for the Icelandic economy and the Icelandic public to keep possession of at least one bank. That was the emphasis we had in the left movement ◯ green supply went by the time the banks were marketed. We said: "If some banks are sold, never must they all leave the government's property. The following is the other subject that has also been discussed, i.e. The petitioning systems that will be discussed in this bill. As far as I understand, it's authorized to give public employees 100% of their requests, to increase their salary by half, but less to those in charge. I take to heart the earlier emphasis on the question: Why on earth does such an arrangement need to be seen in financial institutions that we do not want to see at other places of work? [[Up front.]] And especially in these institutions, it is dangerous. Hv. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason, who is afraid to talk about holding banks and using abusive terms for men who want to do such a discussion, should look to this. V.E.G. President. I don't know how many more words I need on this bill. I stress that it is wrong to consider this as a matter of fact. We need to look at the entire financial system and discuss where we want to go with this system, whether we're going to continue on the path that is set out in the great world, and we're involved in the TiSA agreements, as they are doing in the so-called TTIP deals over Atlant Souls. Do we want to continue on that course, or do we want to come together with the public in the United States and elsewhere who want to reevaluate the system from its roots, to rethink these matters, and not to look back to the rule in the sense that is being done here? But what I wanted to say was that I forgot when I referred to it. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, in regard to the concept of the petitioning system as such, to place it in the bank's regular work and in the outline of all policy plans, that the higher your pay as the Agency makes more money. Is that good? Is it possible to make offers that work the other way, that the higher the wage, the lower the fees of service, the interest, and the less profit to the owners of banks? There's something very contrary in all that thinking. In most parts of the public system, there have been objections to the establishment of proposals into the public profession. It's always thought of as evil. We know it from many parts of the world. People have tried to do that in college, have been given notes for essays, and all begin to extract essays and articles regardless of their usefulness. This is how all systems can turn into their resistance except in the banking system. In the financial system, the damage was much more serious, and we should learn from experience in this regard. I'm not gonna take a stand on this bill. I don't know that in any detail. I just see the main focus here. I see we're opening up an extra bonus here. I heard the highest. The secretary of finance cries out that the pioneers did not grant a higher offer to those in charge and gave the impression that it would be fixed during conquistancy. He thought it was really bad not to have it bigger and more in there. Some cry that the governor has less pay than the bankers at other banks. I personally feel that it is a medical witness.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u124	President. Thank you. A senator for a question - and - hope speech, and I want to say it just at the beginning, that I sincerely agree that we should not sell the Bank of Lands. I don't have to look at it any further, I don't think that's an option. And so I should come here, since the Bank of Lands finds that there's always a Senate resolution that there's a private investigation of banks being here 10 or 12 years ago or so. It would be a pleasure if the council brought up this investigation, as it has been approved here. It must be said of this bill that it is in order to reinforce the rules of banks. That is why I feel positive that there are certain things I can probably do about it. These buyers are a multitude of thorns to our eyes, and then there are some things that are a little strange when you read them accurately. I'd like to go with it for what it is. A senator asks what he thinks this means. It says that unless the first year of employment, proposals cannot be guaranteed, so you can pay for a so-called recruitment bonus. When you hire a man, you can say, "You'll get a job bonus." What does that mean? To me, that means you can buy employees in the first year. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agreed with me on the interpretation?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u125	V.E.G. President. I've got to feel bad. A senator by saying I'm so ill at buying and getting paid that I don't know exactly what this means. On the other hand, I know that some carrots are being put for men at the hearing. Some people believe that with high pay, insurgents, and others like that, you always make the best of them. I've never agreed with that. I think it's even the other way around sometimes. I am pleased to hear that we agree that the Bank of Land is not to be sold. We also agree that the decision of the Generals to investigate the privateisation of the banks is to be carried out. That's not done, and that's what we have to do. I agree with that. A senator on this matter. I agree with you, too. A senator's idea that this bill of order, as I understand it, I don't know it at all, but it also, in some respects, is an amassing of the ideologies that this new thought in the banking system is based on, and that's where my doubts are.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u126	A respectable president. It's like whisk. In his speech, a senator spoke of the requirements set out for those in the management board of financial companies, saying that they need a university education, that is specifically stated. I have doubts myself about setting such demands, and I notice that, for example, in the European Directive there is no requirement that those who are involved in the management of companies have a university education, that is prepared at home. But that's what they say about some things. There's something else in this bill that's a little more loosed in the words. It says, for example, by permission of a president: The management of a financial company should spend an appropriate amount of time discussing key risk factors for the company's activities. [[The president calls.]] Now's the time. A senator who could sit on the board of the company. How will he judge what it means to spend a reasonable amount of time discussing the company's risk factors? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u127	V.E.G. President. First, as for university education, I find it interesting to hear that it is not in the European Union's directive because it looks at them for progress. We had this in all of the laws here on private partnerships to demand a university degree for almost all governments in the past. I always breathed it when it came up and wanted to be referred only to education and experience that benefited from the work, but not to exclude people on the basis of a test degree. That might be very questionable. About spending the right time, I'm getting a little younger. When the British entered the oil bank, they encouraged the people to isolate their previous homes and put on television. It was in English: ◯Energy Sense - Common Sense. Save it! So they wondered as much as it was to save, whether it was a ◯energy sense, or ◯common sense. I'm waiting for the highest. President's apologies for the English canals.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u128	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A candidate for a very meaningful talk. He cut off a few things. I find that an interesting point when he says that there is good evidence that the State should have one bank. It can be a good reason, and then the bank would likely be responsible for making the market improvement and showing the other banks how to serve the economy, the economy, and the people of the country. I'm gonna ask you what. A senator's opinion of the discussion is that he should be sold to foreign banks, that's very good. I have some doubts about it. I believe that if you are allowed to run a bank, you are actually given permission to create money by means of the business banks'means of making money. It's surprising to many that it's not the Secret Bank that makes Iceland's currency, it's just business banks that do it when they borrow. Do we want to benefit from that flow of money from abroad? Would it not be burdensome for our economy to be in it constantly, say that there are now 80 billion in profit from these banks, and that 50 billion people have to run ashore in the form of currency? What do you think? A senator question that question?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u129	V.E.G. President. I think we're gonna do what. A senator would agree. First of all, I rejoice that he agrees with the importance of our having at least one bank as a foundation for our economy. Regarding the bank property, I ask myself, " Why do people want a bank? It is for his own gain, and if his property is foreign, it will tell itself. I've never given much for the fact that it didn't matter what the Spanish capitalism is. I think it's important that he's in the community, and as far as possible, the profits of employment are concerned are going into society. It's not that I don't think I'm good in various things to get in here knowledge and therefore some money, but a huge amount of money in the form of a foreign currency can hardly be desirable.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u130	Mr. President. I hear we're what we're talking about. A senator would agree on most of this. I think that the reason we care about who owns the banks is the special license they have to take the role of the Secret Bank and make the deposit. It might be the answer to stop handing over to private companies the license to make money, restore it, move to the Federal Bank. We may not be interested in the personal services of the Secret Bank. Rather, we will have it as an institution that allows enough supply to be made of what we call money in the country, to do what needs to be done in the economy, to exchange goods, services, and so forth. But after making such preparations, did it not matter less who owned a bank? They wouldn't have to be rescued if they were killed, that would be the problem of the sharers, more or less. The currency itself does not stop working because it is fired by the Navy Bank, whether it is in the form of money or deposit, it is stored in the Sensian Bank that cannot go wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u131	V.E.G. President. Here's why. A senator begins to walk into the lands where his mind has long been searched, and I find his speculations very interesting and sobering. On the other hand, I'm going to stay on this side of my lawsuit that we try to ensure that the holding of the Lands Bank remains in the public interest, if it happens to be a government property, and, of course, my wishes are that the financial system, where possible, is owned by a domestic property.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u132	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for his speech. I just wanted to introduce to the proposals that are listed in the bill as a variable remuneration. It is noted that smaller financial companies are more used for business fluctuations, so they may be better suited to have less pay for their employees, but then they can increase when profits grow. I feel that in some way, it is not really the position of the workers that makes the job a living but, in fact, an external effect that happens there, causing some of them to go well and sometimes badly. Then you wonder, " If this really is the case, I think it's part of it, but it's also a matter of risk ratios making more money, even though it's more short - lived, if it shouldn't apply to all the activities in general. ' Is this in the spirit of the pay policy we would like to pursue, that there was a general pay grade, but when it was well - prepared, it would be possible to increase the pay temporarily? Is this an arrangement made by bankers to accept more than others, or how does the senator feel about it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u133	V.E.G. President. I want to agree with almost everything. A senator said that a high - risk struggle can make money but is not necessarily a basis for the future. I agree with what. Regarding the basic conclusion that people have more than a person's heart and the things that may vary in terms of them are as small as possible. It is what matters in our lives, in our balance, and in our security. That's what we most want. I don't understand why people, those employees, have to live in an environment quite different from other people, teachers, nurses, and others who work in the community. I don't understand why it has to be done, and even I think and I want to ask you why. A senator questions whether a candidate in a financial system could be harmed directly by it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u134	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer and the question. I am convinced that they can be harmful. It looks like the bill is trying to stop the risk here as much as it is possible, but it's expanding these requests, and I heard that the senator wanted us to focus rather on changing the financial system. I'm sure now we both agree that banking is very important and mediates money on the economy and society so that one borrows another, and one saves by lending to others, and that's important, but I think that this kind of a bonus can just encourage creative thinking about financial products. Economic products can be very dangerous, for the aim is primarily to make money for someone without creating real value. Thus, whether through the collapse of the financial system or by overpriced services, others pay in one way or another.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u135	V.E.G. President. One down. A senator here told the discussion today that financial companies work, not because of their own needs, but because of their clients. That's how we'd like to have it. But I think that request thought was all over the back, and then I changed my mind. These institutions begin to work in their own interests, and the goals they seek are intertwined with the interests of owners and managers, and this cannot be done. This petitioning system contributes to this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u136	Mr. President. A bonus system in the banks and a thin-blowned amount of money is a poisonous cocktail. That is, in fact, what I believe is the conclusion of the great discussion that we have today. There have been huge speeches, and the debate is a compliment to the council. The government and management team have advanced their experts in this field, and I have to say that it has been a source of great satisfaction and great comfort to listen to men as well. Senator and chairman of the Economic and tax Committee, Frosti Sigurjónsson, come here and describe their attitudes, as well. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason to the dismay of former secretary of finance and Minister of the Interior, Steingrímur J. Sigfússon and son of Jónasson. All the points that have appeared to us have served to describe the discussion, and I think that when we are at the end of the day, the discussion has made a significant difference. I said that the poisonous cocktail of two types: one on the other, a bonus system in the banks, especially if it goes out of proportion, and the other, a thin figure of its own money. Now, this bill is taking, or dealing with, both of these factors, and I think it may be said quite clearly that the rules for the bank's own money are very much improved. It's making clear rules, that I don't say songs, that, under certain circumstances, the UN is supposed to make sure the banks add to their own money and are actually listed in the bill five different types of money. I felt that one of the things that has been presented here and that both the anti - government and the executives are right here, that we should use the special position that exists today. You could say that the banking system is in some shelter today, and the bank's own money is very much. That's exactly what I think in such situations we should take advantage of this bill, when it's legal, to ensure that the banks in their own good, since they have both made very much money and have strong money, take the step further and increase their own money, i.e. Uses the scope of these rules to strengthen themselves, not only their own money, but also to improve the quality of their international standards, thus strengthening and strengthening their credit. As soon as this is done, Iceland's reputation and credit are being strengthened. This is important to me, and I notice that both of them are important. The members of the board and the government side agree on this. Its equipment, i.e. The automatons on the bill, I don't think I'm clear enough, and it made me happy. The head of the Economic and tax committees said that it was right for the Committee to specifically examine whether this was not to be done as a special basis for the three largest financial institutions in our modern world, and I agree completely with him on this. However, in the bill itself, the F.O.P. is actually supposed to push banks. Of course, we know that if these conditions become publicized when banks are threatened, they are the last ones who are going to raise their own money. That is why in times like now, when they are in a strong position, that is to be directly ordered. Many of us who were here in these sales in the conduct of the bank crash, the months before, during which, and then in years, and then in followed by losses, caused damage to the discussion and to the sequence of all events, and everyone, I think, learned from experience. The important thing is that we learn from experience and change our system from what events showed that it did not. It's very important, and that's why I say it's very important that the equipment that comes out in the bill of the kind here is very well-sealed. This bill is truly legal, and it is difficult to read through it. However, it is essential that members of Congress give this much attention, and especially that the experts sitting in front of the classes, in terms of the economic and tax committee, be exactly put in place. We have finally lost a great deal of justice through the Icelandic legal system. In fact, we in these sales have shared in expanding the legal system, increasing funding for it, both for research, for the prosecution, and for the judicial system itself. One of the things sent out is that there has been a great rift and hairpieces to determine whether a person might have committed a crime because the law has been so vague. So I say, that's why we need to learn and build this bill and the vital laws that will result in the most precise process. But I have to say it just as it is, when you go through the bill exactly as I've tried to do, you see good will and light the goals of the bill heads come out of each article. I do not question that on their part there is nothing more than to make the best of laws that serve the best interests of the Icelanders and to minimize the likelihood that they will be exposed to a system hazard, which could possibly cross government ties, and this will lead to collapse again. I have to say, though, when I cross the bill, I'm so scared in chapters. First, how often things are vague, second, how uninformed they are, and third, I see no better than that in some cases the temptation is being made. I've been sitting here for 25 years and, of course, out of that experience, I've had this really great test of balls in the ac Dontomoy, but I don't think of myself as an expert. In any case, I've sat and shared in directing this country through collapse and sitting in these sales, but I have to say exactly what it is when I go through this bill is a lot that I don't understand. There are words that I have never seen before and that are nowhere explained in the text. One of the things I don't feel I don't have to do, like what's wrong. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason made a thorough move in his good speech today, the fact that all sorts of words such as the equacao equacao, found in the 30th chapter. d, can't be found in the comment. I could take many other examples, but I'm not going to waste my time on it. Of course, there are five different types of self-inflicted ones, but for those who do not have one or two degrees of college, this is hard to understand. Such a bill is not to be provided for the council, so men who have been up for a long time will not find it hard to understand. I'm going to allow me to go over a few things where I believe that men have made laws that work against the law's purpose. The goal of the law is to eliminate the temptation, to eliminate the dangers that were found within the system, and to reduce the likelihood of dangerous behavior. In 29. exceed, where IX is being modified. section of existing legislation that treats risk factors for financial functions, e.g. magazine on a Risk Committee. Of course, the Risk Board is a key committee, which says in 1st, that every financial business is to be run by a Risk Committee. But it just so happens in Section 4. Section 6. it is clear that there is still a possibility that such risk committees are not installed. It speaks of the head of risk management in the Risk Management Board where the Risk Management Board is not available, but it does state unprovablely in 29. that every financial company is involved. In terms of the Convention on Risk Management Board, it is said to be a minimum of three men. Two of them can be managers of the company. For example, in view of my experience, what I find remarkable is that it may not be expected, even unprovable, that big financial companies should at least One man on the Risk Board comes outside the company. I think it would be most necessary. However, the definition of the Risk Committee activities is remarkable. Among other things, it is to consider whether motivations that can include what I call a proposal, but this bill in some peculiar cover and cover game calls variable employment, can lead to an excessive risk of business ventures. Mr. President. However, more part may be made up of corporate executives who are motivated by governments and, in some cases, perhaps often, also make decisions on themselves. Then I'll say, here is a moral moral hazard for those in charge of the Risk Committee, which I see as much as it is. The point is not clear to the details of this presentation, but it can be determined by the environment of the words and if you look behind them that this is done because it is likely that the rulers are careful to care for the variable remuneration that they are best qualified. This does not change the fact that there is a moral problem. This is an example of an internal inconsistencies between the rules of the bill, and I have taken it as an example because this is an important factor to reduce the risk ratio of the system which directly violates the law's purpose. At the beginning of this chapter of my speech, I stressed that the words were clear and pointed to the new ones in judicial matters. If we go to 10. which is of utmost importance, it deals with how to make donations or loans for executives, to the owners of active property or staff. It shows that there are limits and that they must be loaned only against what, Mr. President? Let's make sure we're secure. There is no record of reliable insurance. What have we seen leading up to this inexplicably evaluable wording? In the same article, so that only I continue, the members discussed are referred to as the executives, employees, owners of the active holding part of the estate, the same regulations as business dealings with common businessmen in a similar business. Then you'll have a hard time doing the following things, as much as you can. Who should appreciate it? There is no indication that it is to be appreciated by the SEC. There are no special rules about that. I find this to be very vague. In the same article, it is said that credit or payment should not be given to the individual. That's fine, 200 million. It is probably not on the standards of today's world that provide an enormous amount of money for individuals who are extremely well - versed. Then comes the next sentence, and it reads like this: It's permitted to give the F.A.A. an exception to review the budget according to the 3rd Case. So it's forbidden, there are rules, and then there's leave immediately afterwards, just like in III. section in which UNEP is granted permission to cancel work permit if there is serious doubt that financial companies can maintain their commitment to their creditors and their depositors, but the next sentence says that the UN must have a very high priority to apply the warrant and only in case of emergency. Mr. President. Now that my time is over, I could take six other examples, and yet I would say that, based on the geniuses that have been discussed here today, only a dog would pass that bill and I would also not have an extra pungent test in these studies. I say it's a positive bill, it's coming forward, but it's going to need a much stronger bond. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u137	Mr. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson for his speech. He explained so much about the content of this relatively complex matter that I began to wonder if he would not have to retract his historic declaration from earlier years, though it is true that he has no knowledge of bank issues. [[Up front.]] I think she has fallen with a bold speech. Senator. I believe that what he has brought to the attention and discussion, both now and previously, about the risk management committee and, in fact, about both its composition and its position within the financial companies is a lot of thought and one of the things the Economic and Business Committee must consider. It has to do with other factors, which are the question of whether such persons should be able to share in the bonuses or the variable remunerations, as it is called, which I am all aggressor and would have liked to see that men stick to what was determined in 2010 and confirm by the UN rules that they were completely excluded. Third, the question was, "What?" In any case, a senator or a judge may think I should dig a little better into, and that is the question of loans to employees, managers, and other such. We know that this is very dangerous. There are, of course, some things that have been handled since the collapse, and a report by the NTSB says that it was part of the bad habits, these huge loans with no risk that employees could go to the banks to buy in that stock and all that. But it remains that there is a real problem with a financial agency, that a bank has the authority to lend its employees, I don't talk about government or government officials. Of course, it would be best for that arrangement to be out of harmony with normal consumer loans, those that all people need every day. [[The president calls.]] Once upon a time, that rule was preordained, at least In one financial institution I knew, to ask employees to have their account in another institution.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u138	Mr. President. Many wise men have spoken here before me and have crossed many things. For example, a problem arose. A member of the Board of Directors whom I would like to spend a full talk on. I simply chose to take this matter in my speech to show that this bill is very important. The good will is completely light, and I believe it is. Financial and economic ministers are on their way very well with their financial resources. I agree with him, just as I heard it. A senator being today, that the law of the bill would probably be important to achieve the first, just because, as we agree, now is the time to exploit the five types of personal funds to strengthen the banks, both to possible future dangers but also to increase their credit rates and thus to raise Iceland's credit rates and reputations. That's what matters to me. I'm sure that's what I'm gonna do. A senator noticed that I did not put in the hide-and-dote, come along and call a variable remuneration, a word I had never seen in myself until I saw them in the bill when it came out last year, and we just call a bank booth. Others dealt extensively with it, but I agree completely with it. A senator in his position that it is one of the Devil's favorites. When I thought about it, I began my speech. A senator was absent by saying that the results of the discussion - and I specified, for example. Yeah. Senator and Frosti Sigurjónsson. The head of the fiscal and tax committee, in this matter, would be that the poisonous cocktail is as thin as his own money and excessive bonuses. This is what can be said that together the banks proved to be like a wave of fish when the storms blew. [[The president calls.]] That's why I agree completely with him. I think in every respect, about his attitude in terms of the bonuses.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u139	Mr. President. I agree with what. A senator about the concerts here on the buyers, letting go of certain flirtations at the highest level. Secretary of finance to do that. It was clear to him that he was not upset about the use of an economic and business committee and that he cleared the rules, obviously not in opposition to the highest standards. Secretary of finance. But, as a result, people have talked with a very loud contingency about today, which is a cause for rejoicing. I can't draw that there'll be any more things here for making room and opening rules. Hv. A senator also correctly mentioned what is right and is a small symptom of the European system's reaction to the problem, and it's a ◯ hold me - let me go. It is said in many places: Yes, let's set this limit, but if he wants to, we have a way out, we don't have licenses, we let stockholders raise the purchases. I have identified several factors in this subject, one of which is a loan to the workers, another is the revocation of jobs. How far we can go in making this clear, we need to look at it, because even though it is relatively edifying to various extents of the European system, this is clearly the conclusion of the compromise, obviously man has succeeded. Let us not forget that in the European Union, there are countries that are largely based on international financial activity and spend as they do in that sector as they do. There we have Luxembourg, where we have the British and Liechtenstein, and of course we are short in Switzerland. [[Liechtenstein.]] But Iceland can, of course, have more rigid rules on that subject. They need to be objective, we need to prepare them, and we need to be convinced that they are not apparently more unfair toward our institutions, but we have the authority and authority to do so. I think it's perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-03-76.u140	Mr. President. Is it unfair to our institutions? When asked why. A senator out loud. We live naturally under special circumstances, which are the banking system in Iceland being cut off from the world, so I cannot see in some way their competitiveness would be undermined. I agree completely with what. A senator that this is naturally much more than a flirt or a wing point at the highest level. Secretary of finance on the bonus system. He was almost asking the General Parliament to change his own bill in order that the stockholder's meeting might be increased by the management and executives, the key executives, to 100% and said: In other parts of the North countries, this may be allowed as far as 200%. The point is, of course, that we had a much worse situation here than other Norwegian countries in their 1980's. It is my conclusion that this intertwined mixture, such as cohesion, was very clear during the discussion today. A senator described in his speech today, of the gas - rich bonus system that exploded from every wood of 2007 or the last year before a crisis, together with the pursuit of profit, which is a burden of its own to gain the highest proportion of profits, was what made our system literally lying on its side. We must learn from that experience. We need to learn well from it. I disagree. A senator in one of his talks today. Hv. A senator believes that there is an recognition in the report by the European Union that the system is not working, but they are still setting it up. But they're still changing it, from this bill to me, because they intend to change the rules of their own money. That's important. They're doing the same nonsense again with the bonus system.
