ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-72.u1	The President would like to inform us about the formation of the Senate today. Protocols on 3,◯6. will be around 11:30 p.m., i.e. after the special discussions that follow. At the same time, it is planned to have two more meetings today, with the appropriate votes, as it is intended to handle a case of supreme importance. Minister of the state of forced sales as law later today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-72.u2	V.E.G. President. I've been making a note about the President's conference board in order to draw attention to a case that was being decommissioned at the moment. General Education and Education Committee this morning. Then a case was taken up concerning the sale of alcohol and tobacco, to bring it to a general camp. My comment is that this matter is being addressed to the Committee and released when certain members of the Committee are not present. That was true this morning, while one of the senators who has been actively fighting this matter was very active. paritaprevir Elsa Lára Arnardóttir, a member of the council, is on the program for the meeting. This is of particular interest because this is one of the 16 members of the council that has been taken on the committee's agenda. Also growing is the case that out of nine nobles are just two leading members of the committee. I think this check is that we need to start rethinking how things are done through the council. Should we adopt the rule that all cases may come to a church hall and be handled in just the same way? This priorities in the company of one Chairman is unacceptable. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-72.u3	A respectable president. I'll start worrying, and I'll tell you why. paritaprevir The Guðbjartur Hannesson of Hele. I'm a deputy of the General and Education Committee, sitting there all over the past winter, highly fond of the work environment and the handling of every member of this committee, and thinking it is very well controlled. So I must say that I was disappointed to realize that for a few weeks, the committee's siege situation is about an opportunity for the chairman of the Committee to set the matter on schedule to handle it. Away from the individual senators'position on the matter as such, this is not the practice we want to see developing in the council. Hv. paritaprevir " While this case may have been the record record of 16 members of Congress, " said Guðbjartur Hannesson, "at least 16 members of the Parliament had not received so much as one guest visit. In winter, and certainly even further looking. So I make comments. Senator, I think this method is most reprehensible and it is a considerable task to restore the spirit of cooperation that has been employed by the committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-72.u4	To answer these questions, health ministers, industrial and commercial ministers, social and housing minister, marine and agricultural minister, environmental and resource minister, local minister and educational and cultural minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-72.u5	A respectable president. I asked the highest. Last night the Minister of the Interior Minister on the key bill twice, and he didn't get any answers. I reviewed her answer to the Minister during the last term on the key bill and now would like to add one state minister's declaration to the party council meeting of the Independence Party in March 2012 on the key bill. So I want to reiterate my question to the Minister of the Interior: Will she submit the key bill to the General? Now it may be understood that the minister has been in office for a short while, but the highest. A lawyer who knows the key, was a senator, discussed the matter here, and issued a statement as the vice president of the Independence Party. Both the Independence Party and the forwarding party promised in the campaign that they'd validate the key bill. Many people who are in great trouble have hopes that they will be done. I'm calling for the highest. A minister simply answers the question in the middle of the ideal period whether the promise is to be done or not. I don't have a requirement at the highest. Minister on this subject, she didn't promise me this, but those in the position of needing this bill, and her team and colleagues promised it two years ago, must insist on whether or not she's going to deliver the case. There may also be special reason to ask about this after the newscast today. Now, of course, there is growing concern that we can reimburse the debt of the homes. Of course, it would be an important guarantee for the homes of the country if the law had been set aside that the same situation would not come up again, which I believe was a mistake for us at the General Assembly, that people over the country could be in a position to be overbrowed by their homes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-72.u6	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. This is true, and it does not have to be said that the key method was one of the ways that independent persons spoke about during their last term and was also part of the debt checks I discussed at a convention meeting in 2012. All of this was in searching for ways to help in debt. Then, in addition, as a member of the General Assembly, I did what I could to support the government in the affairs that led to the help of the homes, and that was done by the whole body of Congress. In the meantime, the Independence Party, and all classes, have entered the election and formed a government. I was not in that campaign, and I was not in a political position at the time. Then, in the government, that conclusion was reached, such as why. A senator well knows how to deal with debt, a so - called correction method. At that time, we were independent, and we have worked accordingly. That's why I can say what. At this point, there is no bill in the Ministry of Internal Affairs to handle key issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-72.u7	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for clear answers. However, these were more than depressions. V.E.G. Minister of the state of the state, Ólöf Nordal, vice president of the Independence Party, said at a party council meeting that the Independence Party would contribute the key bill to the council. Both governments praised this for elections, and then on what do they agree on this? Now this is the decision of the government and something it must have with its voters, but I encourage the Minister and the government to revise this position and at least the intention not to make the same mistakes that were made in the emergency law when the currency officials are removed and to ensure the interest of their households by freezing the insurance or by ensuring a key bill or by some other means that their homes will not be brought back to the disastrous ruin they suffered after the 2008 events and then the council failed to protect them from the consequences that followed. [[The president calls.]] Don't let it happen again, when you're releasing a currency head, that your homes are taking over. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-72.u8	V.E.G. President. I agree with that. A senator's success in coping with violence is of utmost importance. The work has been done for a long time, and, of course, people struggle with it. There are a number of aspects of this matter that need to be taken care of, especially with the results for the homes of the country. We are still working on that, and of course we will not be viewed as having a hard time with the homes. I think it must lie down, and it has also been declared repeatedly, like a whale. A senator of course knows. It is important for the Icelandic population that it succeeds, and again and again, it is vital that we succeed in building the economy with full weight.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-72.u9	V.E.G. President. I will continue to discuss my home, but in some other way. Visitors are among the big things that burn on people. In the past few months, anyone who has observed something in the media may not have missed the challenges of housing, especially for young people and low incomes. It is not overhistory, I think, that the proclamation of government policy in these matters is to be expected. The Constitution presents four basics from the highest level. A social and housing minister related to housing, two that were to appear in the fall and two that were to be present this spring, however, they are not yet consumed. So I ask the highest. Minister of society and housing what the situation is on these bills, whether or not the Minister will submit one of these bills to this council and then each one.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-72.u10	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir It's Thor Þóra's Árnadóttir for the inquiry. The Constitution suggests that there will be four bills, a bill for a change in rent, a bill for housing partnerships, a bill for housing projects, a bill for housing laws, and a bill for housing reform. These bills are pretty far along. We will soon start a consultation course with tenants, with tenants. We've had a great deal of consultation with the European Union on the issues involved, including that rent payments will pass from the rural communities to the state. Most important, we've had quite a few discussions with the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs. Clearly, these bills cannot be submitted without ensuring financial support for the changes to be made. This is also because, as part of the proposals that were present to shape new housing improvements, it suggests that interest improvements that are being made under financial and economic ministers will be joined by tenures that have been in the hands of the rural community. It's clear that the social and housing minister doesn't bring the interest benefits, but the secretary of finance and economics. I hope that in the following days, we will arrive at a conclusion on this matter and, of course, that the delay we have to make the effort.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-72.u11	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Social and housing minister for the answers. To be sure, it is positive to hear that there is a communication process and that it is working to ensure that financial support is in harmony with these laws. As I said earlier, many people are waiting for a government policy to become clear. I encourage it to the highest. A minister to speed things up as much as possible as he can, of course, work hard because a lot of people depend on a better system that will be available to people with low incomes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-72.u12	A respectable president. I appreciate that. In addition, it might be noted that this too has been called after the unions. Not long ago, an article was published by the president of the BSRB, where these scenes were passed. I think everyone here is aware how important it is that we present these bills. I just reiterate what I said, but these bills cannot be submitted without being financed. That's why we're having a conversation with the financial and economic secretary about how much you can put in this package. I hope for a conclusion in the next few days as far as it goes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-72.u13	A respectable president. I'd like to go to the highest. Internal Minister for Preoperative Research Permissions. The minister has recently informed herself that she would like to discuss whether to provide special authority for the premeditated authorities as it is called, in some respects, to the wish or advice that such documents would be needed in the state police opinion that terrorism and other massive attacks are in danger. This discussion is now designated innovation, but it is not new in the council or in the community. Then you have to say, as it is in my heart - and you also hear during the discussion that many people worry about human rights when it comes to police research. It is also only unclear what is meant by the term pre-active research permissions and in what way it is thought for what is already available, i.e. that research is based on a logical suspicion, which may be a question of how well it is defined. I'd like to ask the minister if she intends to present a bill in this direction. Is she merely calling for a discussion and what plan will be the highest? Minister of this discussion? Also, I ask, Is it not necessary for us to consider freedom of the individual and of the human rights, not just when it comes to the premeditated case, but as well as the existing authority?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-72.u14	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for opening this case. I have recently said officially that I think it is necessary for us in Iceland to open up the security issue on police authority, which they should be, especially from the principle that here we call on the freedom of the citizens for word and vein, and then the necessary security to sustain it here in a country that also turns to the freedom of the citizens, that they are safe in their country. This is a very delicate line and something I think is very important for us to talk on broad ground. I have been interested in starting such discussions at the General Assembly, and therefore I have a report on national and national security in which I am going to present the rights and security grounds which are compatible with those and any authority of the police, how things are handled in our major neighboring countries, the North countries, and put on the table, and not least the material that a body of Congress can discuss. As a result, we will see what the next steps will be. There's no plan at this stage at the State Department to write any bill. What I've been particularly interested in calling out is this discussion, and it's impossible to keep unless we have some material to talk about. I think the role of the State Department is to provide that information. I even expect that we will be able to complete this report so that the discussion can be started at this council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-72.u15	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I stress that the debate tends to go pretty fast. I'll agree with the highest. Minister, I think there's a lot of room for us in this discussion and there's still a lot left. Unfortunately, both what we have seen in neighboring countries have led to a lot of going into a gray area, but we have also known that the authorities have the authority they have already covered lines that at least the public in Iceland do not want to cross, i.e. In the past, when it comes to listening, even political. I'm stressing this human rights dish, that we're going to talk it through these two human rights at the highest rate. A minister speaks of, on the other hand, the individual's human rights and the community. [[The president calls.]] We live in Iceland in a climate of peace, lack of warfare, and general agreement with our main institutions. [[The president calls.]] I think it's important that we keep it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-72.u16	A respectable president. This is especially why I believe it is urgent that we discuss this on material grounds, but we do not get involved in calling on, as I have wanted to say, in the media about certain terms that are vague in the minds of men. I think it's a good thing that it happens in a paper form. Then, as I say, men from things to talk, and it can be a very important way of doing things in the future when we determine if further action is needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-72.u17	President. I'd like to continue a case that I raised in the council's work yesterday and ask for the highest. Social and Homing Minister on what to do with bill inputs to review law No. 9/2014, a financial aid to people who are going into bankruptcy. It is clear in the law that they will review before the end of 2014. Then, actually, I think a respectable president, maybe we're beginning to commit a crime here now that we haven't done it yet, but maybe it's a bit much in the year. But I would like to ask the minister what this is all about, and especially in view of the fact that the law has not produced the results of many of us who approved them here, we thought that they would because more than half of those who received this assistance were rejected. Let us be prepared that these are people who are very bad, who see no other way out than to go bankrupt. Now it was the highest. The minister of the last council was very zealous for those who had a debt problem. Now it is discovered that the key bill does not appear as she recommended, it must disappoint her. This process does not work, and it does not suggest a reexamination. I'd like to ask you, when does that bill come out?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-72.u18	A respectable president. As indicated by the words "woe. " paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir was suggested that these legislation be reviewed. We've both been thinking of reviewing these legislation and the payment legislation as a whole. I believe that there is good reason for reviewing both of these laws, especially because of the changes the council decided to make on the initials when they were submitted where the conditions to go through payment and to receive financial support were met. It has helped us to see, in the study of the creditors, that those who have been contacted by the Agency, those who have received the resources available, have, in effect, met the requirements, appear to be as content as people can be under difficult circumstances that force people to seek such help. Of course, those who have been denied, both the financial support mentioned here, and the need for payment - these people are very unhappy and are still face - to - face with financial problems. So I think it's very important to wear this. I've been with employees in Norway, since we've been looking at their experience. They were, in part, a pattern for these laws. We are also reviewing the many comments that have been received by a committee of payment reforms and also in the profession of a credit agent. At any rate, it was my desire to look further at trying to help those people who had a serious problem with the crash, their completion, and even whether it was right to eliminate these regulations in some way. Unfortunately, it has not worked out.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-72.u19	A respectable president. There's obviously a lot of thinking and thinking about the Ministry of Social and Homing, because all kinds of things are being considered, but nothing happens. I'd like to ask the Minister, because she was supposed to decide if there were any disagreements with the agent's money, whether she got many cases at her table because of this financial help. It was earlier today to the highest. A minister would still be considering housing laws. I'd like to reiterate, sir, that it is one thing that we here in the Senate hall are impatient, but all the people with problems must be intolerant. Compared to that, and for the elk of what? A senator in his last term, to my surprise, she could have been in this office for two years without anything happening.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-72.u20	A respectable president. I can't quite say what to say. A senator, she probably understands, that nothing happened. However, I would like to point out that I am here, among other things, dealing with legislation that could be said to have passed through the council but clearly. A senator has been criticizing that his efforts were inadequate. I went through it in my answer. In some cases, members of the Parliament were faced with the need to rewrite bills because a minister came in with so much force that they almost did not qualify for treatment at the council. I have felt very important that when a minister brings up a matter, they can be completed and settled, not only for this party but also for that matter. In addition, I'd like to point out a general body of Congress to a bill that went into a review procedure with the Minister of the Interior, February 6th. They are about to change the trial status of tenants and shorten the expiration deadline for forced sale, take it down to two years. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Would it be interesting to hear a senator's opinion of this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-72.u21	Mr. President. I'm interested in having a place to speak at the highest. For example, in 2014, a marine dignitary and agricultural minister contributed that by the day, the company published its own business of HB Grandi. Surely, HB Grandi is not just any fishing company, that is, the highest fishing business in the country and one of the most powerful companies, but it is in the mixed business, both in the open water and body fish fishing and development, and so its contribution must be to some extent a message on how this article works. It was a flourishing year at the club. The cost was increased by some 200 million, yet it was already high. The company makes up with 5.5 billion profits. The performance, EBITDA, is 7.5 billion, 7,500 million. K., growing around 700 million. It is interesting to compare the fact that the pay of HB Granda's hunting fees fell by exactly 700 million. K. between-year, i.e. 35%. They were about 1.8 billion years old. In 2013 but down to about 1.1 billion in 2014 In other words, the future grows some 700 million, exactly the same number that paid for fishing costs. 700 million. K. is transported by a national resource to HB Granda owners who do so well with themselves and pay themselves for another year in a row of about 2.7 billion. ... infringement. The owners of the HB Granda have been high for 6 billion years. two years of profit, but the nation is far less than 3 billion in hunting costs. What interesting facts! So I want to ask the highest. seafaring minister: wasn't overpowering, at least in the case of the big companies, lowering the fishing costs so much, taking so much money away from the nation because of the common resource? It's not wise to go to the highest. In view of this, Mr. President, do these remainder figures have in mind when he puts up with a bill for fishing next year in view of that also, Mr. President, that it all indicates that the year 2015, if anything, will be even better? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-72.u22	A respectable president. I thank you for the inquiry that points to the joyous fact that companies in this country are doing well. They are the basis for prosperity, innovation, and increased prosperity. I'm pointing out that this particular company, like what. In fact, a client mentioned, one of our most powerful fishing companies, is in enormous investments. I suppose one ship is an investment cost of one four billion, apart from the investment in many parts of the country. I noticed why. A senator did not mention the salary paid by the company every year, much less the tax. It reminds me that last year, the entire fishing route paid for the public expenses of less than 30 billion. It is interesting to compare it with other employment practices. If the current government had not placed on the special bank tax, what would financial companies be paying for official fees? It would be interesting to see it in the light of profits in that sector. Of course, we should rejoice in our success. At the same time, we should remember that there are 620 fishing - road companies in the country. I have met many of those who have said: " If only they had continued in that course! In fact, when he was in the government and directed that there be a super-price of hunting, we all had gone under. Then we would have been stuck with five Grand Prixs in the country. It's not my will. I want this 620 company to thrive in Iceland and have every opportunity. This certainly means that some companies are making a lot of money where economics have become abundant in this article. They are then the most powerful enterprises in innovation, production, and investments that will contribute immensely to society's future income. And I'd like to remind you that if I remember correctly, there's a HB Grand in a community community society and I expect the interest that goes out, without me counting it, is no greater than if these people had put their money in something other than the seabed, they'd also need some interest in them there. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-72.u23	Mr. President. At least it is clear that one of HB Granda's owners does not have to worry about the difference, although the results will be mixed in whales over the next few years. It seems to me that the profits of the HB Granda that make it enough to feed them for decades, even if the harvest is low. I was talking about how much the payment of large companies is clearly high in these areas. It's good for them to do well, yes, but we're discussing here the question of what is the fair price of these companies for the purpose of the common resource of the nation. That's what we have. There is no problem with implementing the fishing costs to take into account the mixed products of the enterprises, that they make more money than the smaller ones, etc. The average premium has to be that some companies have this tremendous profits that should certainly be more valuable to their access to this resource. That's fair and right. HB Grandi has the highest fishing authority of all companies in Iceland and is the largest company in that sense. It has the largest access to the country's common resource. We can see from these figures that the company could easily and should provide more for their use of the resource. [[The president calls.]] The nation's resources are being transferred to HB Granda owners, and it was increased by 700 million. K. Last year, which is exactly the same number as the fishing costs dropped. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-72.u24	A respectable president. It is wrong that a resource is being transferred from the nation to some particular party. However, in the past government it was this way that the curses she put on the various companies, the 610 that weren't on the top of the 10 list, which can't pay more than I think we may agree on, make it possible that they were giving up. That is why we accepted it and soon changed the arrangement into a new elected period. The result? Yes, the result was that the large areas of the seawater industry that are currently successful paid much more than the previous government, which imposed the budgets with a great deal of weight on the 610 companies except those large ones. That's what we did at the beginning of the season. It is very important that in public pressures and when men are paying a price for access to the resource, for rent or use, there is a measure of equality. In turn, we have tax regulations and other laws in the country to pursue other profits. As far as I can see, the seabed companies, especially this particular company, pay considerable things here in public funds. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-72.u25	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for taking care of this special matter. I would like to emphasize this here in the beginning that the situation in service to the elderly is not the responsibility of the present minister but, rather, the cooperation work of many, and the outcome of the seminary develops over a longer period of time. It is vital that we discuss the minister's ambition to improve the quality of service to the elderly during the two years that remain in this ideal period. During the next 15 years, the number of Icelanders is increasing by 50 years and over. So far, we've had some bad luck ensuring sufficient supply of first-class nurses. The question is, Will we spend enough money to meet the huge increase needed for a nursing home in the next 15 years? So I ask the minister about his plans in this matter, about waiting time, and what requirements he considers proper in it. I also ask him about the accents and the different needs of territory. Here in the capital area, it is estimated that in the next two years, there will be at least 200 new nurses in order to stay gone. New projects have been fixed only on its Seltiannes and in Kopavogi, with less than 100 spaces. The newcomer is not on the program here in Reykjavík, where the need is greatest and seems to be increasing as rapidly as possible. Here, too, there are such places as Southnes, where the list of waiting has become, I think, 56 people, after such talks. We also know that we have been trying to increase the number of monomers, thus improving the quality of housing in nursing homes, and I ask the minister how this works. Service to the elderly is not just concrete, it is also a matter of content of services and quality. I ask the minister how the quality requirements for service to the elderly are guaranteed. Various accounts we have heard of services in the aging world raise persistent questions in the way we secure it and then follow it in our first - quality ministry. Are the standards set out in order for this service? What are the requirements for things such as bathing, rehabilitation, etc.? Today, we are so happy to have moved many to serve in those places, and some come from foreign lands. I ask them if they will receive adequate training and shoes before starting work at aging agencies to handle their interactions and the important services involved. I'm especially asking because there's been an increase in the fact that this kind of service has been offered and awarded to the lower bidder. Then I think that there is an even greater reason why the training workers have been given to carry out the vital work being done. In November of last year, a review of the Kingdom News was published, and I encourage people to examine the results of this report. A public review encourages a service contract with every nursing home in the country, and I ask the highest. Ministers, therefore, have the right to define clearly the type of service to be performed, the quality of the ministry. The report cannot help but be ignored. I'm asking a minister if he agrees with the opinion that we do not have enough clear quality requirements for the many different operators in this field. As we discuss the quality of our service to the elderly, we also need to consider how quality control is conducted. I ask the minister if he believes that we need to make adjustments in order to improve our service and expand our service, to look to parts like the confidence of a confidantic system, such as the labor movement, or the rights care system, as those used in the case of disabled persons. Is there a need for the office of an agent of the elderly? Or how does a minister support that we can improve our monitoring and maintenance of the delicate and vital service to the elderly? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-72.u26	A respectable president. Thank you. venerating the discussion he calls for. This is an urgent discussion, needs a subject discussed here. Surely, these are many questions. One inquirer has and is meaningful and brings with him all the main points of the emphasis that the Senate needs and then the administration in the years to come. These factors too are vital today. The question here is, How do I want to approach the source of the subject? There is good evidence of growth, and it certainly is as if members of the council know a very financial group. The basic cost of a single clinic is about 30 million. K. and the cost of the same space of 10 million. K. That's why I'm talking about a rough record, so I'm getting close to a question. A senator, to evaluate the need for new nurses until 2020, has a range of 4,80,510 new spaces. I haven't had an assessment of the need for the next 15 years. What is primarily involved is this most urgent need, as well as the need for urgent attention in the capital area, the area of the Aarhus, and the Northern Parliament. These are the three main areas where the greatest need is for the next five years of the development of new strains. For a waiting period of hospital space, there are two ways to evaluate it. On the one hand, the latency of those enrolled in need after nurses, the individuals may have applications in more than one place, but the waiting period for those who have entered the nursing room, has been evaluated in this way, at the end of 2014, about 82 days. Indeed, there are very different needs. The capital area is one, and then we can take the seven medical examples. There are very variable needs, although in one medical situation the needs may be so that the high need will correspond with all the nurses who are being driven in the country. We've got less than 12 of you today. a man over 80 years old. We run over 2,600 nurses, and there is an increase in the number of persons left, so we need to act. My plans lead us to clean up and work into meeting the founding structure in the three areas I mentioned earlier. There is, in part, the number of money already available, including In the wealth of the elderly, for this building, it is not enough at this time. We are building now by a so - called lease route according to plans laid the foundation for 2008, rejecting projects in 2009, a building of 11 nurses along the way of rent. It's been more than a few things to be said. We have yet to negotiate with Hafnarfjörður. Seltananes is on the move, but little has moved in Hafnarfjördur and Kópavogur. There is a new growth of space in Kapovogi, as is Seltananes, and none in Hafnarfjördur. What needs to be received is a structure program for these three areas, and it is being constructed. Here's a question for a renewal of strains. According to figures I have, 85% of the population of nurses in the country by the end of 2012 were in the country at the end of a town. Since then, there have been 60 farms in Garða, 30 in Mosfellsville, and we'll see farms being used in Bolungarvík, in Isafjordur, and in the River Valley this year. This is all in accordance with the plans that have been run since 2008/2009. I'll then try to get to the other aspects of a query. A senator in my second speech. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-72.u27	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. The advisor for starting this important discussion. As he mentioned, in the years to come, the nation's ages are changing, and the elderly are going to grow. There is already a problem, for there is a shortage of nurses, and it will just increase. I have reason to believe that we have to spend extra funds in order to increase the number of nurses. As is the situation today, where there is a lack of space, it is highly expensive to us because the lack of nurses causes accumulation and carpeting of space in hospitals where the cost is many times a day compared to that of a nursing home. I am concerned, as is the case with this discussion, that when a service is offered, there is an attempt to save as much money as possible and that it affects the quality of the service and the training of employees. There's something that I think we need to make up for or that says make sure that we're not going to be. Finally, I would like to point out that there is also a lack of medical care for younger people, people around 60 years of age. Sadly, as we read in News magazine this morning, it is too much for younger ones to be in leagues with people who may be in their 90's and who have very little in common in their age. [[The president calls.]] We also need to care for the welfare of this group.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-72.u28	A respectable president. I thank the advocate for this urgent discussion. I would like to use the time to quote a report published at the beginning of November of last year, entitled Driver's Station and Nurse's Fund in 2013. This is an extensive and well - versed report, and there must be some of the basis for the discussion over nursing procedures and the rest of these matters. For one thing, it is stated that in 2013 nursing facilities cost 23 billion people. In many lands, there have been business problems, and the State has often helped. The report notes that it is not always the proper way to find that when a nursing home is at a angle, the Kingdom will come and add. The situation in 2013 was that of 13 positive homes, a negative outcome of 32 homes. That's not good enough. There are some very good points in this report, e.g. it is noted that the Ministry of Health has to cooperate with the surgeon's office to further determine the need for nursing and to ensure that a uniform procedure is followed. This should prevent those who are able to use simpler and inexpensive resources from entering a nursing home. It is also not good if we have different circumstances in our homes, it is just so hipshaps how the service depends on the community in which one lives. The follow-up then needs to be improved by specifying minimal services in these households. Government officials are also advised that they did not count the cost of this minimal service. We have considered this report only on the budget board. If she hasn't already set up an executive and surveillance committee, she's going to do so, but I assume she's also been discussed on a welfare committee. [[The president calls.]] If not, I recommend that a health committee take this report carefully. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-72.u29	V.E.G. President. I'd like to thank you for the antiquated discussion. It is both needed and needed. We are at a critical time. Clearly, in the years to come, the percentage of older ones will rise, and the elderly will, of course, need to be sure that they are well - mannered. Hence, we must follow a clearer course than is now in this category of languages. There's a shortage of nurses all over the country. In particular, I'd like to mention all the South Sea Districts, Reykjavík and Northern Parliament. There has been a significant debate about the subject recently in the media on how the equipment and care of the elderly, but I would like to say this here in the Public Assembly, so that I believe that the managers and nurses will care for their household with the best of their ability and care, but I might consider improving quality management even more in those places. We need to add nurses, that's for sure. We also need to improve equipment and make sure that older ones receive the best care. All of this costs money. The situation is that the elderly are in poor condition, since the budget has recently been new for business and maintenance rather than building up more space. So we are confronted with a lack of money, and it must be solved. We also see the need to establish long-term nursing planning programmes for at least Twenty. The government of Sigmundur Davíð, the Gunnlaugsson of Gunoll, has shown willingness to do so by adding substantial amounts of money to this last category of funds, but better if possible. A program on the construction of aging institutions for the next five years in the Ministry of Health is under way, and that work should soon be completed. Even if there are details, surely all of us agree that we must improve the services and equipment of the elderly further. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-72.u30	A respectable president. I may have a different question about this subject. I often find it so strange that you think about it with older people and the institutions we've created to make what it would be like from the individual's freedom to choose. With freedom, I mean economic freedom because there is no real freedom if economic freedom is not there. What would be the situation with older citizens? How would it be if families had the choice and freedom to care for their parents so that their children could live in homes with parents and grandparents, as when we look back? I feel that we are so quick to build institutions where we bring senior citizens here, and then our children are in another institution because we are so impatient at work. Þórðarson did well. He called us public labour force ▪ I'm asking you, is that us? Is that what we want? I'd like us to take that discussion and think about how a community we want to live in, how it would be if we took the money that goes into all these systems and we were going to pay them out to individuals, created economic freedom in Iceland so that people could choose and we could see what people wanted to do. Has anyone ever asked an older citizen how they want to live?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-72.u31	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar for starting this discussion. This has been quoted in a report by Government Review, a very good report on fractures in the nursing home system, and is most important in terms of the need for services, quality standards, and monitoring. And it is good to put this into context with the discussion that is now being conducted in the medical system, since there are so many business plans as there are nursing homes in the capital area. If we look at the conditions in these areas, there is a shortage of space, quality standards, and lack of surveillance. Of course, this has to do with the lack of financial resources in the litigation party. I think it would be nice to use the discussion to remind you that the quality of health care and quality of it is not primarily about the business plans but about the money we are prepared to place in the litigation classes. There's a lot of space in the capital area, and Reykjavíkurburg is waiting for an opportunity to start building 88 compartments on Plain Road. So we warned about the budget of the elderly, who are now being used for business, not investments, in new households. For example, if we were to look at homes that were built along the way of rent, it would be wise for us to do so. The park community itself, running the nursing home, because they thought it more practical and better for the country society to have their own business on their own. So I want to use this opportunity to call for more money to the seminary and to focus on that priorities instead of focusing on the management plan. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-72.u32	A respectable president. Yes, the discussion is needed. I agree with what. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen, to consider the individual's choice of freedom of choice when it comes to this assignment as well as many others, the freedom of the elderly and the sick, the way he or she wishes to serve and where he would like it. There must be a review of the trend for the establishment of all objects, all aspects of human life. It would be wise to consider whether this is the turning point, when speaking of a lot of space for people who grow up and become ill, a question of being more integrated from community services and household care. Well, then I'll just say it, tops. Health Minister, that the ICU will return to the province to facilitate integration with closer service to the citizens. The local brothers are often better equipped to evaluate where the service is most urgent and how it is to be administered or carried out. I also want to discuss in this discussion, a respectable president, that there are individuals here to discuss, people with different needs and a different need for service. We cannot see the need to set up an institution that has predetermined the way the service should be done because there are individuals who come in for different services depending on their health and social status. That's why I'd like us to discuss this from prowess to establishments, and I have to say that I've never had too much faith that the state could do things better than individuals.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-72.u33	Mr. President. This truly is a need for discussion, and whatever may be said of the individual's choice of freedom, this is a case for which the State is responsible. That's what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir also knows. [[Up front.]] There is reason to remind you that these matters were under attack during the last term, in the time of that government. It was built up a new nursing home, or it was enlarged in a single area of 8◯10, if I recall correctly, 11 places. [[Foreground on: 11.]] It was an investment of hundreds of millions of dollars. In many areas the need was being corrected, the much improved situation in a number of communities. True, many were being replaced with an unsatisfactory old facility in modern apartments, so the number of nurses did not become the corresponding number of people who had to do what was being done. What about the rest? As noted above, it is estimated that in the capital area, one of 200 new nurses is missing. In Akureyri, the number of nurses in recent years has decreased, but it is the country where there is the largest population growth outside the southwest corner. The same can be said of the City of Germany. It contains a number of nurses deep under the greatest need, and we can mention a structure like Deepavog, where there is no room for care in a 500 - mile - long community that is hundreds of miles away from the next comparable service. In modern times, people who need such services must make long - distance failures and cannot spend their final years in their homeland. It's unacceptable. Therefore, it is urgent to gather the necessary forces for a significant effort in these materials. This must be one of the priorities of services to the elderly and within the health and social systems within the next few years. Finally, I have to state that I'm very unhappy with the fact that nothing is happening in the transfer of the elderly to the countryside. It is to be completed so that all close - up services can be integrated with people in their own home, i.e. for the rural population. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-72.u34	A respectable president. I thank the advocate for this need for this discussion. I was also excited to hear the emphasis of a minister, which course he will take in these matters. While we are discussing here in particular a nurse's offer, which certainly is not good because the nation grows old and we have to build up, I agree with it for two years. The council here has spoken, the Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir and Halldóra Mogensen, that just because the nation is getting old so fast, I don't think we can keep up with the development of nurses for all these people. We must think only outside the box and also out of individual choice. What can we do in a different way? I'm calling home service. It needs to be much more flexible and adaptable on an individual basis. It is terrible to think, for example, that a married couple may be separated when others have to go to a nursing home if they can do better in home service. This too is what needs to be considered. Then I'll say something. paritaprevir About the cost of our present life, Þóra's teenage Árnadóttir is involved. V.E.G. Of course, the cost will be discussed by a minister, but what are we already paying for when older ones go to the hospital because they are not able to get into a nursing home? They are far more expensive. Has a minister made an analysis or an assessment of what we were able to save out there by setting more money in the development of nurses?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-72.u35	A respectable president. Clearly, there will be an increase in the number of nurses for the elderly up to 1,700 in the next 15 years and the cost for this is about 54 billion. Of this number, there are about 1,100 in the capital area. These are the facts that have not been exaggerated during the discussion. Nothing particularly popular is discussing the issues of the elderly, a group that makes small demands, and is never loud. Such groups are not at all high when it comes to capital or priorities. During the decades that followed, the nation's ages are rapidly changing. Thus, the number of 67 years of age or older is expected to increase by more than 26 thousand over the next 15 years, i.e. about 71% from today's. The number of individuals aged 80 and over is estimated to increase by less than 6,600, by 55%. These major changes require different and different attentions on health matters, since the needs of this growing group need to be considered. Most families know the problems that arise when elderly relatives need to be placed in a nursing home. On average, there are about 250 people on the waiting list for such spaces, with a mean waiting period of about four months. Unchanged, this time will be greatly extended. The loss of the previous few years of medical donations to the elderly has been poor, the service has been impaired, and the cost of medicine has increased. This must be changed, and this is the current government to change. There is a great need to strengthen the quality of your home service and support. Most agree on the need to provide increased medical resources that are faced with increased pressures in the years when the ministry must take the least into account that the nation is growing older. At that time, nursing procedures have been difficult, and daily expenses have been too low. My home has been particularly difficult. A clear policy toward the future is needed in this series of issues. How will we deal with the fact that over the next 15 years, the number of people over 76 years will increase by 71%, by 26 thousand? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Will the State itself stand for the construction of nursing homes and other necessary services, or will the private people take in more building than is now? [[The president calls.]] We need clear answers to that question. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-72.u36	A respectable president. People in great need for nursing have chosen to ask for a nursing home, but we have not met that need. It would be great to be able to offer these people freedom of choice, but as the situation is now, we simply invite a waiting list, and they will continue to extend for the next 15 years. Like what? paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson points out the need for investment in new nurses for the next 15 years near the same amount of research and treatment that we have not had in the past 15 years to attack. It is clear, therefore, that the council needs to provide health - care secretary's funds for far more building up. There are also other resources to be stressed, and I'm sorry that things such as the home nursing team in northern society, cooperation with rural communities in integrating different services, have not continued as we used to, and that we are not doing more of that. I hope a minister will help us to understand how we can improve the quality of our ministry because the quality of our ministry is also an urgent solution. I understand the highest. A minister so that his emphasis is on increasing the cost of tenders in Reykjavík, in the area of the year, and in the Northern Parliament, where the shoe is most bent. I'm asking the highest. A minister on the big new project on Plain Road, whether he intends to initiate this project before the season ends, and whether it is not necessary that we see within a very long time the actual projects follow the good words that come from us politicians from all classes in the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-72.u37	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion. In many ways, it's very good. I also thank you for the understanding that members of the council have shared in this discussion. There are many challenges in these subjects. One thing I want to say in my second talk is that of people's services and rights. We now have the status that Iceland's Medical Insurance has this project in hand since 1st January. has the law to work on service contracts with aging institutions. That's a project in preparation. There's supposed to be negotiations about people's rights in the homes. To date, it is quite true that some members of the council have been overreached, that institutions believe that they have the resources that the Council decides on the budget of each year, they belong in this year to 27 billion, but it is not the rights of individuals who are being laid down. We need to explain this show. With regard to home care, it is vital that we strengthen her integration and community service. I say with full feet that we should be able to achieve much more cooperation, and I have a discussion in the planning of the Ministry to communicate with rural communities on aspects of health care and community home care. When asked about the individual projects here, if they get to work before the end of this terms, I intend that this year we will start planning for the next at least five years, and it will be introduced in due course. I don't want to take a stand on individual projects or projects as follows. Rather, it will soon reveal which projects will be started.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-72.u38	V.E.G. President. Here we take votes on bill to correct the change in power law, no. 65/2003, all that is to be done and that is, in effect, all about ensuing 22 gr. European Commission's 2009 power directive, which could be said, in effect, to have been better at earlier activities. There's definitely a lot of things in my opinion that will improve. There's gonna be an offer for more open and destructive careers. In advance, I wrote down on the committee's opinion of the majority part and stood by it. I think there are many benefits, although I have known that several things needed correction and adjustments and have mentioned them both at meetings and here at the General Meeting in a speech. Among other things, it turns to whether we should replace the Power Institute in the Management Board, but the principle is that although I have not been able to stay here yesterday, we have gone from Reykjavík to Reykjavík, i.e. Húsavík, at a meeting, I noticed the cooperation and reconciliation that was right here yesterday after a bitter and violent argument. [[The president calls.]] I hope there is a mutual understanding and that we can make more peace with this and, most importantly, but with the members of the United States, we are going to sit with our vote now, hoping that the changes to make will make it possible for us to support this in the 3rd district.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-72.u39	A respectable president. As mentioned earlier, we are here to vote for a change in electricity law, a system plan. As we have seen here in the detailed discussion of the matter in a few days, there is a considerable review of the matter. That work is being done in a good way, and it is a common understanding of what the project is, as it were. We need to see what comes out of that job, but I'll bet that work is done on both sides and on both sides of the table. It's important. In view of this, I will not oppose the progress of the matter. Of course, it goes to a committee between the 2nd and 3rd. But we senators of the left green sit by this vote. Then I also want to assume that the waning motion on my committee party section is being drawn through 3rd.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-72.u40	A respectable president. I account for the votes of the senators Bear's future in this round. As we have seen, much still remains to be done in this bill, which is common now, after much discussion, needs to be corrected. I'm so happy that the results have come, and we will continue working on the job committee, but we need to see the outcome. This time we're going to sit next to the money.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-72.u41	A respectable president. I had a 1st. this matter of conversation with the highest. Minister for the planning custody of rural society. I still feel it is vital to emphasize that the self - custody of a organizational organization is mostly respected and highly respected. In this case, I still want to emphasize it. I sometimes feel that the lawgiver is going a little far in legislation against the existing organizational laws. I'm not gonna stand in the way of this bill, but I'm gonna do this issue and I've done a lot of things in which I'm talking about taking the planning custody of my rural society.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-72.u42	A respectable president. I want this vote, thank you. The General Meeting for this fine discussion and the Parliament for a discussion on this important subject. I'm also glad that it's okay for the rest of the case. This will be followed by the committee, which has been defined and defined as the points for which men feel the need for further consideration. I'm happy and hoping that we'll probably finish this case in the highest and vastest reconciliation because it was the purpose of the bill, of putting these matters and this work order into order that we can, as many of us as possible to enjoy it and continue to ensure the electronic security throughout the country for the benefit of all of us, so I thank the Senate for this payment.
