ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u1	Mr. President. We're going to continue talking about bill for 2016's budget. It is possible to talk for a very long time about the budgets and other financial laws laid down by this government. The focus of the government's opposition in trying to achieve some adjustments and reforms in this evil bill is, in general, to meet the needs of the Land Hospital, to improve the interests of the elderly, and to improve their terms, as the other members of this country choose, and that the Government will not be cut down on trog as it seems to be. It seems that the case of the use fee next year at the RUS still stands firm in the government. V.E.G. A minister of education has described the will to pay the price of 17,800. next year, but don't drop to 16,400k. as expected and said that this is a major cut-off in this cultural institution that has followed us in 1930. In the beginning, I'm going to discuss only the topic of Our Kingdom News because I'm getting a lot of heat from it and from other countries, and people have called attention to it, including the U.S. Good friends of the State Radio, how important it is that the government radio is well funded so that it will rise under its great cultural and security role. I think the media that would be more poor if the result is that the state radio is going to get so badly out of these budgets that a major cut-off on a domestic program is needed. It is a very serious thing for a democracies to weaken this institution, which is a democratic site for political exchange and neutral reporting. Government directors, Björg Eva Erlendsdóttir, Friðrik Rafnsson, and Árnason have written on these matters, and I think it's proper to share their thoughts with them. They worry a lot, and I'm going to go over a fist they put together in Visa at dawn. By permission of the President, they say: A large majority of the population feel that the State Radio is part of their existence, culture participation, democratic work, a vision of the world, and that this public radio is going to take us into the future. The people of the land also want to have other effective stations and channels. On a broad range of media sites, on the United Kingdom Radio, to be at a firm and guide, to hold certain obligations to society rather than just their shareholders, a station that has a strong tradition, but which is strong enough and progressive to follow the pulse of a new era. What Iceland's public radio needs to do is financial stability and peace of fundamental values. With regard to financial matters, the nation's major organization, political, professional, and cultural organization, has been holding fast to the elite TV program every day - the national radio for 85 years, television for almost 50 years. There are other winds now. In each of the two parties, some feel that it would be right to reduce the work of the State Radio and even want it dead, except for them as a small station for professionals. In part ideological reasons are involved, and in part they seem to be related to some form of vengeance that no one can understand. These forces are now anti-employing the education and cultural minister's bill that the amount of radio fee will remain the same as it has been. If they stop the bill, the Kingdom Radio will be of significant income, 400 to 1,500 million. K. No advice then is in sight except for severe cuts in pay fees, exposés, and large - scale programs. Runs a public radio can't take that kind of blow. The danger is that television and radio programs would gradually become so bleak that audiences and audiences would decrease, income from advertising, and general support would decrease. The station would gradually become paralyzed - without the will and volume of others to do to all of us the good things the Kingdom News does every day. At the end of this article, these directors of the public call the State Radio to come to the aid of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of New York and Tract Society of New York and Tract Society of New York and Tract Society of New York, U.S.A. I take my heart to the words of these three directors at RUS and express serious concern about this if the price remains at the end of the 17800 k. I don't think every man in the country has any regrets for them to stick to the role of this great cultural institution. As they say, no one knows what we have before we've lost, and it's likely that evolution will be difficult to reverse if, within the government and the government sector, it is successful to weaken so that the Government radio will not have a vision of anything like that. I'd like to then discuss how the government's priorities in terms of government since she took over and, in fact, brought up everybody but perhaps those with something, big business, and big business, huge productions, and others. Little by little, the government has been able to raise the country's public because of its conflicting priorities, and it is very serious to see that society's infrastructure has been in no longer than those three years of illness. The priority order has been a bit out of control. The tax stocks have grown weaker, resulting in the lack of funding for building up and setting priorities, as well as tax relief from the more wealthier and simple regulations, the simple monitoring role with various institutions, and the best - having spells in society, whether rich or big. The energy taxes are to be eliminated by the country's major companies at the end of the year, the wealth taxes were not extended, and the large fishing expenditures were lifted in shelters to correct the fishing fees for smaller and medium-sized productions. It was a long time ago that this was being done. The measures that turned into smaller and medium - sized types were very random and have not returned as planned, but they were flat over everything and used those who have nothing to do with it. It's about education. That group of paintings alone is of great concern, and in reality, education in the country and education is being done by people who really need support and a good access to the ability to educate in their homes. They are attacked by setting limits on studying books in high schools, 25 years of age, and by reducing the number of student levels, which means that schools cannot accept all the students who want it. As a result, people are being expelled from their studies, and if not any better, they will be driven out of their homelands, which will make them countless benefits if they are going to pursue a course of education. The cost of breaking up and paying off in the private sector is high and not everyone can handle it. There's a strange message when you're at the highest. A minister of education will discuss strengthening reads and so on, but such aggressive attacks on the weakest and trying to get an education to strengthen and strengthen their place in the workforce. Since the start of the government, the health system has not rode a fat horse. It has been the same history, surgery, as has been done in the medical system since then. We know that the health system was badly out of collapse, and this was to be one of the priorities of the country's economy, which it is certainly doing. The economic situation is improving, but instead of seeing some real income gains in the state and setting priorities in behalf of the problems that have gone badly out of the fall, the state is so refreshingly cutting down in all its income stocks and reducing taxes that the income share that lies may be based primarily on noncombatation teams, irregular joints such as profit from the Land Bank. It is not good for the future to build on such things if the government's budget does not depend on and is not sustainable. It has been suggested that the state has renounced income since the government's acceptance of over 40 billion except for its priorities. The road system is very weak, and there are tragic examples of patients who need expensive medication that can hardly handle them like cancer patients who are walking in a ward who have to pay from their own pockets high sums, you have heard a number of such cases, and others who have chronic illnesses that are unable to cover high drug payments. This is not to be passed on in a society as successful as we Icelanders are, in fact, in comparison with other countries. There's also trouble with law enforcement in the country. Today, the government sets about 400 million. K. that I remind myself of the group of lawsuits, but I think it's possible that it's merely to face up to and down the fictitious debt, the group of paintings have come to the point where money goes first into it, not to promote the general law - enforcement agencies that are in great need. In many parts of a country where you know it, there are few or few police positions, and even one man on duty, and no one can, of course, be responsible to be alone on duty in a large area. There's no such thing as education plans and planning that's not a good idea for the budget. By the time the government went on to take over the budget, the parish plan was about 400 million. K. Today, there are some 235 million. K. ... andlastyear, it was only 100 million. K. but there was an additional 15 million. K. Of course, it's all too small to get into such a major lawsuit because it's a regional policy in action. There the national body is given an opportunity to work in close surroundings with financial resources and priorities and to use good works. The present government has made the decision to take this into its arms, to place little here and little there, and to divide from some political pot wide and wide across the country. I'm happy with every cent that comes to a greater need in the country, but I also want everyone to sit at the same table, be employed professionally, and the local people will find out how the funds are reimbursed, this is a transparent process that everyone can trust, and they won't get the label that some ball is taking place. I'm sick of this speech about a ballot, that everything that goes out into the country in building will be set up under a ballot. Why is this called a ballot? I think it's us politicians or those politicians who have been teaching the world because they've done things that they don't take into their arms anymore and that they've done something that a man disseminates. They come to politicians with belilistf, the money is handed out, and individual senators are to have some special thanks for this contribution here and there. I don't think that's the way it should be. Each political party's policy and emphasis should be placed, and the groups who want to settle in the country, and that the national part of the country sits at the same level as the country's equal opportunity, should be declared it in a national budget and found out in financial terms what is laid down in such cases. The money is then taken into the channel that has set out to set out like an application plan in this case, using the processes that are very good and democratic and that have made a great deal of pleasure, no matter where people stand. I think the government puts it down on the fact that it still calls on these criticisms of a ball, a ball of fine money if there's any money, some crowns for building up in the country. It is bad for the country to see it done under that sign. It is a disgrace to the government. As has been said, the level of energy paid in the country has been leveled. I'm just gonna be personal at the end of my speech and say that I don't give anything for that kind of equation. I run a home west on the beach, in Sufjörður, that's where I'm paying the bill I've been given on my day to burn and pay the electricity of a 160 square-foot house 400 you've got. K. What would that cost in the capital area? I guess that's about half of it? If it's equal, I don't know what equal is. [[The president calls.]] At least it's not the equation I want to see, but maybe it's equal in the eyes of this government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u2	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir for the speech. It was as expected, her speech was marked by a dissension movement, such as the talks held yesterday and yesterday in this case by members of the former government groups. I'd like to point out that these agents have been in a lot of talk lately. First, I'm going to kill what the senator said at the end of his talk about the cost of energy for homes in the country. I remind you that the senator is part of a group that is more concerned with energy taxation and as a suggestion in this discussion to further increase tax returns on energy. It's like it is. In the beginning, the senator spoke of RUS. I want to take this opportunity and see that there is a foul error on page. 10 of the leading aluminium at the top of the section. Last night I asked the staff of the legal committee for the Commission's opinion to be printed. At the same time, I ask that my 1st, which is also a committee's opinion, under the headings. paritaprevir Harðardóttir new Hardydots, let them print up their views, since there are bad errors about RUS on page 12. 15th Then it's even. I'm a spokesman for good legislation, and everyone knows that it's legal, and that's how it's corrected. I would like to ask the senator: "How much money will be made a year by a proposal that the senator originally made, that radio fee stays between years and years, but will not shrink? " [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u3	Mr. President. Only with RUV, decrease in radio charge from 17,800 bucks. of 16,400k. That's a million and a half million. K. loss of income. As long as everything is being kept in place, it was decided in 2011 that the radio rate would be $18800. and this number is then attached to new radios in March 2013. Under law on the grounds of the 2013 budget, the fee was raised to 19,400k. in accordance with the price raise and other conditions in that budget. Now in December, the price to pay is determined to go to 16400k. in 2016. That's what people are gonna stick to. It just means you break down the state radio and then you have a snooze. Councilmen like Vigdís Hauksdóttir to come forward and say that she wants to break down the State Radio. It is not possible to underestimate the Kingdom News, nor is it possible for the health - care system and the Land Hospital to think that the work is going on just like an anointed machine. There's gotta be something to give up. Hv. A senator says that the previous government has imposed an energy tax. Yeah, in a big company. During the administration, we suggested an equalizing among the public hosts of the industry as part of that equation. No, it wasn't allowed, it was only supposed to be within the network, but the big business was still with that government. 2 billion bucks. energy taxes are to be dropped by big companies because these are the clients of this government or its smallest brothers, to protect and protect them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u4	A respectable president. In 2016 it is estimated that the average radio charge will be 16400. A greater proportion of the budget committees have suggested that the entire radio bill will be submitted, as the current government has been working on it, and began the process of building up the Kingdom News with increases, as shown by a table in the Committee of the greater section on page 5. 10. [[Up front.]] That is different from the history of the former government, which took 500 million out of RUS, 500 million out of business... [[Why was it again?]] [[For example, consider: What happened in 2008?]] I'm sorry, Mr. Honorable President, can you get a sound in the room? 500 million out of business. This government has been returning the radio fee since it began, and it will continue. This is a suggestion because users are more and because of the community income, they're adding favors to the RuV, which will give you the Kingdom News for 60 million dollars. K. between.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u5	Why...?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u6	By the end of 2016, the Kingdom News has received 3,550 million. Dec., more than 3.5 billion. Better. People contact me, thinking that this money should go to the health system or to support poor families, but this is the law, and this government works by law. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u7	Mr. President. Everybody doesn't know what it is, except maybe what. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir that we crashed in 2008.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u8	...scrap.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u9	Many cases had to be cut down. The radio project had to be paid for that cut, and it was shown that the radio rate did not fully return, but it was to be done as soon as the increase continued.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u10	Increase?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u11	Increase in pay to 19 thousand... [[It was set at 18,800.]] Yeah, 18800 bucks. [[Up front.]] In 2011 it was decided that the price would be $18800. But this game is typical. There are numbers being played, and though the facts say 16,400K. A radio bill and even if it fully returns, it is not enough to finance the state radio. It is as if everyone is closed and does not want to listen and will not understand and will not look at the facts. [[Up front.]] You can't talk like that. Hv. A senator, the chairman of a financial committee, does in speaking down the Government Radio and facing litigation groups, now all of a sudden it is good enough to finance the health system and to take it from the Government Radio, allowing these community's foundations to bite on something rather than setting priorities in this society for the sake of the culture and democratic media, such as the Government Radio. Instead, there are always priorities for the wealthier and big business in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u12	Tell the truth.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u13	I'm telling you the truth, Mrs. Vigdís Hauksdóttir, you know that. The truth may not be the same in my mind as in yours, but it may be a problem I cannot solve in this discourse.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u14	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. This discussion over the past few days has revealed how underdeveloped the budget is under consideration. The day before yesterday, we saw a print error that changes the bill to 1.2 billion. Yesterday, the secretary of finance made a deal with the rural communities on the same amount that changes the bill, and in the Morning Press today we read about it. þm. Vigdís Hauksdóttir, who clung up here at sea, to take the case to the 2nd. Undervalue the pension bonds that result from recently made bargains at a further hundred billion dollars. [[Up front.]] I don't usually believe in what the morning edition says, though I know it. That's what the President does. But there must be a question. paritaprevir My daughter's Magnúsdóttir Electric Rafney how she feels about such tactics, that there's a huge amount of money here every day to change. The news is still being announced that there are new prime messages of a marvelous government selling that you will also consider on the budget as it is available. It could be between the 2nd and 3rd. will make enormous adjustments that actually make the figures we've been considering in the main mountain on the budget, 2 Peter 3: 1. O.r., to nothing because it does not describe the bill that is to be passed before a year? In fact, it should have become the law yesterday, but it would never have been created because the bill as it comes to 2nd. ... fromwhat. paritaprevir In many important matters, Vigdís Hauksdóttir is simply wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u15	Mr. President. You're absolutely right. A senator that this is not very reassuring, and it seems that there will be little left to pay if there are still hundreds of millions who are not included in this variable, the budget, and the lack of money. This describes bad practices, and there is something big that if you can't trust them when the law has arrived at 2nd. that all parts of the sea have been calmed down, as is said in seamen's language, and everything that is due to be brought under the law of the law is in order. Hv. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir must be worried about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u16	The bill is a living document.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u17	You can't just say that the bills are a living document, that's one of those golden granules that comes out of the mouth. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, but maybe she should look at these matters for herself. She is responsible for this class as the chairman of a financial committee and must accept that responsibility and try to correct and apologize to us members of the Parliament for the ill way to win the budget. If new bills still seem like selling property and so forth, you just ask yourself: " Are we really good at taking over the bill? We don't have to be between Christmas and New Year's, too, at work. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir and a majority of the budgetary and the government? This government has already shown that it has everything down to its core, that it is over all over the country, and even known members of the West have already left the category that I would never have believed would happen. [[The president calls.]] But let God know.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u18	A respectable president. Guð lets you know what's good. Senator. But I'm amazed that it's like the senator who has to say that the conduct of the administrative committee in this discussion is not in such a way that you expect this bill to appear here on sale of property at hundreds of billions of dollars in the coming days, and the government would like to have some conversation over the government stand on such a wonderful subject. How sad it is that such large joints are actually wrong in the bill when it reaches 2nd! To be honest, I can't remember another time that the president of the budget has turned over a bill as wrong for a discussion at the council as it is now, telling everything about the process. I wanted to take this opportunity to ask you why. A member of the parish program and perhaps particularly on the situation in the northwestern district. Now we have just received an overview of the development of economic growth from areas around the country. Counts 'em out. A senator that needs to take further action but is expected in the bill just in this area, including in internal strength, in roads, in communication, or in other matters, or in welfare or in the development of a career? I have felt that the figures that we have taken care of for economic growth in recent years are not in some areas as productive as they are in some parts of the country and could be a subject for making special arrangements for the Council's district, the Northernwestern district.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u19	Mr. President. I express the same concern as the other. A senator over the matter coming in here during the last days and touching the management of the Federal Bank on property. It must give away all the contracts, and it's not improving. Of course, the administrative part should be on its knees to the management side asking for good weather to solve all the big knots that he himself has knelt. But for employment in the northwestern district and based language, there are, of course, different areas, covered, but many areas within my district, the Northwestern district, really need some injection and state power with local people in the building up and using the tools available, a strategy, a strategy, and a deal of culture and growth, and building up the wood. Of course, walking in the northwestern district is a disgrace to all of us as a nation. Professional life in southern Western Europe has been growing due to salmon breeding and is still very interested in locals, but the government is still drawing the feet from meeting the structure with powerful steps in the infrastructure, such as transport and other factors in the process of transport. The same can be said of the weakening of high school in a country that is a very serious concern. And roads, local roads, and roads are worse than those in the Caucasus Mountains, as a member of the capital area put it yesterday.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u20	President. I want at the beginning of this speech to bring to the attention of a council and to the president that yesterday a bill was put forth to legalize the Council of Iceland at the General Assembly on the budget, the budget and the budget. In the Law Review of a change in the Secret Bank's law on stability, and resolution to the swelling company says, with the permission of the President: The Committee shall set up a body with the intent to care for the management board and to complete and sell as appropriate for the selected holdings [...] other than financial assets and available funds. In other words, this means that there will be a special partnership on the grounds of the Federal Bank, which will be used to sell the property as the stability proposal and the bank's swelling farms to provide it for the administration. This is one of Iceland's largest cases and has been rather relaxed, if any, since yesterday's trial. Also, the law bill that I expect to be given at this assembly or before Christmas, says, I don't think otherwise, by permission of the President: A financial bill should be made clear for the planned treatment and provision of the valuables. In the budgets of each year, and in terms of the next year's budget, there must be, in particular, a plan on what to sell, how to sell it, and how to make the arrangements, no more or less. We're in 2nd. budgets to discuss next year's budget and not be accepted here, i.e. the provision of a planned treatment and the provision of property that the swelling of old fallen banks has decided to deliver to governments. I'm not sure that everyone will be aware of what sort of giant thing we have here under this bill, if it's going to be done at this council, to enter the next year's budget. This will likely be done at some speed between the 2nd and 3rd. Unless that happens, which I wish will be done to this discussion here, 2nd. the next year's budget, be suspended, postponed, the case referred back to the budget committee for reviewing this case, get clear whether it is first intended to provide this stabilisation bill and whether it is intended to take these plans and plan a provision for the property in the next year's budget as required in the bill. I'm asking the highest. The president whether he is aware that this bill is being given to him at the current council, i.e. For Christmas, the bill for disposition of the property of the swelling farms, which were given to governments in connection with the maintenance supply this summer. I can't see in any way how we should be able to go on through 2nd. the next year's budget without getting this straight. I ask, in all kindness, to the head of the council, the chairman, to determine if it is the meaning of this bill's donation that it will be done at this council. If that is the case, it is inevitable that 2 Peter 3: 1 - 3. the next year's budget will be postponed, and this bill will be discussed. It has to be done before the budget is finished, but not after the end, it is impossible to take it into the budgets of the next year when they have been finished. I wish for the highest. The President's information on whether or not it is intended to provide for Christmas this legal bill for the disposition and sale of property on the stability project and for me to get the answers to the following after my speech has finished. I've mentioned before the position drawn into the budget bill of the immediate future, i.e. where we're going with the state funds and which way we're going with the state. [[Up front.]] The mention sheet of the greater section says on the first page that it does not exist and that in fact, it is a long way to start subsidies and interest costs, that people will be taped here in the fourth year in a row, hoping that government funds will be fired at zero next year as long as they can go to Lands Bank and make money. This is essential for the loss of state funds to zero next year. Based on the data available here, based on the budget and the opinion of the greater part, the state is not going to be on the right side of the regularly running zero, but needs payment. That's lame. It is ambitious that the fourth year in a row, 2013, and all the years that the current government has been, all three, are presented with a financial bill in the hope that the Bank of Lands will come to the payment that will eventually make the state zero. That's really lame, really lame. In this document, bill for financing, policy, and watching, which is the main document and is to be read, I urge senators to read it carefully and carefully, to determine the course and the design of their right categories with a trust fund. It is not a good picture. On page 18. 71 and 72 are a good summary of estimated income and expenditures over the next few years, i.e. the income of a business, the amount left to business, and the amount of expenses that are of little importance. The appearances in the charts and the tables submitted by the administrative committee tell us that the budget for the next few years is expected to go down to 25%, even lower. Then we are so far away from the countries we've wanted to aim for, the North countries, the welfare societies, that we will not approach them again in the immediate future. Then we're getting closer to countries we've never compared with in Iceland, whether to institutions of education, health institutions, or the welfare system. In policy and in control of the government presented by this financial bill, this is made very clear. That's where you can draw it. For example, I encourage people to read on page 19. Achieving the expected prospects for languages, statistics, and tablets is the same. The aim rests on the policy that the early income of a state fund with no irregular joints remains almost unchanged, at least not increasing, but the initials without irregular joints grow more slowly, i.e. expenses. It draws between national product, GDP, and the expenditures we are going to achieve the business. Then we might begin to stop talking about running some sort of welfare society here. Then we can stop talking about that state's running at zero. It won't be. That's a long way from doing it. It is true that in the leading part of the committee, there is no indication that this is about to happen. It's a long way off, says more of the legal committee, that we're going to have to pay off debts in this country on a pre-existing budget bill and on the basis of the policy and outlook of this government. There will be many who stop at a council before the day comes when government funds will be fired so that debt can be paid off. Finally, I reiterate my request, a respectable president, to find answers to whether or not there is a legal bill about changing the law on the Secret Bank on the stability program at this council, and I soon get the answers after my speech ends. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u21	Mr. President. I agree with what you're saying. Senator. We're here talking about budgeting and dropping billions of dollars, and we don't know what the total balance will be in 2016. Are we still talking about the lack of money or about the restoration of debt? We don't know that. We just hear of numbers coming in. 1.2 billion are just here because of a failure to calculate the teacher's collective agreement so I can't help but say something. The senator when he says that there is truly reason to pause a discussion about this matter and take it into the committee to consider the situation better. I'd like to ask you what. A senator how he feels about a message that is being sent to the highest level by a major body of legal committees. A government as to what it feels should be a priority for a taxing law code. The majority believe that surveillance agencies have burdensome legislation and that it is important for the government to find out how to simplify it. It is specifically requested, as the opinion says, if I recall correctly, to consult the sector served by the surveillance institutions. I would have thought that surveillance agencies exist for consumers and the public. I'm asking why. The senator how he feels about this message, and the emphasis that a greater proportion of the legal committee puts in this context.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u22	A respectable president. I'll accept what you're saying. Harðardóttir I'm telling you, I'm telling you, I'm talking about the bill that was submitted to a council yesterday for the establishment of a social club to set aside and take possession of property for the stability of which I'm expected to deposit. They're one of the things that change the next year's budget. It's a big deal, the biggest case in Icelandic politics should be dealing with. In fact, most of these have been kept out of the picture, most of which have been supplied in the Presidency Department for some closed meetings there. I need this to come in here. This needs to be discussed before the budget is determined, for it is in the bill that it needs to be in the budget. It doesn't have to be a remarkable math skill to see about the tilt, it's totally obvious, that the amount of money to be on the budget compared to the budget bill, according to the proposal of an additional proportion that reduced the rest, has gone. According to the budget bill as it appears today, with the changes in the majority of the items, the state will not be running on the right side of zero next year. You're about to start your debt collection. To achieve the goal of being on the right or the right side of the board, the top of the board needs to go to the Bank and gain more money, irregular income, because it does not get the rest of the regular operation. That is why the state's sliding. There's a lot of chapters in this committee party that I don't understand why they're in it. There are no suggestions, it's just some kind of irritability from the Independence Party. Pension commitments are discussed here, but no suggestions on how to solve the problem. [[The president calls.]] There's some kind of irritability more or less from the Independence Party. It's the same as when it comes to monitoring. We know exactly where it comes from, and we know exactly how that person views the role of public institutions. It's not for the government, it's not for the public, it's for those who cost it here at council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u23	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. The budget bill assumes 3.7 billion dollars. The lower interest costs because there are 170 billion due to the stability process. The visit is not shown at any rate, but expenses for less interest costs are shown to 3.7 billion, and we on the budget were told that it would not fully be clear that there would be something about the stability of the budget or the budget, it would depend on how this fell. We've got a 3rd. and we're standing here at 2nd. ... sothere'sa big deal going on. Hv. A senator mentioned the earlier agreement on translocation of disabled subjects. That's 1.5 billion. And what about the bank bill that's come in here, don't you think we need to take a good look at it? And then there's another issue on the outside, The State Radio. True, it may not be so large, almost 400 million, but it is still a bill that has been announced to come in here. They need to agree if the radio bill is to be different from the financial bill. What do you think? A senator on the majority opinion when discussing the State Radio? Are not also the political messages that more of the legal committee places at the highest level. Counsellors? Congressants in the greater part seem to set up conditions for the highest. Minister if I interpret the committee's opinion correctly. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u24	President. You're absolutely right. paritaprevir The new Oddný Harðardóttir, it is very strange to move to a book and assume a part of the impact of the stable donations, i.e. to reduce growth in this case, but do not take it otherwise. They choose something to convert into the budget to drool on the right side of zero, force the figure down below zero at any time, and then in the discussion during the days that are passing by here - I hope that this discussion will take a few more days, for it usually falls within the 15 to 1.5 billion a day. budgeting a budget bill with the suggestions of much of it. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Everything's down. There will be a minus in the next year's renovations according to this bill for the first time since 2013. What a sense of ambition, what a sad fortune it is to be unable to run a government fund at zeros of 140 billion. More money than we completed last term on. Imagine that it's the Independence Party that runs the Ministry of Economics and that's what happens under his control, that's nothing. If you are to take into account the budget of the swelling farms, it must also be completed some way at the end of the year, as with everything else that enters the budget. What goes into the budget will probably have to be completed, first by means of a financial bill, then by the end of the budget, and then by a government bill. [[The president calls.]] There's no reason for that here, nothing. It's just numbers that are appropriate for the reduction of interest costs due to stability, but otherwise it doesn't come in here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u25	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Björn Valur Gíslason for discussing this bank bill. Yesterday, December 11, this council was to complete according to a work programme. No, no, no, no, that day a new bill of extramarital changes came up in the Marine Bank study. I just got off a town last night and got a little upset when I realized I'd missed a whole big case. I'm asking the senator, because I couldn't keep up with this, because I was absent because I had other responsibilities: Is this matter really necessary before Christmas? To be honest, my words are quite thoughtful. I understand there's a budget problem that I understand about the health insurance that has to be done before Christmas. The council has just arrived, and it has not been recommended. Then the matter will be added. Then there's a government bill on RUS. It is not the same gas story that ends with the language of the heart for the Icelandic nation, and it may not be a great willingness to pamper something to the common people by maintaining a relaxed public radio. We're in the middle of a total crisis of pensions, health issues, and then there's some weird little showdown going on in the development community, a case that the government doesn't even support, but we in the smaller parts have maintained the protection. I would like to use my former answer to ask the senator, did something happen here last night about what the government intends to do with this bank bill? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u26	A respectable president. Of course, I didn't find out. This bill was just snuck into a drifter and announced by the President's chair that it had been submitted, for no minister has been seen in this discussion. It says in the bill that the estimated sale prices and the provision of property are due to the stability of budgets. It says clearly. What does that mean? That means you have to do this bill before you take care of the budget. You don't put something in the budget that's already approved, it's not a case. This bill cannot be read any more than that it has to be cleared quickly by the third. ... abundant. It's a big deal, it's running at tens of millions of dollars, a company to take over property, change assets, make free money, outside banks that the Bank Office is taking over, which we don't even know. We haven't been informed. It was not in the government's agreement with vultures what these assets are. It is impossible to continue this discussion unless you have information on this. I demand that a secretary of finance who is expected to be responsible for this bill be announced to the council to discuss this matter and to understand what he expects of this, whether he wants it done, and how in any way it should happen to them, except by some form of violence, here for the 3rd issue. [[Up front.]] This is one of the biggest cases that have affected our lives at the council, and we have no right to allow any Ministers to influence us in this way, although much of the legal committee seems to tolerate it, as can be read by a committee, since it is simply unremarkable to what he says year after year. [[The president calls.]] The majority complains about that in the Committee opinion, but we don't have to worry about it. Let us stand on our feet and find out what is to be done and discuss matters normally. I wish that the secretary of finance will be fulfilled and called to the Hall of Congress to discuss these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u27	V.E.G. President. I agree with what. Senator. There's one more thing to do here, to the highest. The secretary of finance will be launched, or the discussion will simply be interrupted, and a financial committee will be allowed to review factors that will obviously be added to the budget bill before it can be approved at the council. Then we're not only talking about this bank case, which we've not been given a proper explanation for, but also a pension case. Everyone sees that there won't be peace about the results that the greater part set up here. The health system is in rioting, there is great dissatisfaction and pressure to deal with, and these matters need to be handled reasonably. Then there are the issues of the disabled, and we were now getting information that at least temporary results had finally been reached. She needs to be reviewed. Is this adequate? How does this affect the concern of the user - controlled personal assistance we have here? Then there is the blessing of The Kingdom Radio, held on a committee but would receive full support from the minority part. That's very important to us. It's simply so large the money as well as the teachers' deals that came in here one night too. So 3rd is a matter of reviewing all of this. is a last-minute discussion. There are some minor corrections and adjustments, but the changes we are talking about here need to be done at 2 Thessalonians 3: 1. That's why I think the most natural thing would be, and I'm asking the senator about his opinion, to pause here for a discussion so that this big payout team can be reviewed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u28	President. It's perfectly clear from my point of view. I can't see in any way how the council, let alone a financial committee, the chairman of a legal committee with a small self-respecting ambition for its work and ambition for its committee - such an officer would stand here but not me, make demands, and ask what was happening here. What exactly is the race for humans? Why do billions of people fall on top of billions, as the chairman of the media describes yesterday? She calls it a leak from government officials at the Ministry of finance. They cannot even take responsibility for their own actions but refer them to the staff of the Board of Directors. It's just a mistake, they always make mistakes in the finance Department. There's not a mistake here, no, not at all. There's a lot of people on their feet here. These are cold greetings to the people who have not been addressed in the controversies of the crash, but they likely did one of the greatest feats being done here to build and save the land. The people who work there will be much obliged. It is unnecessary and lowly to send them greetings of that sort as well. The head of the budget board did so in the media yesterday. The legal bill here is so big and has so much effect on us that we cannot avoid discussing it with the next year's budget. That's impossible. I reiterate my desire that a minister of finance be announced to the council to discuss this matter, and I request that a meeting be delayed, as well as the discussion, until the minister of finance has entered the building so that we can determine if he requires this matter to be done before Christmas. [[The president calls.]] If so, we cannot continue this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u29	Mr. President. I come to join the highest wishes. The secretary of finance is here for the discussion and/or the continuation of it, and the budgetary committee can draw up information about the removal of all of these on the final inch of the 2nd. Two days ago or so, it was discovered that people had somehow forgotten 1.2 billion because of the effect of collective agreements on the secret of teachers. Yesterday, reports were received that the minister of finance, which is enjoyable, signed a contract with the rural society on funding for the disabled, at the same time informing that about 1.5 billion more flows to the seminary, which is at the cost of the government's income, i.e. This is done by increasing the proportion of tax revenues that go into the equation. There are still issues, such as the State Radio and the War of the Government with the elderly and desperate. Then comes a bill that tells the county tens of millions of dollars if not hundreds of billions of assets, and we must have an explanation of how this will come into the next year's budget. [[The president calls.]] One financial minister may most likely give an overview of it or give the committee time to discuss the situation and return a higher committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u30	The President wants to inform the highest level. Secretary of finance will be arriving for lunch, at noon. 13, with the heads and representatives of the classes to discuss the bill that has been given here as a subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u31	President. I thank you for the information that the secretary of finance intends to review these matters with the heads of the classes, which would be unnatural in view of the extent of the journey and where we are on the timeline. The plan is over by Christmas. So it is one more time that we watch that a work plan is put forward more as a standard of reference than a real frame around the work of the Generals. On the other hand, I would like to say that the big figures that are in agreement with the communities on the issues of the disabled, where we see in the media and on the websites of the advisers that there is an agreement of 1.5 billion. I'm here to celebrate the deal. I'd like to make it very clear that it's a pleasure to have agreed on this important group and on the basis of the local society's income to care for it. However, there is no question as to how this will be put on the budget bill. Stands to install this between 2 and 3. ... awrong.? We haven't heard anything from the leading legal committee about it. Why not stop this discussion so that we know what we're talking about? [[The president calls.]] There are billions falling in here day after day without people knowing exactly where to plant them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u32	A respectable president. Senators probably know that the budget bill is, like other bills, a living document, as I said on the advance call earlier. [[Up front.]] There is no joy in the fact that a contract between rural society and the State has been made to deal with the disabled. [[Up front.]] There is no mere joy in anything here. It's perfectly condemned. It is also not new that the budget bill is a living document. As far as I can remember, the current government parties had to take the nasty bite of going into budgets with a complete exit drive in back of their time. There was a full schedule, and that was the case. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's Steingrímur when he was a professional minister. It was completely insurmountable as the last government went on and won. [[The president calls.]] We are glad that the discussion continues, since I understand that the government situation has a lot to say. I'm in a house and I'm listening to everything, and it's a pleasure to have a great time. The secretary of finance is on his way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u33	V.E.G. President. I'd like to begin by saying that it was a great pleasure that the president called here to the top house. A minister of finance to settle over these matters. I was beginning to worry that the President was not going to have any control over the council. I want to ensure that there will be a follow-up of this meeting that this will put us in line to receive the information and the information we need to make a thought-so-go, e.g. the agreement on the disabled issues. Truly, we rejoice that such a agreement has come into a house, but we want to see what it involves. It's a big, important group of paintings, and we don't accept that we're just told that we should be happy, no more than in the stability program where the vultures were probably given to several hundred billion. We want data and information to make our own decision, and I trust that my respectable president will make sure that in the lesser part we have the opportunity to make that decision.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u34	Mr. President. We're in the middle of a discussion about the budget and we're dropping into billions of dollars and all sorts of ideas about changing the budget. There is good reason for the president to take the initiative that this discussion will be interrupted and a financial committee would be called together to review the matter. The minority asks that it be done. The Chairman of the Committee, what? paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, looks happy and happy with this rousing and confusion and that we stand here, representing the legal committee, having no idea what the overall balance will be in 2016. This is totally unacceptable. These are very poor practices and poor planning to be spoken of as mild words.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u35	Mr. President. Truly, the budget bill is a living document by Mrs. President of the Fundament Committee, eh? paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir. You see, at 24 - hour intervals, billions of dollars drop in or lost in the state's income, 1.2 billion in the day that was forgotten by teachers and 1.5 billion yesterday as a result of negotiations with the disabled. Further, the information presented here is related to the generous agreements made by the Governments Sigmundur Davíð of Gunnlaugsson Gunnla to the demands that are so good in their opinion that they flock to the country and agree to the stability proposals with 99% applause. However, the government intends to include lower interest costs because debt is to be paid with some part of this stability process. How, though, should the income be made? Shouldn't they come in the other side? I had thought so. Of course, it has been a black hole that the government will not be able to comment, so I think it is by far the most logical thing to postpone this discussion, the conference with the secretary of finance, and, among other things, whether it is not necessary to give any financial committee at any time to bring in a new committee and a new list of the prospects for the next year. [[The president calls.]] It's all going on, and this kind of demolition is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u36	The President's rights what he said before, there's gonna be a meeting at the highest level. Secretary of finance and members of the political party during lunchtime, at noon hours. 13 But until then we will continue this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u37	Mr. President. I thank you for being called, but I don't like to continue this discussion in the light of what has been traced here. It's not like we're talking about some small money between conversations. We had almost no time to prepare our committee opinion after a huge stimulus change in the greater part, and it seems to me that we would need some time to lie down over it. That's not enough. I believe that at least after meeting with the government officials on these matters, we need some kind of room after meeting with them. I think there's a possibility that there may be some information to be shared, so we can continue this discussion. I'm afraid there had been some sound heard from the corner of the last terms if such a thing had been submitted as here is being done right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u38	A respectable president. I find that we are constantly discussing who did what during the last term, especially now when we're trying to look ahead, especially in view of the fact that we're in some so - called good condition, even though many people don't see it. On the other hand, I would like to make a comment to the kind of work the President has had in not letting nobles in after being in Paris at the climate convention. I don't think it's a good idea that we pull in the guards on the sixth day of Congress and some more. It is a failure, and many have taken steps with their children, and they did not expect to have to meet here late. [[Up front.]] Yeah, that's a good question. If the nobleman has come home, is it not time for a substitute to go out, especially when a nobleman has been outside for five days, as the law expects? Is it not all right to consider how the arrangements taken by the nobles and the lips are handled? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u39	Regarding the entrance of the nobles when a deputy has attended a council, certain laws are passed and the president will deny them. [[Up front.]] The law is clear in this regard, and the president is holding them under law. I hope it's what it is. A senator did not encourage a president not to obey the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u40	A respectable president. I'm gonna expose the President's conference board because there's been a lot of deception here. The changes in the memory of the part are suggested that the state's funds take income from major users to the future at 2 thoust. Millions. I have a magazine from August 13, 2010, which I'm going to read from, a respectable president: ▪ As shown in the June 15 issue of this magazine. only to respect the terms of the agreement found in the joint declaration of financial and industrial ministers on the other hand, and the sectoral organisation and the major users of electricity. This means that no further taxes will be imposed on big users of electricity as such at the time of the agreement. Also, there is no other project for any particular tax change that would be related to a major industry alone to disrupt their investments. [[The president calls.]] Under this rule, the then secretary of finance, Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, has placed the hands of the government for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u41	A respectable president. Of course, we are glad that an agreement has been made with the rural communities over the affairs of the disabled. It only shows that this government is working, and so it is, and of course, the financial bill depends on the change in the period being discussed. There's nothing new about it. Here, there's a lot of fear over something that may be 0.2% of the budget and may be doing a big deal about it. Of course, I hold that members of Congress are informed about this and are happy that the Minister of finance is here to meet with members of Congress on this matter. However, it is thrown out of a glass house when it is said that there should be information and open court treatment if I merely review my speech in which I reminded of the Swiss treaties that were made at the time and were to drive through the council. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] This would be the first money we'd be working on if they had made it, and then we'd be dealing with 40 billion on next year's budget, that's a little more than 0.2% this year, and every year 60 and something billion, and every year for six years, and then again 40. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] In other words, one university hospital every year for the next eight years. [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]] [[Up top. More, more.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u42	President. Based on what you're looking at. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son, we can thank you for not being on the budget. That's enough, though, I'd like to say. [[Up front.]] They're talking about -- Yeah, there's more than the rest of the budget, I agree with that. [[Up front.]] I've demanded and thanked the president for their response by proclaiming financial ministers down to the House to discuss this matter with the council, but what I'm asking here is: 0.2% why? The German State's budget? What kind of calculations are these? This is one of the biggest cases in the nation's history of redemption [Órói at the Hall of Congress]. [[The president calls.]] and that's what we need to talk about. We need to get in there to finish it. It is impossible to continue this discussion. If it is one and a half hours before the Minister of finance is due to come to the House and explain this matter at the council, I would like the discussion to be postponed until the explanation is explained and then it becomes clear whether it makes sense to keep the 2nd cover. the next year's budget will continue or not. [[Up front.]] This case is of that magnitude. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u43	Mr. President. If a plan had been held, we'd be finishing a council here on December 12, but we wouldn't. The government is still trialing, although it is time for a plan to be completed and a council to be on holiday. It has been very important for me to reach some conclusion in such matters as the case of the disabled, and I am happy that there is some conclusion, but I don't know what it's like. The areas of the country differ greatly in matters of the disabled, and the rest of the scattered regions have a serious problem meeting laws on the affairs of the disabled. We in here have no idea how this implementation is. Us senators have every right to review this process and how it will come out for an isolated area. To bring such big issues like the stability bill and a company around it to the council when it's supposed to be over is completely different and this government is a disgrace. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u44	Mr. President. The confusion over the 2016 budget has become so intense that we can't be invited to stand here on speeches to discuss what we don't know what will eventually happen. We have no idea if the overall balance will be negative or positive or where we are going. There's been a correction for the teacher's collective agreement here. The doctor's contract is still being evaluated. The subjects of the disabled were coming in, and they're waiting for a bill for the State Radio. There's only 4 billion there, and according to the bill on the remainder, there's going to be over 10 billion. Where does it end? I'm asking the President not to offer us the opportunity to stand here in our speeches, knowing that there is no creation of what we're talking about. It's a donation. The chairman of the budget board is reviewing something from 2010. [[The president calls.]] Can't the board be in modern times and handle the present - day confusion? [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u45	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with the wish that we postpone a meeting until the highest level. Secretary of finance is coming to the house. He can talk to us. Also, I would like to protest the urgency of the discussion during a work schedule. It may very well be that the members of the Parliament have time to examine full evidence and to listen to talks. However, the tendency is to meet until midnight for days. If members of Congress are to listen to talks that are still very materially and inexpensive, and yesterday, members of the Parliament were still giving their first talk, they must have time to look at new bills, such as one that arrived yesterday and discuss them between themselves. I'm sure it's all the work you're using your brain over your head. If we're going to use our brains to work here, we're going to need enough time so I'm sure I'll add an hour and a half under these circumstances. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u46	V.E.G. President. There is an excellent unit of measurement here in the state of the administrative sector that you know to get worse as the speech at the right time grows. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon is increasing. There's quite a stir in the conference room now in his garden, which I think will show us that the administrative part is not feeling well. I think it's the best. President as well as the highest. A financial minister has admitted that there is little information here to further the work. That is why this meeting has already been announced. 13th I agree with what you're saying. Harðardóttir It is not advisable for us to take continued talks without knowing the situation and every wind so I wish we will be interrupted. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u47	The president has spoken very clearly. We'll have lunch break at noon. 13 and it's at the highest. Secretary of the budget to meet with the representatives of the clans.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u48	A respectable president. I have to agree with others who have discussed the situation here. It's amazing how much change seems to be made on the budget. Of course, the trouble started with the many days when changes began to occur. and it goes on, large news of the change in the budget is coming in during the discussion. I think it's important that we don't view the General's symposium as some of the extras. The talks held here are on the subject, and with members of the Parliament, a talk is held in the Generalship because it's supposed to matter, not just to allow the clock to tick. So I have to agree with others, I think it's time to take a moment off this discussion while we're explaining what we're talking about. [[The president calls.]] We'll keep talks about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u49	A respectable president. Well, that's definitely part of the railing on the dog. In reviewing the time of the last government and the treatment at that time, the members of the minority of the part that is going to be very intense. Our management are so calm, we're all just asking for it. Congress officials agree on how long they want this matter to be held on the program, and the matter can be arranged for it to take place. It is credible that the budget goes to a committee between the 2nd and 3rd. and even that there are changes in discussions. There the committee and members of Parliament have the opportunity to review the new data, the small additions that are added in the overall context, and I don't think there is any reason to postpone this discussion. [[The president calls.]] This is to continue with it while a speaker is on the rosary and then the case will take its place in the treatment of the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u50	President. There are a couple of stories about what we're gonna do for lunch. I'm waiting for the highest. President to inform us. As I understand the President, it's to the highest. The Secretary of Economics and Economics is coming to our homes and meeting with representatives of the clans. We're talking about matters of such magnitude that there will be no more pleasure than that members of Congress will be given their advice. Is it possible for the secretary of finance to speak to one from each category, or is it being called in by the directors of the government? Not my chairman. My chairman has not received any information about the possibility of meeting with the secretary of finance at the time. 13th
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u51	It's Marinó, isn't it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u52	How does a president keep his mind on this progress? We've got to get strings together here. It takes time to talk about such a big matter. There will not be any running with any of the troops. [[Up front.]] President. Is it possible to adjust from one of the senators to the right in the Senate Hall? [[The president calls.]] [[It's a radio story.]] Yeah, Radio History's on its way. I think it's very important that we find out what is in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u53	The president carefully selected his words when he told the ◯ full - time classes, and this was done by the president because he thought that it was reasonable for members of the council to decide who might represent them at the highest level. Secretary of finance. Although president of VG, temporarily outside the council, there is such a meeting, there is no sign of the matter. In the opinion of the president, making this decision is entirely under the authority of members of Congress. Indeed, the president wanted to avoid saying that he could be said to be in some way excluded from one or order others for them, and with this, he arranged his choice of words by his well - known democratic love.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u54	President. I know and I've heard that the President has made quite clear that he wants to continue this meeting until the end of the week. 13 When a minister of finance comes to the house to explain to members of Congress what he intends to do with this bill for the establishment of a social club to assign property to the swellingrs of the old banks. That's what I've heard. I also know that the highest. A reasonable, realistic president of the world is aware of the bottom of the 2nd. ... money'sgone. There is no explanation for this discussion anymore. The bill that was presented yesterday is of the magnitude that the members of Parliament must first learn about it before meeting with the secretary of finance, they must get results from that meeting, what the goal is, when to take care of it, and how to get it into the budget and make it available for the next year. In the meantime, talking about the budget bill is empty. [[The president calls.]] I'm just talking about a little over an hour, a respectable president, and I'd like this meeting to be postponed until we can figure it out.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u55	A respectable president. I come up here with a reaction to a word. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son when he spoke about making a deal about the length of this discussion. I just want to say for myself that I don't see any reason for it at this point, if I'm supposed to say exactly as it is, because the discussion is still at the point where people were yesterday in their first talks and is still discussing this matter very thoroughly, materially, and reasonably, in my opinion. Yesterday's bill on the Secret Bank appeared, and then there's a new proposal. It's a living piece of paper like a wag. paritaprevir It is only natural that Vigdís Hauksdóttir has rightly pointed out, and it is only possible for us to spend an hour and a half when we need to get to know things before we speak to the highest level. Secretary of finance. It is not normal for the discussion here, especially from the management section, to be struggling with the clock. This is a discussion we should take, and we should have enough respect for it in order to see from an hour and a half rather than stress going home sooner.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u56	Mr. President. I think it is proper that members of the council now be given the opportunity to meet and discuss these matters, the position that has come up in the council. It's only good to be able to go over the matter before the secretary of finance comes to the house and discuss the bill with the class leaders. These are big, big issues that need to be discussed. Of course, when the council is to be completed, the president must also take the lead when things have come into play. There's a plan, big and big question coming into the table of 2 Parliaments. The budget, no one sees the end of this, and then the head of the Generals, too, must give the leadership and direct it to any agreement with members of the U.S. council in the bowel that has come up at the General Assembly. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u57	A respectable president. I would like to make a comment on how this meeting was arranged. There was no consultation with us at Porta Group. I was here all night, and I had to run between people in my section trying to get some information about how, how, when a meeting would be here this morning. I know that my group members of Porta's party were not aware that there would be a meeting at the time. 10 Saturday morning. It was not e - mail, and it was not used by the telephone system to text to members of Congress. [[Up front.]] It was e-mailed, yes, at least I missed it. Some part of our council didn't have it clear that we had a meeting here at the time. 10 Saturday morning. I just want to make a friendly remark about this. When changing the program for the council to this extent, it should be noted that all groups should be consulted.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u58	The president is very sorry that the invitation passed by. Senator. Last night, the president informed the representatives of all members of the council about his decision, the president, to make a meeting today. After that, e - mails were sent to all members of the Parliament and, in fact, all of the members of the Generals. Then it was announced on the council site. The president says he's sorry if the invitation has passed. A senator or others who needed this information.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u59	President. When I left yesterday, I had no idea there was going to be a conference today. I returned a computer and a lack of access and said goodbye. Also, I knew that according to protocol, Congress was over. Hv. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir has been out on Saturday, and according to everything, she should come back to work on Saturday, but in Congress, by permission of the President: ▪ When taking the lead in the premeditated senator's arrival, let him not sit for less than one week unless a Synod has been delayed or a convocation has begun according to a protocol. Work plan ended yesterday. [[Taken out on: right.]] I don't understand what I'm doing here. Can I stay here, or what?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u60	The answer may be brief. Hv. A senator should be here in accordance with these laws. It refers to this week, and that is what the president referred to. Although the president is fully motivated to try to meet the views of members of Congress, he feels bound by following these laws and regulations. Hv. A senator is more than welcome here. He is in his office as a deputy senator and, of course, with a state state stately right as such.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u61	A respectable president. It's getting pretty sad. Of course, it's shocking that last night at 11th, a meeting has been announced, i.e. This morning meeting here. Most members of the Parliament have their phones, and of course we assume that e - mails are being sent a text message too, so it would have been nice. However, it is true that the work programme ended yesterday and that many changes will occur. What I wanted to do here was that we had ten minutes to discuss the suggestions of the greater part after they were taken care of. Then the case was presented with a stack of changes and breaks out. So I ask you, here we have a bill that was submitted last night. Has this been discussed by members of the government? If that is the case, if they have been given the money bill on the members of the board, they are, of course, more aware of the matter than a large number of members of Congress. [[The president calls.]] That's very reprehensible. If this has not been discussed with members of the government, it is also a very serious matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u62	President. Yesterday, when this meeting or e - mail was announced, the only way to tell me about a meeting was to call me. It was so clear that a meeting began here this morning. I got a call at the end of the day. At 10:30 this morning, I'm asking you, don't you know you're a senator? I naturally answered, for I didn't even know that there was a meeting meeting. I ask, " Where is the responsibility for it? ' Who's to report when a conference is? That's why. Senators who work here with me, or is it the Council itself?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u63	Of course, it is the General Assembly that announces this meeting and, of course, it is the responsibility of the president that this is done correctly. The president believes that this was done by e - mailing the staff as well as the members of the Generals, and the meeting was announced on the Generals' Web site. The president spoke to the members of all the councils, actually before they were given, to report his intention of making this meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u64	...didn't talk to...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u65	The president spoke to the representatives of all members of the council, the chairman of Congress, but if they were not present, he would speak to the vice presidents of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u66	V.E.G. President. I was here yesterday through midnight and was just coming here now again, since I couldn't be here right away. 10. The first thing I see is that there are still other adjustments to the budget bill. I hear there's supposed to be a meeting with the secretary of finance, at least I want some people to have a meeting with the highest level. Secretary of finance later. I just want to agree with what has been said about this meeting being postponed, at least past that meeting. I must admit that I no longer know what the basis is for discussing this bill. There's always something new that changes the spending side and so that we can have some intelligent discussion about the financial bill that is the largest case each government every year, we all members of the Parliament must know what it is that we really are discussing. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, I believe this meeting should be postponed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u67	Mr. President. It's a little strange to be standing here on a symposium to discuss budgets for 2016 after what we now know is that there are a lot of changes and big changes that we don't know how to deal with the budget. We can talk in general about our politics and our emphasis, but there seems to be a lack of direct money to discuss, what space it will be to pay off debts to name something. The financier bill speaks of the stability project being made either in 2015 or in 2016 budgets. We're in 2nd. The 2016 budgets and the budgets are waiting for 3rd. A financial committee has not been called together to review these major issues. Here we are not talking about 1 or 2 billion, we are talking about 379 billion, if that is the stability potential. In any case, there are hundreds of billions of people, and there is a measure of happiness, standing here discussing the financial bill when we do not know how it will go down. I hope that the meeting that is announced with the secretary of finance at 1 p.m. with the representatives of the clans will shed light on how to handle these matters. Of course, it is not acceptable for us to be throwing in billions of dollars a day for any change in the budget when we cannot see the end of things, and we do not know when. The legal committee should have nothing to discuss these matters. I heard what it was like. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, president of the Committee, said that she was not worried that the committee would go through these cases. So it is assumed to be 3.7 billion. in the financial bill because of the stability process that shows up as a lower interest cost. But there is nothing inside to show us our income back. When we were complaining about this in the memory of a legal committee, we were told that everything was so vague and that it would be either the budget or the budget. It's December 12, and it's Christmastime. We do not provide hundreds of billions in just hours or days. It is clear, and it takes empty giving to discuss these matters, and it is absolutely impossible for us to spend precious time here in talks about money that we do not know how it will go down. It's unannounced. But the President wants it to be this way, and here I stand and can't help but discuss a few things at the time that I have left for this brief speech period that I believe is urgent and is missing on the budget bill. One of them is child benefits. While the government was raising a valuable tax on food, they said: "We raise the food in the country, but we're going to give the children a billion in return because of the cost of home account and the children need natural food at their disk. What then becomes evident when the year comes in terms of child reform that this billion did not go beyond the families of the children. 600 million of it was returned to the state fund. Why? This was because the change was at its height. There was only one side of the government. She had senators agree on a further billion as countersurgents to a food tax but then did not change the criteria for child reformation to start at 200 levels. K. month. Surprisingly, these criteria are not to be changed for 2016. That's what they're supposed to do. The smaller part considers this to be completely incapable and suggests, at least for those with a minimum wage in 2016, which is under the collective agreements of VR and the Flea Community of 270 yous. K. during a month in 2016, children's improvement will not begin to be impaired until first, at the minimum wage. Of course, that is not good and so far away from what the North countries aim in terms of child welfare, seeing child - welfare benefits as a contribution to balance the status of a child's family, not to poor money, but to balance the status of a child's family, and we are very far away from it. Such as the changes last performed in the paediatric improvements with the decline criterion at 200 you. K. and then the very cruel impairment ratios after that, so to speak, 500 of you. K. there's nothing left in individuals, it's more like the strength to poor people than child welfare that balances the status of a child's family. We propose this change and just make the change from 200 you. K. Up to 270 up. K. and twice that to a couple or those who live with each other, it costs 2.4 billion. They would be well spent, for all analysis shows that children who are in the greatest trouble and too many children in Iceland miss out on material things, cannot share in leisure activities, for example. All too many children live in such situations, and there's a bad situation, I don't talk about in this whole blues about which people are talking about, thinking that it's just a cool priority to lower taxes. The twenty-five thousand dollars in 2016 cost 5.5 billion. Last year, the change was also made, and in 2017, other 5.5 billion more are the priority of reducing taxes to those who stand well by because of the low-paying people getting nothing than the 850 you have. K. or more than 3 of you. K. just from state funds a month to make these adjustments. Stefánsson, who has written about the health system, claims to be the highest. A government government alone has called upon to pay higher taxes, making good money. The right government hands him 3 you. K. per month. But those under 400 of you. K. few less and those with minimum wage nothing. This is the priority, Mr. President, and it's a pity that people intend to go that way. The smaller part also suggests to increase the threshold for obstetricity to 500 levels. They are now 340 you. and have been replaced by the current government, except for 20 of you. K. which was inserted, I don't remember if it was the fall of 2013, yes, last year, 2014, so we expect the rise to 500 yous. That's over a billion dollars. That's a lot of money that would be worth it. Children's families would get more money, and those who take a baby's dues will receive more monthly wages, not even spending much money with their newborn babies.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u68	President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I'd like to stop for a second. A member of the council discussed the increase in food taxes in his day and the political cover that resulted from this discussion. At the height of the debate, it was stated that the forward group had made a warning of the increase in food tax, since it was planned that the tax would be raised to 12%, and after some massage, the increase would be 11%, with countermeasures, such as water. A senator crossed. News reports from this period show that there is trouble. A senator and head of the Economic and Business Committee, Frosti Sigurjónsson, spoke of his position that was singled out in a group of executives during the period when it says that he has made this warning about the increase in food taxes that the counterweight action would have to be sufficient to improve the quality of his home. More than that, he and other candidates were particularly skeptical about the fact that it revolved around the whole community, not just the lowest tenth or two tenths, but the whole community. He wanted to be sure of this, and that was also true in a case. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir and others that this should be the result. Now it turns out that part of these counter measures has been retracted. As far as I can tell, there's more part of the budget to set things off and I ask why. A member of the Parliament whether this has been applied specifically to a budget board, i.e. In what ways should the counterweight measures guarantee the improved status of all households in the country, as was the condition of the forwarding party at the time? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u69	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the question. That is correct, it was assumed that a billion child reforms were a counterimbursement procedure and 400 million in housing, and in both cases the idea was to meet those with the highest salary. But the 400 million have not gone out, so renters who never got caught out of the debt crisis have been betrayed for some reason. The financial committee has asked us how this is so, and we have just received the answers that have not been resolved. Of course, we asked about child support, and we have asked how they were headed - the amount of money that everyone in the country had a good chance of reaching out to have a family in order to match the situation and to see right after the first three months whether the amount works out or not. That's the way it is. It would have been one game in us to change the criteria to make sure that the amount of money that the General has agreed to make for a family should go back to them, not back to the state fund. It seems to be conscious. The reactions that we have spoken about this and that criticize the child's compensation and counterweaps have been received are that we should be so happy that the money in the country was rising. It shows complete lack of understanding of the status of low-payers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u70	President. Thank you. A senator's answers. It is interesting, then, to review the communication between the parties at that time. The financial and economic minister puts the importance of these changes in the valuable tax system and, in fact, aiming to reduce the paces as I understand it. However, this was a strange step toward the fact that the two steps were still in the media back then, he says that it will be determined whether counter measures will be performed with the expected rise in the value of food tax. It is noteworthy that after this time, no reevaluation of the effect on these groups will be made when the actual procedure in which it is actually detracted. The challenge is almost all withdrawn, and there is no trace or evidence that this has been failed, that it is detected in any way, or that you have changed, or recalculated counter measures on that basis. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u71	Madam President. You're absolutely right. A senator says, it's odd that this should not have been followed, but when we were discussing these changes, we stressed that those who made the changes in the consumer tax would be aware that the changes will be achieved, that the government would be monitored as planned. But this did not mean that the government would do so, saying: We need not worry about anything because the market will keep it safe. Since then, consumer research and union research have shown that it is not. When the top steps were down, they did not fully return to consumers, but when the lower steps were up, they returned, much more. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u72	Madam President. I thank the senator for his speech. Thereafter, this dramatic decline in toll remains ahead of the year. Among other things, there have been doubts about the extent to which a government's tone indicates it and in the light of what has been attributed here. We've been worried about it, describing the exact follow-up, and whether it all makes sense. Of course, it is a bit complicated that only we to whom consumers are expected to observe this rather than public surveillance. I also worry that customs do not fully return. I just want to go out for the senator's speech this time, i.e. this speech, and ask it, because we've talked a lot about public transportation, urbanity, and other things, that worth tax from public transportation has not been taken up or discussed. I think it's the right thing to remember that I'm supposed to be back at this time of the year when I'm going to be taking credit money from school driving, getting paid tax from disabled people driving, etc. My rural society has called only after this, and I've wondered if there could be a change, along with everyone under it, which appears to be between the 2nd and 3rd. For why? The vice president of the legal committee told us at our meeting yesterday that there would be a lot to discuss, and it is now to be seen, one after the other. There are 3 billion in two days that we know about and perhaps many more. So I ask. A member of Parliament whether it is something we need to discuss now and know whether the government is aware of this burdensome addition to the rural communities that have called for more money through the value tax. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u73	Madam President. If only in terms of goods and customs, which, of course, are to be returned directly to consumers, this does not reveal much consumer protection or high emphasis on consumer protection that the state itself should not examine and watch for any action intended to bring the consumers to a better position actually results in them. It is very critical that the market is just put in its hands and the answer is: The market does take care of itself. And then consumers have to stay on their toes to watch how these drains are handled. But as for the sink, I assume there will be a discussion on the Economic and Business Committee as well as on the budget because this is about both committees. Right away. A senator brings up public transportation and the burdensome actions to address the fact that I understand some of the public transportation, not all of it, and it may have a burdensome impact on my rural society, I also want to mention the need for public transportation laws. As they are now, this is very bad for the rural communities who have worked hard to create a system of public transport across their territory, but it seems to be the intention of the government to snatch all parts of the country out of the most profitable ways, as has been done in Southnes, with the way between Leifs stations and Reykjavík. At least it was the situation when the bill was submitted last, and I really hope that there will be some changes, but I haven't heard of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u74	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I agree that we need to get this bill on public transportation. There is a great deal of urgency because the funds placed here in the changes made by the majority of the items do not benefit everyone, and we do not know how they will be divided, that is, one number. We know that some societies, and especially the Ethium, are in poor condition after the initial division, that was not equal to the division. But the other is so large that it is possible to run into ways that it does not fit. You're really worried about that. But in view of the debate at which. The head of the budget board on which the money goes has been found to find that huge financial resources go to relief workers and buy out jobs and so on. [[The president calls.]] I want to put it that way in the rest of the discussion because we've been talking about how we've put our priorities that here we're talking about very large sums of money, which, for example, could go into the issues we've been discussing and make a suggestion in my section. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u75	Madam President. Only continue the public transportation. I think it's important for people to see how things work, and I look at my territory, Southnes. They had put a lot of work into creating a public transportation system throughout the area that was especially suitable for youths and people who do not have a car test or cars to attend all kinds of services, schools, and leisure activities between communities. The system was very nice, and one way was profitable, that was the way between Cheflavík and Reykjavík, or the air station, and Reykjavík. What an internal minister did was to end the contracts and to cut the way out, which means that all public transportation has a negative status and the cost strikes the less successful rural population. [[The president calls.]] It's just not gonna work out when you talk about the whole climate thing and the world record and God knows what it is about, of course, when you're looking at things like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u76	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the information she had on the consequences of these so - called counter measures because of the increase in food taxes. I'm finally getting tired of it, if I've got it figured out right, and I'd like to go for it. A senator, in fact, has ceased to be these counterweight measures. The government's failure to allow the limit for pay development is, in fact, the children's families, low income families, who pay for the increase in food taxes themselves because they lose it in poor child reforms that they would otherwise have benefited from in a higher salary, as did all other citizens. Added to this, at least this year the so - called counter measures have virtually disappeared. Since the advance party is unconscious in this matter like any other, I would like to direct it to our representative in a budget board before the 3rd district. they make a summary of the lack of these counter-importation measures for information and entertainment since the forwarding group itself has failed to deal with this. Second, I'd like to ask what. A member of Parliament: What information, if any, has been received from a government financial committee on how to handle so - called stables or incomes due to disintegration of a currency charge? It is a huge project, certainly no simple or easy thing to plan and move into budgets or budgets, but now it is probable that at least one of the farms has already agreed, and I think I'll be approved in their national legal contracts with the stability proposals under which the crews agreed to that almost 100%. [[The president calls.]] As a result, they may even pay for a year ago, so the question is, How to handle it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u77	Madam President. We've been talking about these counter-importations and child support particularly there and the housing benefits, but we've also named 200 million that were supposed to go into interest, both income and property-related. Because there was an increase in real - estate assessment, the growth contributions to the home were reduced. Although their wages were not much different in the home, they received this point less. This is serious, but it's as if people don't understand this account, that instead of complaining about it, we should just be glad that our pay has gone up. People don't watch that child damages begin to be out at 200 o'clock. K. and when it became evident that this was not going to work, these criteria were to be raised so that what the Generals had agreed to would have been passed on to a family of children. There is no need to repeat here that too many people live with overcrowding costs. When we discussed the stability progress at that time in a budget committee, we received the information that this was all happening and that we needed to see what was going to be agreed on by these contracts, they just had to apply for it before the year, and it might not have all come together, etc. In fact, it was more likely that it would come into the budget than the budget, asking for nothing to figure out how best it was in the budget, but it decided to assume 3.7 billion on the expense side to show a better position.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u78	Madam President. If I have understood this correctly, people will assume that they can pay at least the following year's letter to the Secret Bank, use the first funds that will be released and come to the State for it, and hence reduce the interest cost. Somehow it's gonna have to make a living. It will be a very strange situation if both budgets and funds for the next year will be closed without seeing in any way the year before, because this is definitely a crash. On either side of each side of the year or soon after the year's every year, you can expect it to be prepared to bring in its stability to the State because it is inexplicable. They then want to take their possessions out, pay their demands, so they won't keep it down if I make the right decision. Regarding the child's reforms, growth reforms, and tenants, it can be accessed from different sides. One way is to say that there the government found a way to get out of these families the compensations that others receive by becoming a child - reformer and child - reformer. [[The president calls.]] In other words, these families are also paid to increase the amount of food tax itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u79	Madam President. When the text in the budget bill is written, the stable tax is spoken of. So that's as far as it goes when that text is written. It accounts for a total of 170 billion in 2016. They know it's gonna be more, but they say they're just assuming it's 170 when they decide the numbers. The bond is to be paid, and that's why there are fewer interest, and then there are 40 billion on the bank tax that will be covered. That's all we got. I hope, Madam President, that a meeting that will be held with the council leaders will give some information, to the highest level. A financial minister offers some good information that will help us keep working on it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u80	President. If there had been a similar arrangement at a meeting last week and now, a meeting would have been announced on short notice and a meeting meeting would have been here last Saturday, then I would have been present as a deputy senator. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir, and as a result, I would have been a week since I started serving as a deputy. As a result, there should be trouble. paritaprevir Birgitta's Jónsdóttir was here today, but when she arrived today, as we expected at the Porita council, she was denied access to the Assembly Hall. So I want to ask you, what kind of work are these things? Can it be expected that this can be done in a better way in the future? I'm trying to save the big words if you can't see them on my face.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u81	The President just wants to be right. This is a matter of strict adherence to the laws and regulations of these matters. The president has tried to see if there are any examples of the following regulations. According to the information the president has acquired, there are no such examples, so this rule is quite clear and has not really been used as a basis for making comments to her up to this point.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u82	A respectable president. It's not just why. paritaprevir Birgitta, daughter of Jónsdóttir, chairman of Pirata's council, who is denied access to the chamber that she has been elected to serve in rather than has. paritaprevir Similarly, Valgerður's daughter's Bjarnadóttir was denied access to the Assembly Hall and other members of Congress. This disastrous situation is due, among other things, to the fact that the Council's work programme has gone into action. When these senators were announced over a council, there was no need for a meeting on Saturday. Birgitta Jónsdóttir was working for the General Assembly in a foreign field. Saturday, a week ago. If it were for a meeting on Saturday, it would have been announced on Friday, of course. So there is nothing more than the hand - to - hand president of the II Parliamentis and the Presidency Committee, who must be responsible for the work programme, that it has come to this point, that the work program is gone and that the National Committee, the elected members of the Parliament, is denied access to the hall. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u83	The president believes that this is a very misleading statement. This is what it means. Of course, members of Congress have been elected to be a member of the General Assembly. The rules apply that when a senator cannot attend a council meeting, he is entitled to bring in watchmen according to certain laws and regulations. They have been followed. There was a chance that it would already take place. That weekend, members of Congress went to the meeting that their guards would be called in on Monday, not for the weekend. There is nothing new that has come up in that situation. It's been going through all this time. That's why the rules are being strictly observed. The president is very sorry that there is an attempt to build a mud storm around this case, which, in the opinion of the president, is completely unprovoked.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u84	A respectable president. I think it's quite a special arrangement for the President. Of course, men can take other steps to let people in here. These are members of Parliament who have been working abroad on behalf of the council. It was not expected in the work programme that there would be a meeting today. People have met up with weekends and anyways, two days on one side and three days on the other, and there has been some flexibility. I find this very rigid, especially in view of the fact that the president's intention to read the letter on the other side but not to look at the five - day rule in this case, in view of the fact that this is not a work programme.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u85	President. I think a president might take a little deep into the years when he dissuades senators for discussing these matters. I don't feel comfortable with it. I think it's important that we keep up with the decision of Saturday meeting that there are generally no meetings on Saturdays, and in general, we expect a plan to be held. We'll find out about Saturday meeting at the 11th hour here last night. The fourth night of the meeting until midnight, and longer we get to know that the meeting will be the next day, on Saturday afternoon. 10. President. All I want to do is ask that we exchange our opinions on this position, and the president is not saying that there is nothing new here. There is something new going on when a Saturday meeting is being announced on no note, when we have just completed the first session of the 2nd Council. ... abundant. There's new news coming in every day about billions and billions of people down here. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I must say, a respectable president, that the greater part of the government is in a lot of trouble with its language. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u86	A respectable president. The problem is that there is a meeting on a Saturday meeting that seems to be because the board of directors wants to finish the discussion as soon as possible. This is such a matter that it needs to be discussed in detail. There's been a lot of discussions so far. I would like to point out some irony, which means that there is a conclusion. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir can't speak. If we're going to finish today, we'll get what we need. (a) How did Paul's words at 2 Corinthians 3: 1 - 5 help us to understand why we are here? Um, which means to the highest. The president has encouraged the discussion to be delayed here and now, which would otherwise not be necessary, so that the discussion might be delayed. paritaprevir On Monday, Birgitta, the daughter of Jónsdóttir, arrived and was able to give his talk after studying what has been going on this week while she was out. It's a very bad impulse. I'm not saying he'll be new, but I just want to point out that this is the problem of holding a meeting on Saturday, especially on such short notice.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u87	A respectable president. Now I feel that the government has reached the bottom of its language. As a result of these respectable people elected to the national legislature board, this situation has somehow become complete and the cause of delinquency. [[Lift us up...]] [[It's the front call of the Senate Hall.]] [[It's the front call of the Senate Hall.]] They are about to start off with a hair sprayer at the Parliaments' courts, and they call it a connoisseurs when it suits them if some call out here and do the most of their own business. [[Up front.]] That's typical. A respectable president. I think there's a certain explanation here for why this filament, which can't be called the second time, is on the side of the government. This is because certain members of the council were in Paris for days discussing climate, and they have to participate in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u88	Is that unusual?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u89	A respectable president, 3rd. remains on this matter. She's left. The case is to be addressed to a committee between the 2nd and 3rd. There is a long talk period at 3rd. The matter and all these senators can participate in that discussion. [[The president calls.]] Low weather has become complete and demeaning, a respectable president. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u90	A respectable president. I think that's what we're talking about. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson should save these statements for himself, but not to direct them to others. What this situation reveals is, of course, how tragic it is that it has become a rule rather than an exception to the fact that the Council's work program is unabated, that no one is paying attention to it, and that no plans can be made. The reason why this was here was to turn the senator Valärg Bjarnadóttir back when she came to give her first talk in the language this morning was, of course, just that no one had expected this meeting. I don't suppose it was a special offense on the part of a president to avoid these members of Congress taking their seats. He simply did not see it for a meeting today. How's that? So, were we supposed to keep the militia until midnight to see if they had to show up today? [[The president calls.]] So, what exactly is the planning of the council?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u91	A respectable president. I don't know why. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson has been watching the Senate debate that has been held. They have been held until midnight many days in a row. I must admit that I haven't listened to each of them, but the things I've heard have been materially and objective, they've not been a problem of speech. It's the government's budget. It's late. Changes are constantly being made. All right, well, then people need to discuss it, a more dignified president, including some of them. 12th p.m. We're out of Suðvest. "Birgitta Jónsdóttir, not just what. 12th p.m. We're out of here. "Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. I reject it as a matter of course. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson says there's a filibuster here to get a man in. What I pointed to was simply that if it happened. A senator does not want to find out because he is in a hurry to finish this matter today rather than give people time to discuss it objectively, as it has been, and find out what is happening in this living document. [[The president calls.]] I'm just pointing out what. It is a matter that, as noted correctly, it is a matter that develops over time. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's what we're supposed to consider. Hv. A senator should show a little more respect for this council when it comes to the right to express himself.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u92	President. It was rather obvious when members of Congress went out. Friday at the council, it was such that it should have been an easy time to come first after the week of their absence. It would have been normal to expect them to come in here next week, and then there would be only 2nd. in progress as would have been normal for when the issue was scheduled. Is it unnatural to expect that in the largest public coverage of the year, people will first be allowed to arrive? I don't understand what's going on. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson is leaving.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u93	A respectable president. We know this, and it is not new that the Council's work programme has not been held in recent years or during the last two terms. We are all responsible. I can't quite figure it out. Although we know this, as often happens in December, since it is not the first time we found in an unorthodox period, which is certainly becoming a traditional time in December, we cannot begin to plan the Council plan out of a few members of the council, as good as any. The members of this body are members of Congress. Everything we do sets an example. You have personally experienced a desire to participate in some conversation while away because of the council's activities, e.g. In international or international committees, and this is very painful, but you cannot ask for a change in plans for the discussion. [[The president calls.]] You must understand the position of the president. [[The president calls.]] You can't make comments with her. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u94	A respectable president. At the General Assembly, we need to appreciate the need to take part in a foreign assignment whether we miss some discussion or payment at the council. This is what each member of the Parliament must do to himself at any given time. I don't downplay a contribution. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir, senator of Porta, was very much involved in the Paris climate convention. She felt that it was important to be there, more important than sharing in this discussion. In this regard, we cannot direct the body of Congress according to the needs of members of Congress. [[Up front.]] With regard to the Saturday meeting here, a respectable president, the members of the management body could expect nothing more than to be found today because at the beginning of a meeting yesterday, the president announced that he expected to complete a discussion on this matter last night. He expected it. It was supposed not to be done. [[The president calls.]] There were loud demands and protests at night meetings. I find it completely unprecedented how the parts of the council are remembered in the President of the Council, with the responsibility of all members of the House of Congress at the General Assembly. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u95	A respectable president. I ask myself, " What is the reason why the president decides to interpret the terms of the militia so narrow? ' The law specifically states that when a deputy takes his seat in the premeditated senator's office, he should sit for only one week unless a council hearing has been suspended or a convened according to a protocol. [[Up front.]] This can be interpreted as being out of force. The Speaker could have interpreted this to the senators in favor, but he decides not to do so. In this article too, it is stated that while a senator sits at a council meeting, he does not receive a wedding unless he is absent because of illness or a member of the council is absent in public affairs for at least five days. The rule of five Congress days is the one we've worked for so far. I don't think the President will take a position with his deputies, the elected representatives here, when he will decide in a way that he will now decide if we look at this rule. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u96	The President has followed the rules and laws that apply. This is also in harmony with what has been followed for the time of the president's being known.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u97	It's just a gym to keep senators away from the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u98	A respectable president. On the basis of my view that the president is a reasonable man and realistic and wise man - I'm going to make it work for now - I know it's out of control. President to the bottom of the discussion on the budget bill is gone. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] This discussion cannot be continued. I've previously referred to that reason, i.e. This is a giant bill that touches the budget bill that came into the darkness last night or night, was submitted. Therefore, I request that this meeting be delayed at once. Second, I request that members of the council be called to a meeting with the president to review the matter discussed here regarding the introduction of the nobles and who have the right to sit in the Senate for discussion and payment. [[The president calls.]] I know it's up to the President. I'd like this meeting to be postponed and resolved. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u99	A respectable president. As I understand the President, there is now an hour off from this point on, i.e. When discussing the President's conference board is concluded, which is likely to mean meeting with the secretary of finance and the representatives of the classes will begin in 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u100	President just gave it to him. That's what I'm talking about. The president did not realize that the senator had requested the word for a meeting manager. President was at...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u102	Then the president's waiting for respect. The president was going to announce that he was going to give an hour off after a speech. A senator on the subject. If it's a misunderstanding. The senator asked for the word for a meeting manager. Of course, a speaker is given the word and begins a time measurement from this point on.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u103	I thank the President for that. I have a talk here for 20 minutes, and I suppose they're expected to say something later. We haven't decided, Company VG, which one of us will be meeting with a financial minister at the time. 13th My speech with answers ends at 2 p.m. 13.20 if I can do clocks. How will the president resolve this time issue? [[Up front.]] There are quite a few of them. It seems that no man can handle his work here. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u104	The president's concern is natural when we begin a discussion about the President's conference board that disrupts the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u105	A respectable president. I think it is absolutely conclusive that the president is faced with a lack of meeting because of the situation presented at the council in terms of the budget debate and as well as the differences and interpretations that have been presented in the Senate session. I think it's a president who helps because there's a lot at stake. There aren't many days to Christmas. There seems to be a number of things under which we will discuss. I'm afraid the government needs to think that the smaller part will have some access to what lies ahead, but it won't get billions in the face every day that even the greater part doesn't seem to know about, except some. Maybe he knew about it. There has been no answer to whether the matter of the Sentencing Bank was included in the categories. I believe, more dignified President, it is wise to postpone a meeting now and make sure that people will have time to talk to each other and determine who will go to the meetings with the committees. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Then the members of the council need to meet in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u106	A respectable president. There is reason to thank for the pause taken at the meeting and the meeting held with the chairman of the Independence Party and with the minister of finance of the Bjarni son of Benediktsson and the representatives of the classes. It's always helpful to talk things over, but I must call for it, a respectable president, that this discussion will be postponed and the bill, as it is now referred back to. The legal committee for further processing. The day has come when what is left here is not a bill for the budget, but some kind of draft. It is both a fault, a failure to make plans, and then it has been announced that significant changes will still need to be made. That is why there is no way for it to be made 2nd. in the General Assembly and material discussions. This is not the bill, it is just a draft or some kind of motion that will make big changes and normal that these changes will occur before 2nd. you will be informed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u107	President. The chairman of the budget board has said that the budget is a living document, but there must now be some reasonable boundaries. While it may be possible to prove that the plow is alive, it may well fall in billions of dollars a day, day after day, without having finished and done before the discussion continues. And so has it been said in a matter of reason. The head of the budget board is saying that there are exactly errors in the opinion of a major body of legal committees and that they are not enough to appear in the committee's opinion but have a reason. þm. In fact, Vigdís Hauksdóttir registrated men here on a lie from the Allegment's symposium, she has held this up to the directors of the Federal TV, and she made it known in a newspaper that she was responsible for the loss of the radio charge of the current government opposition at a meeting of a financial committee. [[Up front.]] So it's quite a bit of an apology request that needs to come from the chairman of a legal committee in addition to a new upset situation here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u108	A respectable president. It's a little strange to be in the 2nd. Funding is still taking place, and this is still a case in which it is evident that despite having increased time to win the situation, the process has been made a mistake. I wondered that in careful workplaces, people would probably pause this discussion and take the case to the committee and kick it through it and try to fix any errors before it came up again so that they were discussing the matter correctly, and they would not have awkward moments like that. Chairman of the Committee and make false claims. Hv. A senator calls out that the committee is being printed. This discussion is well along. I think it's normal, so it's so complicated, the discussion, and so that everything can go naturally, that we pause, men go through the commission, go through the numbers, and try to enter the right case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u109	Mr. President. For the 25 years that I have participated in discussions about budgets, I can't remember anyone else as easily as I can get rid of the progress of primes between discussions as we do today. As the Senate knows, I now view myself as one of the leading committees, and I care about it. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir gets away from this case pretty well. It has now been observed day after day that the work at hand is a wonderful error. A senator has directed. In fact, it calls out that most of the section is being printed. That happens in all the last hours of the 2nd. So I think that's the best of all, and I think it's the best part. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir that we stopped and gave it to him. The chairman of a budget board is empty to cover and print all the things it thinks it needs. However, it is not unusual that from here on in the days, it suddenly comes to the need for a hundred million dollars in the plow it sends away because of the wind. A senator has forgotten to take into account the pay paid staff. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Could it be what you hear when you hear that there is also a need to give full consideration to paid paid doctors? [[The president calls.]] What about the mercenary disabled, Mr. President? [[Up front.]] You could count that long. Why don't we show some of them? The chairman of the budget committee of mercy and allow her to go home and rest, then leave her room to put this piece to rest permanently? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u110	It's directed to the president. Councilmen respecting deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u111	A respectable president. I related in a speech this morning that the committee's opinion is printed because there's an error in it and I've been over it. I also asked for a review of 1st of the budget committees to be printed, as there is an error on page 9. 15 about the same group we're in the greater part of. This is about to be one of the most strange financial hearings I've ever participated in, a respectable president, and is now entering the middle of the seventh year on budget, because this is just not about the budget or the budget bill, it's about a personal grudge to the head of a legal committee. Vigdís Hauksdóttir is discussed in the Generals' symposium of the budget rather than the budget itself. I mean, it's amazing. It's amazing. I'm sitting here listening to all this, and this is probably just the 2016 budget, Vigdís Hauksdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u112	Mr. President. I am one of those who strongly suggest that we postpone 2nd. of financial support, first of all, give a legal committee time to rest, and second, time to settle down. I don't think it's enough to print up the committee's opinion. I don't think it's enough to give up a leading party that will explain the changes that rain on us today and that they will run, not on some small hill, but on billions. [[Up front.]] 1.2 yesterday, 1.5 yesterday, unexploded what will be done with the State Radio. The government continues in its war against the elderly and desperate, and then there is a fog of handling of the next year's budgets or budgets based on stability. In such a situation, there is no doubt that this is the way to get ahead with it. It's a lot of neglect that I can say the word. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir: This is about to become one of the strangest budgets I've participated in, and that is because of the way the government and the more part of the legal committees are finding themselves completely reluctant to complete matters in a proper way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u113	Mr. President. I'm afraid I will take it personally when it comes to it. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir believes she's being treated personally. Not at all. As the World of Congress knows, I've always respected her, and if any senator fought hard for her to become a minister, then I am. Unfortunately, I didn't or did. A senator by my request. Let us not give up in that struggle, but perhaps in order to gain a position in it, we need to put these laws away in a reasonably decent way. Maybe that's what's really up to me by coming up here. I believe we must leave our own private concerns lands and ways, we must take care of the honour and dignity of the council. For the first time here, at least in the last 25 years, large teams have literally fallen out of the law, they have been forgotten, and then debated about it in the media, outside the budget board, and on the other hand, the Ministry of finance, who is to blame. It is clear that there are three factors that need to be considered further. It's still reported that there are parts that are coming in on the stability budget we're sitting at the end of the 2nd. Never heard of it. [[The president calls.]] Is it not true, then, that a person should go home and examine this text once and for all, what is lacking in it? [[The president calls.]] Then let's get together and talk about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u114	A respectable president. It is remarkable how members of the government and government ministers always view themselves as victims, victims of some discussion, victims of discussions at the General and all criticism, I do not speak of the perturbing debates such as financial initiatives, making them some victims. Life doesn't go away on these people. But they're in charge of the head of the head of the board at the council. They are responsible for matters, hence, when cases like budgets are taken into complete failure. There are so many factors in the bill here for discussion that need further consideration that, first of all, the latter section needs to be printed in the middle of discussion. Is it not true, more dignified, that we postpone the discussion, even though it would be only one or two days while printing up so that we have the correct opinion of the committee from the greater part of the discussion to lay the foundation for what we are going to say here? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We have the wrong opinion of the committee. [[The president calls.]] The discussion cannot be based on help that is wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u115	A respectable president. It is quite remarkable how this country seems to be controlled by the victims of democratic discussions, people who cannot take because they are materialistically critical for what they say or do in the power of their office. I don't know if they're supposed to be doing these jobs if they can't handle it this bad and take it so personally. A respectable president. We have come to the position that new information is being produced repeatedly, that in the data submitted by most of the committee is fundamental to the present discussion and that there is not correct information. There are new suggestions being made. They're printing up the names of the majority of the objects. Is it not all right, then, in the name of all the subtlety, to breathe in the belly, to stop this discussion, and to consider the matter? [[The president calls.]] It doesn't take a long time, just so we're all clear what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u116	V.E.G. President. I have not been involved in many financial matters at the General Assembly, but I must still say that this discussion has been very strange, just because it has been so much of a change while we've been talking about it. I welcome it as far as it takes to be printing the opinion of the greater part of the budget, but there's so much more to be done. I don't think that's what. The chairman of the budget is responsible for all that has gone wrong here. Hv. paritaprevir Of course, Vigdís Hauksdóttir can't do anything to make a deal between the government and the countryside yesterday, but I think why. The chairman of a financial committee is responsible for the possibility that the discussion here can be conducted in a reasonable way. [[The president calls.]] That's why I thought she should speak to me about putting off the discussion while we were paying off just what we're dealing with. What does this budget look like?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u117	A respectable president. I really want this meeting to be well into the evening, since there are still a number of senators on the rosary. Even if they do not admit that there is a big language here, it's about something else. I've been a spokesman for a good legal hearing and a suggestion that I've provided a bill seven times on the General Legal Office. Therefore, as a spokesman for this struggle, I am very honest to have the body of error removed from the council opinion. Something else would be irresponsible, but even this too is critical, a respectable president. It is impossible for some members of the body to qualify for that privilege. It is hard to believe that experienced senators who have been sitting here since the last century speak of an evil practice when they know exactly what bills will do through the council. [[The president calls.]] Of course, there's a third page of the Committee. Dear senators. You know exactly what the job is with the bills. Of course, because the matter enters the budget when Vigdís Hauksdóttir is completed in this public talk room, under the program called the 2016 budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u118	A respectable president. I'm sorry. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir thinks the budget is about her. I think she's doing a great job as the chairman of the budget board, especially when it's time for a meeting board, an excellent conference manager, you just have to say. I like what you're doing. A senator's taking full responsibility for the misinformation contained in the committee opinion that I understand is being printed new. It is natural for some billions to be forgotten. The discovery of a financial committee was in the hands of the Ministry, and not much of it was the chairman of the financiership committee. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, could do. I'm happy for this fine discussion, but I'm sorry if I've been involved in something that might have caused it. When it comes to the discussion of the 2016 budget, a senator felt unwell. I was merely going to have a material discussion, so I pray. A senator's reputation would be fine if I had taken part accidentally. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u119	A respectable president. Claws, such as those at the contribution of this budget to 2nd. has never been seen at the council. I'm telling you, I'm telling you. Print error of 1.2 billion has never occurred at the end of the second round. of budgets. The fact that 2030 billion skunks are presented in the Morning Press this morning is just another mess. It is not just the two things that are correct in the bill but one thing after the other and also the huge changes to be made because of the stability of the agreements. It is, of course, a climax when the general body members, even high court attorneys, draw attention to the better - quality candidates, refugees, and sick children'image, the upper middle class of Icelandic society, who are victims of the case repeatedly, repeatedly, in discussions about matters and making themselves a national representative, a university citizen, and a well - standing person, that victims to whom they should feel especially sorry about other and much more serious things. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u120	Frustrated women, yes?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u121	A respectable president. I know why. 2.m. s.. That's why I've seen it. A senator at the Senate Hall. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator knows that this has been a wealth of talks in which new viewpoints have been developed. The discussion continues. Not every discussion at the General Assembly is necessarily a talk, even if it takes time. It's government law. Now it becomes clear that the committee's opinion has to be printed again. Well, in that fact, there is no personal use. It is good to be recognized and handled properly, especially if necessary. A senator believes that the lesser part needs to be treated as well. [[Up front.]] Then there is even more reason to postpone this meeting, keep it at least not on Saturday, just keep it on Monday instead of discussing these matters. [[Foreground on: Yes, yes.]] This is beyond the proposed changes, and then, of course, the entire issue of today's products, etc. There's no reason to hold this meeting right now. We might as well make this wait till Monday.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u122	President. 2nd. The start is when the budget board has completed its coverage on the budget bill of 1st. At the council. On the basis of the work the budget has done in the meantime, the debate here is under attack. That's how the process goes. To make this better than it has been for decades, the council changed the terms of Congress, including those of the United States. That the budget should be displayed earlier than usual, for the 1st. they would pass organized groups of lawsuits, and they would get it out of her mind. All of this has worked out, but there is a budget that fails. A financial committee fails in this regard because she got the budget bill early, she returned it too late, and it was too late, so badly that now it is declared that it is being printed a new opinion on the committee on the part of a financial committee, an opinion this discussion is to be based on. [[The president calls.]] How is it possible, sir, for a respectable president, to postpone this discussion so that we get the opinion of the committee correctly, that it is thought to be a topic of discussion, and can continue to do so here? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Everything else is nonsense.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u123	Mr. President. It is very comforting in itself to hear the chairman of the budget board inform her that she is a spokesman for a more careful approach. That's exactly what we're asking. When it happens that daily rains in billions of people who have been missed or discovered outside the city, when the chairman of the legal committee announces that they need to print up the committee because of the facts involved, and so forth, the situation is that there is nothing other to do than postpone the discussion, to take the matter into the committee, to explain what is left of it, to bring it back, to make adjustments that follow, and to the leading committees at 2ndr. That discussion is the keynote address on the subject of a prime project. This time it was announced specifically that the budget had completed its work and that no charge was stored for the 3rd. That's what we're supposed to do, because it's the normal way of doing it. The best option is if there is no change between 2 and 3rd. It's just to be safe, so that the matter can be reviewed again, so there's just one discussion left and nothing we can do if someone overlooks something in that subject. [[The president calls.]] It's just a perfectly permissible requirement, Mr. Honorable President, that this work will be properly carried out.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u124	Mr. President. There's talk of a plan of careful planning, about providing a well prepared and pondered bill for funding, and then I think it must be a concern when we face it, as this has been attributed and is a very serious matter, that large joints, really large joints, come in day after day. That gives us reason to review the matter. Have other employees been underestimated? For example, what about the medical contracts? It is not enough to say that this will be arranged between the 2nd and the 3rd. and that we can only make a good name till then. There's a lot of wrong reasons here. Hv. The head of a financial committee makes herself a victim, has talked a lot about including the State Radio and the lettering and says that the commission printed because she wants it to be right. She has not apologized for her words or retracted all the falsehoods she has had in many parts of the world. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. It is totally unacceptable to make the discussion carried out on these grounds.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u125	President. I have to say, I'm a little surprised that men don't face the situation as far as the 2nd around us is concerned. ... abundant. We're talking about the fact that there is a lie in a committee party. Now is the time to print it up, correct it, and retract the lies presented there. There's been bugs. We're on new information for hundreds of millions. New decisions are being made. Is there anything vague about it, Mr. President, that it is perfectly perplexing to expect us to interrupt the discussion until there is an adequate basis for the discussion to be received? Is there anything unclear about the fact that this is completely unacceptable? We've come out of a work programme, and the work programme here is below all the caves. [[The president calls.]] The administrative part and the Senate leaders just don't do what they do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u126	A respectable president. Of course, more is involved if they are willing to correct the nonsense presented in a committee program and put forth earnest effort to keep things right. The financial bill contains hundreds of teams, so of course, there may be mistakes and good times when people are ready to correct them. What I find funny, perhaps funny, in a crying way, is that men in the greater part of the budget should remember Samúelsson's Guðjón's Guðjónde with 75 million rather than a teacher's quirk contracts. There's a hot spot that tells a story. I still find it a pleasure to be corrected, not to talk about when there are claims. The chairman of the legal committee has not only made a statement in committees but also repeatedly made a statement in public discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u127	V.E.G. President. I just come up to join those who feel that this discussion should be delayed until everything is set in motion. I wonder, I don't know what the top is. The president thinks we're getting out of this sort of meeting that's going almost exclusively to this team, to the President's conference board, where everything seems to be in chaos, unfortunately. I'm not accusing one or no one of the wrong practices or anything else, but it's clear that something better goes along and I can't understand why we can't call a legal hearing on Monday morning, settle the case, and then finish the discussion on Monday. It would be the best, and it would not be the least to show the nation that we are trying to do it well. We should let her rest only in the councilmen for the weekend and cool off. It has not been a blessed week for the Generals, the General or the Government. I think it would be a real shock if the President of the Generals had a good name today and we were going to be back on Monday.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u128	A respectable president. A financial bill was submitted early, but it was late returned from committees. It can happen. In the last few days, there are two changes to billions. It can happen. Most of the part needs to be printed by the committee. It can happen. According to what? 2.m. Smoke. This includes printing up the understatement of the memory of the object. And that can happen. A meeting has been nonstop for a very long time and has lasted for days until midnight, for the last four days. The idea of a 2nd. It must be that we discuss what goes on in the budget and the data that come from that work. Here, however, is where the commission is actually carried out at the same time as a meeting. If it is our intention to observe a meeting and to observe what is happening on the committee, aside from what seems to be, we can control it, especially when Saturday is used for a meeting, and we don't know how long it will be. I sometimes wondered when you should review the data at this council because many of us use the weekends, especially Saturday, to review the data because otherwise there will be no time, including when it's a silent conference. [[The president calls.]] Let's check the data over the weekend and we'll talk about this again on Monday.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u129	Mr. President. I have to agree with what. The last speaker, that's exactly what's happening. Not only would it have been necessary for them to read but we would have needed information for a meeting on Monday. Now we don't know anything. - Is there a table in effect?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u130	What's next?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u131	What's next? Will there be routine committee work next week? It would be desirable to know at the highest level. A president, if he will. The program has been canceled. It happened yesterday. I'm afraid the roundest way we've come to know too well this time of year has to be solved. If we're going to enter the 3rd. A well - prepared and well - prepared person needs time. In order for us to have a careful discussion at the council Hall, it is not best that we stand here with too little information, not even information but numbers, nothing how, or where they land, and what the rest of the government funds will be. You can't offer people this. [[The president calls.]] I sure hope that's the best. The president will see to it that this meeting soon ends so that the rest can be seen and we can get into the discussion after the weekend. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u132	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the president for a warm address here at the outset of a Roman custom that truly brought me joy. The discussion that has been going on for days has been important. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, in the press, said yesterday that important information is still being added. I allowed myself to doubt it, thinking that it was due to a little congregational experience. A member of the council, but after a while, I was hardly there, but I made a significant discovery. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson was absolutely right. When you open the Morning newspaper, you find that it informs us that the budget is missing tens of billions of dollars, 20 to 30 billion on account of the pension commitments associated with collective agreements. Yesterday, however, because in the proposals of a more part of the budget board, I had to figure out a figure that would have been worth nearly 1,200,71,300 billion, who would have been miscalculated because of the teacher's contracts. To this day, we hear - still grudgingly leading the respectable chairman of a legal committee that I may need to direct a few words to too. We also hear that there may be some additional evidence missing in the greater part of the project because it is not clear whether your pension debt has been expected because of the expert's collective contracts. You'll wonder, of course, what kind of work you're doing here. In view of the council and the respect of the council, don't we, Mr. President, need to ask ourselves, " Do we not need to reexamine the budget and the legal profession? ' Now it has been noted earlier that I am among those who view themselves as supporters and lovers of it. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, chairman of the budget board. I loyally supported her in that work. I was also one of the senators who tried to get it into the position of a minister. It didn't work out that we both ate, me and the other. Senator. I have to say, because I care about what's happened. I feel that all of us need to set specific rules. We cannot allow ourselves to handle things personally, as it were. A senator responded to members of the council earlier. It is here offering suggestions for changing what can be said to be the most important bill produced each year. It is the bill that literally sets the stage for the advancement of the State for the next 12 months. It is also the bill that, all equally, shows the political cutting lines between political categories. It is perfectly normal under the circumstances that in the case of the difference in ideological views, they will be caught off guard. Then you can do it. A senator would not do what he had just done, come and say that these are personal attacks. That is not the case, as it is, at all with the people here. Since I'm talking about manners and how the budget board's work and how it shows itself to the outside world, of course, I must also say that a financial committee is probably the most important committee we have to control within our ranks. She's a lot of media. Her officers, too. Everyone involved in the financial affairs of the State and who operates with such an important committee must be careful of how they act. Mr. President, it cannot be said that time and again the members of the Committee have to complain literally about the well - being of the members of the committee. I don't feel that it's possible when the director of the Land Hospital comes in the press and reports that he was under attack on the president of the legal committee. Then I'll say, "This is it, and that's it. At that point, the head of a budget board must begin to examine its course. She should not examine him in such a way that when such things happen, she will step forward and declare that she is subject to spiritual violence by the presidents of the Land Hospital. Mr. President, is it, then, that if those who have spoken for great and strong interests and are doing so violently and out of faith, who probably committed confidential work, they may be accused of spiritual violence on the part of one of the top officials of the council? Do they deserve to be told that they are making a fuss at a meeting of the financial committee? That's what I think we need to examine. Kindly and with great respect for what. So I direct her to look at a little of her walking and realize that her respect is in the respect of the council, her manner defines how guests at her meetings and legislators experience the council. Mr. President. A great deal of this has been discussed in what way the wealth of the Kingdom has taken place. The vascularist who now pops out with The Economist magazine in his hands has called for the use of big lines. That's what I think men have done in this discussion. One of the things that I feel is that many of the management forces have come and discussed the larger lines of this terms and the last terms of the term as well. No one has done this in the most clear and expressive way. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, who went through the great work that the last government did during the last term. Hv. Councilmen, such as Óli Björn Kárason, Willum Þór Þórsson, Karl Garðarsson, are at great risk. A senator and vice president of the Fundament Committee, Guðlaugur - Þór Þórðarson, stood silent under that talk without making comments on the scene. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon son of a member of the last government. I believe it involves late but important recognition of the important work that was then accomplished. The situation is also that no longer has to be tied. There is nothing to argue about that in itself. Hv. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, however, pointed out, three years of age, that all of this is in jail. All the hard work that was done to restore a government fund to a good standing is properly described there by government officials. These are the big lines. The red cable in what has been going on in the government's affairs for the past six, seven, eight years is the fact that the previous government managed to plug into holes in a government fund where a financier's financial balance went over, managed to tear it together, was able to establish a system that was well supported by finches, and thus was able to trust the foundation of industry, especially the seabed, that when it became a government trade, a new government was restored to a system that had been established. What was more, the government accepted a government fund that was about to reach zero and was at zero if irregular teams were removed. This is what really matters. These are the big lines that are about to appear. I'm not going to say anything. Government. She's done a lot of good. It is proved true that the restoration work that has been done against the Icelandic economy and the Icelandic economy has been accomplished by four governments. They've all exerted themselves. Of course, the first government was the one in power at the time of the collapse, the government of Geir H. Haardes. Let us not forget, Mr. President, that, at that time, action was taken prior to the most important action adopted by that government. It was when the government passed through the Moriscos, which then had to barbecue in the right answers and put a bill here for emergencies. The curse of distress was the basis for the restoration that has been brought forth. Two governments, both under the lead of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, paid their way to that. It has to be said just as it is that the second government, the majority government, worked nothing more than a miracle of bringing Iceland back in. Under the circumstances, the International Cash Fund had predicted 14% of unemployment. Because of the operation of that government as we speak. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon was the main factor in launching, so unemployment never licked more than 10%. So at that time, the World Bank also foretold that there would be an increase in the range of commercial life almost melted to a few particles, all of it bankrupt. It was spoken of as yours. A company would go bankrupt. It was also successful. The hard debts, the bad debts, the banks, and the new banks that are going very well today were managed. Let's not forget it now when we're talking about the big lines, that's what we're talking about. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kárson and Guðlaugur Þórðarson called for, especially, that they were able to prevent society from literally stopping. At the same time, there were about three weeks in which we did not have a currency to buy drugs and energy. I remember as sad a day when I was the minister that I had to pick up the phone and call the Heathrow Airport to keep a plane that was about to start stop because they had stopped trusting Icelanders. Here's the deal. It has been almost a fairy tale, as if how it has been handled. These are the big lines that have become the market and development of state funds over the last few years. The first government was able to establish the new wealth of state, which had come into operation, a system that fanned, a banking system that provided its own and commercial resources, all of which were intact, and even played a powerful role in raising up a new industry, which today has proved to be our salvation, namely. Tourism service. It was not the least by means of the government and the presumption of spending a huge amount of money at the time, when the money was called from all sides, and put on another thousand million in taking advantage of the situation and benefit of the evil, which was to promote the fact that all was cheaper than before, the dollars fell by half, and as a result, it began here an untimely tourist stream. It is this industry that today keeps up - to - date the controversies in society, and it is likely that the community will have no less than 362 billion dollars. next year. The government that has since taken over has done a great deal of good. But I'll deal with her a serious political disagreement on one important point. It's a political thing, and I'm not saying that she's done anything technically, but political differences I do with it to the point where it seems to be the belief that it's a competition, and it's appropriate for the current position to reduce the consumption, to weaken the financial institutions of the state. In this situation, when the situation is very delicate even though we are in good shape, I feel that way, and I notice it. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's mask similarly speaks that throwing away the potential of earnings has been a mistake. They should have been much more efficient, as was done in the last government, and used for two purposes: first, in order to respond to things that are still missing from the collapse in the interior of the state, especially within health care. I also mention one group of lawsuits that have been completely unsettled by the garden of this government and is hardly mentioned in the budget and by no means in the majority of existing proposals. It's a education system. However, in order to pay off anonymous debts. You see, that is not enough in these circumstances. As land production continues to increase, this has been a good economy for all streets since mid-Aust 2010 and because the balance value remains unchanged, it falls proportionately as a proportion of GDP. That's what these gentlemen and gentlemen are boasting about. They point out that the state's debt is falling, but when it's examined, it turns out that it's not, the ultimate number is the same. It is noted in many places in the popular opinion that we have today, as well as in a national budget agreed here on a game of evil and against our great protests in the state of government last spring and that it should reach the year 2018, there is nothing to be added to a anonymous debt, it is not. This means that in this situation, Mr. President, we are giving up almost no more government funds. The remainder of the 18 billion level was expected, but more than half of the budget has been reduced to over 10 billion. I must say, Mr. President, there is virtually nothing of a government fund that has on the income side of nearly 700 billion. Then we can't have anything to do with it. In such a situation, when nothing is to be done because there is hardly a table for it, I say that it would have been necessary to work hard and try to trust the government's income institutions so that we could both meet the need for investment in the interior of the state, especially in the health sector, and pay off debts. That's what I think was important. I believe the big line when you look at these years is the inaction of the present government to build for the future. What's the worst blood money we Icelanders have to pay today? It is the interest fees, the fees we have to pay because of the loans we owe to the state. Admittedly, after a dramatic fall in the collapse of the state's debt, the foam suddenly dried up and dried up like dew before the sun, and the left unsurpassed, ruined income stocks. Of course, as we recall on the field back then, in 2009 we had a gap of gaps, hollowing for 217 billion years. That's what happened back then. In other words, the government was able to remedy the situation through intense labor. Now we are in position to realize that since 2010 the plans made by the government in cooperation with the AGS have stood at a point and a stick. Even the unemployment stake today in 2015 is almost the same as it was then registered in government plans and AGS, i.e. plus/minus 3%. Today she's 2.9%. Under these circumstances, of course, it would have been possible for us to reduce the debt of the State to a considerable extent. Now I know that it may be possible when it comes to a stable supply, which I'm not going to make that much conversation in my speech now, about to receive a government fund, and when it is possible to destabilize those assets, as one remembers, only 8 billion in cash, all the rest are some fatigues that need to be paid, it will probably be possible to reduce the debt of the state considerably, but there are also certain barriers. Of course, what we would have had to do is be here with a long-term plan based on the income populations that have been tried to build up and trust and that have yielded very good results in the last government without leaving Iceland in some very high tax area. In particular, I review that an OECD survey was conducted, and it was found that despite all the grouchy members of the government, Iceland was in the middle of the way. We weren't a low taxes country, we weren't a great tax country either. In other words, the tax stocks were very stable, very dense. What, then, on a current journey, what would they have done now in a situation where a fishing route, for example, is in a hurry? I'm afraid we'd not only been funded to give a little bit of expedient about the infrastructure, both the cumulative need for transportation and the health and education system, but at the same time, we could pay off debts. How much did the government probably dismiss to the day of dato during this ultimatum period? I listened to what I heard. paritaprevir In his speech yesterday or tomorrow, Björn Valur Gíslason tore it here, and he concluded that there are 100 billion. Would that not matter if we could have paid down debt to a name of 100 billion? Would that not translate any billions of people that we would have from playing extra entrails to go into our system? Hv. paritaprevir This was Jón Gunnarsson's son, who gave a big speech, and even wet off his back. Like the rest of us who are involved in this discussion, he wanted to discuss these big lines. Hv. The vice-president of the budget and the various póttisms, such as the one I mentioned here, and less so. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, has talked about it over and over again, having to go over the big lines. I think I've been over the big lines until this year. That's what happened. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, too. The other one. However, members of Congress do not have the problem, nor do they. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, who now begs men to draw up the big lines, relied on him on the development of the Kingdom Fund. I think they're smart, and I'm showing that they're thinking ahead of time, because of course we need to ask ourselves, " Where will evolution be? ' It is also a little dangerous for them, showing that they are proficient, to ask men to examine the big lines. What's the big line on the bill we're talking about? Is it not the fact that this government has failed to use the skills of the bank manager of the Lands Bank for the purpose of bringing in a trust fund and thus continuing the work of the previous government to strengthen its infrastructure? The big line on this bill is, for example, that there is literally no leftover on the budget and yet, as I've already traced it, it's leaned on because of the change in the budget. The small amount of waste on the bill was reduced from 18 billion to 10 billion. The big line is also that in this bill, nothing is being paid off the debt of the state, as I mentioned earlier. In fact, the greater opinion is that in many places, echoing the state budget adopted last year that there will be no payment on debt in the next three years, and it will be at first when the wind takes place in 2019 itself. The big line, the big one. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, in this bill, is that this is the third year of a series that we cut off in the same process and don't pay off debts. It matters. There is also one of the big lines in this: Once again, the government's budget is no longer supporting the UN Bank's financial policies. The shine between them is likely to be one of the indirect motivations that contribute to the growing trade that is now at relatively rapid growth and are about the last thing we need. Hv. The members of Jón Gunnarsson and Óli Kárason Kállson, the big line on this bill, is also that they lack all the vision they have in order to build for a better Iceland. They do not look to the future. It will come, for example. so that the bill shows an almost absolute lack of education policy. They're throwing some 50 billion people in cooperation with the University of Akureyri and Iceland's University on computer studies. Bifrost, HR, and I think HA gets 20 million each. There's no line. Still, it is clear that if there's something we need to jump up in Iceland, it's the education system. We see that there are very differentities. All we need to do is check out the McKinsey report. It turns out that at the same time we're spending 29% more in elementary school, we get less out of it than most other peoples. We're far worse at PISA, for example, than we do in the neighboring nations. At the same time, we place less money than the neighboring nations in high school, 5% less than the average in the North countries. Yet, what is striking is the foundation of creative thinking, novelties, innovations, and initiatives in Icelandic commercial life, our university universities, get 36% less than colleges in other countries of the north. I would have wished that by the third year's election season, a new government would be going to play the cards in this regard. That's all there is to it. There is no future view of education in this financial bill. Still another major line on this bill is the fact that there are 3 billion people needed to manage the Land Hospital, or to be tolerated, compared with what the hospital officials receive. When they come to the branch office and give them strong arguments that no one has ever done to refute them, they are simply saying that they are grouchy, and they are accused of resorting to poor spiritual violence on the committee. The big line that may dominate everything else in this bill for financial gain is that it shows that the government does not seem to have the strength that some government ministers have to cope with expenses. At that time, people cut down and stopped the leak that flowed through the gaps in the Kingdom Fund. Independence, especially the highest. Secretary of the budget, please. The vice president of the budget board, what? Senator Jón Gunnarsson, not to mention why. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kármson, looks like he's completely flung down. It was pathetic to listen to what happened. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kámsson to hear it. paritaprevir The Guðlaug - god of Þór Thord, the son of Þórðarson, came here to cry, to be half-hearted in the speech of the Generals, and to complain that they had nothing to do with the unseen forces against them, whether it was government, ministry, or anyone else, they could not define it. They agreed and confided in the council that they had not been able to withstand this stream. It seems that during the first term, there were men who could do it. One of them is sitting here in the gym called Steingrímur J. Sigfússon. He is the senator whom the independence party seem to be most afraid of in this discussion because they have not dared to come here and try to refute one word of what he was saying about the work of the previous government, because it can't be done. [[Up front.]] Now it is simply a three - year - old who has been pacified in the stone of government bills. The same is true of those who flee in the back room and take refuge under the skirts of their skirts. Chairman of the budget board, they can't escape the fact that it was the way it was described. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I'm gonna take an example of myself, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u133	Would you like to go under your skirt?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u134	- I'm a man of taste. Mr. President. Instead of paddling with some government officials or talking to each other, these men were to come to experienced people, for testing balls, and for those who have faced the same problem. In case of a moment. Councilmen do not have the courage to speak for a moment. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, to find out well how they could have come to their old friend who is standing here, the Össur of Skarphéðinsson. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] It's right to go over it a little bit. When I was a minister of foreign affairs in the fall of 2009, I took the initiative to cut down an average of 23% from an existing financial bill, plus 2% more. The following year, 2010, I took the initiative to cut down 16.4% and 9.5% in 2011. I shut down six e-mails. [[Step forward: Good for you.]] [[Foreground on: Well done.]] May I recall to the excellent spokesmans that they should shrink the booth, and that they are now, after injuring me in the last term, for the closing of the embassy, the party suggesting to open the embassies that I closed at that time. One thing like that. The members of the Independence Party made a literal suggestion in the Fund was closing two embassies. It was beginning to happen. One of them was the embassy in Strasbourg. Now, suddenly, members of the Independence Party make it their special wish that the embassy I closed for savings be opened again. They were absolutely right then when they sat on a line of reasoning with me, pointing out that having two embassys in France was a luxury. I totally agreeed with them. I'm asking why. Councilmen Jón Gunnarsson, Óli Björn Kárason and former president of Iceland's Legal Association: What's changed? [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] What Has Changed? They will laugh at nothing because they are red in the face of shame because they have completely turned over the magazine. What I, former prime minister, Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, have. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon and others were able to fight against all those who constantly wanted more and more expenses. They failed to do so because they do not have bones in their own political legs. Now, this is the situation. [[Upwards: spades.]] Now, this is the situation. I don't think it's surprising that those senators who are constantly tearing themselves down to the bottom of the fact that they're expanding the booth here and where--where are they then in the field when their own ministers come up with some of the most amazing ideas you've ever heard? For example, consider traveling, a growing industry that needs our attention. There are already two organizations on the field. So what makes it the highest. Secretary of the Ragnheiður Elín Árnadóttir? She needs to shoot some chair under a good man's ass; I'm not saying the goods; I'm not even going to call it biting, but it's made up for a special institution, the management center of travel, which costs when it's standing up for another billion. Where, then, are these valiant warriors who want to fight the stupid spending of their taxpayers? Where was it? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson is already his sister and sister, the best. Industrial Minister, proposed the wrongest motion that has seen the light of the day, at least The last 10 years? He sat in the hall and kept his mouth shut. He now sits in his room, and he laughs because he does not have political opportunities to follow his good convictions in these matters. That's how you might make a case according to a case. There is nothing in terms of what these men say when they talk about us in a position of government always calling for more expenses. The difference between us and them is that we follow the suggestions for income. That's what's always been our whole thing. We do not offer some foolish suggestions about unnecessary matters, such as setting up a new embassy in Strasbourg or the management center of travel. I'm asking why. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson and if he does not trust to answer that question, why? paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason and if he's not too brave, I'll take the one who's the bravest, and we'll know we'll never fail and never escape in fear, huh? paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson, former president of the Legal Guild, I ask these gentlemen, hoping that they will have the courage to get into the next chair and tell me what the evidence is that it is justified to spend the taxpayers' money making the number two couriers in France. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] They were successful without a special embassy during the last term. That's what I wanted to talk to these men about, since I had a chance to deal with them here. There are a lot more things I wanted to talk about, but there is one thing that I want to consider in the end. That's easy. It's U.S. Marshalalis. It is an institution that brought us luck to unite in setting things right at the time. We have always insisted that this institution become as independent and that it is not brought anywhere in one way or another. For one thing, one of the factors that mattered to her independence was that no ministers and no executional authority would be involved in choosing who sat down in that office, that would be chosen here by us. It's part of the fence we've hit that institution as one of our main surveillance agencies and tools to support the Commission. For many years, I have felt that the most powerful tool that has ever been that institution is independent of initiative. I have discussed it at the council, I have offered suggestions on this, and I have discussed it with an agent some years ago whether it was not necessary to install a special budget where it was clear that what he could be done would be spent on the initiative. An agent has made it clear that he believes that this is desirable. His annual report after another year shows that because the office is basically a victim of its own success, i.e. They respond so well to the needs of our community, so there are more and more urgent matters. That's why, but while the funding for the Agency is not raised, the initiative checks are sitting on the side. We've seen what these initiative checks have done. They led to the introduction of a well - known wound from the European Commission that involved the interaction between the hospice and the executive, where each lie on top of another was literally plucked out of the wound. As a result, the tenth part of the Commission had to resign. Although that matter never ended with the High General, it was absolutely certain that this was not well received among the rulers. It is absolutely set that within the parties, especially in the highest powers, men prefer to work rather from promoting initiatives. Mr. President. That is why, here, a small proposal of about 15 million is made in initiative reviews by the emissary of the Generals. This is in harmony with his own desire. He wants one man, one person, one lawyer, to do them exclusively. His last report revealed that he had eight or nine cases that he thought were necessary to investigate in order to protect the citizens from too much power in the European Commission, but he could only take two. I think it's very important. I encourage the entire U.S.R. to unite in this proposal. It's symbolic.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u135	Mr. President. Thank you. A candidate for extensive talks. It was certainly about the big lines that men have described after they are spoken about here. Hv. A senator stopped at the fact that we have held it up during the discussions, and I could hear no better than that he felt the same way, that, unfortunately, in the three states of government, no improvement would have been made if we looked at the premium of the budget for 2016. This is my conclusion after examining these points on a variety of standards, e.g. by looking at the state's survival at the base of the network, except for irregular teams, then, unfortunately, there is no improvement in the state's recovery in 2014, 2015, and 2016. There was an interesting answer to a question from what? paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar of the flung-corrected source of state funds, which I'm pointing at. I want a senator to check. It shows that after a dramatic improvement in 2009-2013, there is a slight improvement in the rate adjusted initials between 2013 and 2014. The rest is 3.9%. But what is going to be the result this year? Returning to 2.9% remaining. What is the direction of the adjusted initial equation in 2016? Returning to 2.3% rest. For example, if this standard is laid, the contribution of the State is getting worse. The fluctuation corrected element is shrinking year by year in the hands of this government. They take comfort in the fact that public debts are reducing as a proportion of GDP. Of course, that in itself is positive, but while there is no payment on the merits of the debt, they need to be paid the same worth of interest, taking into account interest in interest of interest levels. This, too, is short - lived heat. Because more part of the legal committee is informed by members of the Committee that the trauma of the State's Penitentiary now has to be updated by 126.5 billion. [[The president calls.]] The media claims to have information that this is a lack of appreciation for 203/430 billion. [[The president calls.]] Then a level of GDP will return to worse debt, taking into account the Penitentiary commitments.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u136	Mr. President. I find that very interesting information as a boy. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon transports the council to a fluctuated prototype showing, in effect, that the state's survival will get worse in the next three years even. That's a lot of news to me. Then we can see that in what the governor called it "gooder " we are not achieving the position they had expected, that there would be a government fund with much solid foundations, stronger legs, and might take a little easy on ourselves by going to pay off a worthy debt. No such thing seems to be in the pipes. It's like men have decided to hang their hat on the possibility that it comes here with a lot of money from the fatigues we get into our share in so-called stability, but it's gonna take time to put them in prices as we know that only a small portion of them is in cash. It seems to me that if you are to draw the only conclusion from the budgetary bill we're doing here, in what the head of the bank calls basking goodness, and most people believe that there's a lot more good, truly more economic growth here than anywhere else in Europe, but that way it's also been essentially unbroken since mid-Auxed 2010, the state fund under the leading self-control party is still just a conclusion that is right at zero. That's it. At that position, he would have had to give 50 to 170 billion more. It should be noted, then, that the independent party threw away the amount of money that exactly corresponds to that amount.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u137	Mr. President. Of course, this can be measured by various standards. We do not need to try to use things, such as the fluctuation adjusted equation or the economic rhythm corrected predictions, which are certainly limited. In times of uncertainty and change, they are not an unscrupulous device to try to measure things. I have, for example, leaned on the fact that the best measure is the problem on a base, apart from irregular joints. If we just look at the overall equation, it tells us that in the fifth or sixth year of economic growth, and in what the bank manager calls the largest bank bank manager, the remainder of the total balance is 10 billion, and now in two days nearly 3 billion more for a board. So the remainder goes down to 7 billion if we look at the changes in the greater portion, the payment of the teacher's labour contracts, the state and rural society on the issues of the disabled. What's 7 billion leftovers of 700 billion budgets? Of course, it's nothing. It is far within limits, for, for example, the pros and cons of the industry are obviously doglike in their performances, should we tell their own people, is it not something related to the beard? They said in the Morning Press yesterday that this was completely unacceptable. It is as if out of my mouth they were speaking when they point to the fact that the state can't resist any opposition, if it has come to a corner. This is reality. As soon as something breaks down or even breaks down, the state's budget is at an angle, since the underlying government business has not improved in the past three years and will not improve in this three - year period until the next year if we look at the financial bill. This is simply the reality. If you make some money out of stability, it's an irregular income if something deserves to be called it. They will only be used once. Of course, the long - term effect will be positive in the sense that it will all be used to pay off debt and the cost of interest is reduced by billions, but this in itself does not alter the long - term state's underlying business. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That is more than anything else we should look at, those who would like to have long - term reasons to guide the development of the welfare community in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u138	Mr. President. I would define interest rate as part of the state's underlying operation. In the case of high repertoire spending, there could be some breach in the wall we need to maintain on payment today. You could say that there would be some long - term improvement. The rest I agree with, I believe the government is making a big mistake by keeping financial resources at hand. It was natural, especially during the last few days, that their overall picture is not clear, and they have not even been able to explain it to the fine head of a financial committee what they really believe must be done in order for the conclusion to be wrong. In the present situation, how remarkable it is that we are right at zero! Here's a profit raise at 4.5%. Unemployment is down to 2.9%. Everyone has a very good job foundation. There has been no uncertainty but a possible lack of ability to sell macroil, which, however, was successful at a rate of 20 to30% lower, whereas increases were observed in other species. It's all in here. In such a situation that you cannot expect for a long time, there is not much to be done in order for us to fall apart. For example, some developments in distant continents would lead to changes in oil prices that would be unfavourable in Iceland again, and all of this would be out of order. I believe that governments are vulnerable to dangerous problems in putting the government's money away. As I've traced here, people just don't have the bones that we had to deal with the cost pressure, nor do they have to deal with the income raise so reasonably. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u139	A respectable president. I'm sorry that the members of the board, whatever. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson called for a reply to his budget bill, not to a speech at any given moment. Senator. I would surely have wanted to hear what the senator called for. I just want to come in and hear a vision. A senator on them. Now we hear the officials beating on their chests and speaking as if people are proud of what goes on in health. Yet authorities say that I keep all the medical institutions in the country that there is not enough money to go into this suit. Preferably, it is the Landspians we see year by year and all the years since that government began, i.e. Then, in our country, we began to benefit, not enough of the hospital. The money's all put in. They put 80 billion in debt spills. Of course, the fall of debt occurred mainly in 2013, but in these budgets, 15.5 billion are involved while the health system is starving. I would like to ask the senator about his priorities, if he would agree that it is relaxed, and what he would say about 90% of the people in surveys that they prefer to improve the health system in these financial laws. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u140	I agree first with what. A senator said that the bad is a sin. The members of the council to whom I made my point and had in their own speeches challenged me to come and talk about the big lines should bounce away. I was talking about the big lines, and then they were steaming up like morning dew. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] It is remarkable that they too did not rely on the new institutions they are now building, the same men who were beating me to close the embassy that was positive. I did. Then they're opening the embassy. I'm saying it's very strange to see how hard and cowardly men will be. For the health system, it's absolutely certain that the nation wants to put money in it first and second, there's money, that's perfectly clear. This takes 3 billion more in the national hospital. There's been very little reasoning from all sides. Hv. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson put it so that even in some parts of the world, the health system would be a bed on a literal scale. I think he mentioned Grensás. Hv. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson, who is now expecting one and perhaps there, said in his talk that he expected his administration to be at peace with the hospital, and he there mentioned a number that would be some kind of intermediate number, 1◯2 billion. That's what it said. A senator in his speech. It's better than nothing. I think it's important that we enjoy our national hospital. However, there is some ideologies that are appearing at the highest level. Secretary of health. One reason is that he wants to put more on the health care and that by means of investments there he will reduce the need for the national hospital, but he realizes that he will later, of course, be doing both because he is working together. Of the health minister, however, the main thing is that he seems busy pretending he does not exist, being under radar. It was so successful yesterday that when Kári Stefánsson wrote a medical attack on the government, he was able to do so without even referring to Kristján Þór Júlíusson, the highest. A health minister who is clearly forgotten, including those who work in the system.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u141	A respectable president. I've noticed this, too. I've noticed why. Fortunately, members of the management team speak well of this and all of us seem to want to build the Land Hospital from the ashes. It's like there's no connection on the government board. I wondered, " Is it not a matter for senators to realize that they are democratically elected like the Ministers, and they are supposed to have caused? ' I urge them to keep encouraging their people to submit to the will of the nation. We agree on this, and we all see that there is plenty of money. I just don't understand that political bitch when 90% of the people want something firmly, and that's the score of the U.S., I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Well, President, isn't it just great to do that exactly because next election will be elected? Isn't it the ticket to the next government if these fine ministers decide to put 100 billion, 60 or 80, or whatever it takes to build a new hospital? I just can't figure out why people don't.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u142	Mr. President. I'm assuming the former part of an antiquated object. A senator's goal was to pivot. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson up and encourage him. In his defense, I'd like to say that it is a little difficult for private senators to plan on rubbing on such matters with stewards who show little understanding, even less so with the chairman of a legal committee who has taken great power and literally views health officials as personal enemies, such as the Director of the Land Hospital. She has publicly said that she views him as the source of spiritual violence. This is a situation that the Senate needs to resolve in some way. It may be an insoluble assignment in this special situation to try to achieve a logical conversation between the council and the legal authority on the other hand and the representatives of this major health agency. There is one misjudgment that I feel is in the opinion of the Continent. She says: We decided that this year we were going to place this much in a national hospital, and it's just to do it. There are two distinct ways in which the nation is ignored, growing, and growing old. The pressure at the hospital will be more intense. Then another thing happens, which is the way men completely overlook the same thing, the tourist current here is the equivalent of a new model of 50 to 260 you. ... andaremore and less buttoned around the national hospital. He gets breathless when something happens. Now I don't know how much stress this is, but I see, for example, that this new village in the neighborhood of tourists has completely changed the sector of the milk industry, has sucked up every drop of milk that has been made. [[The president calls.]] It works there. [[The president calls.]] I think it affects the needs as well as the demands of the hospital. Then we need to meet these three new variables.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u143	Mr. President. Hv. The head of the budget board has held the defense in the disposal of those who have been around the budget under discussion that it is a living document. That can be true. Indeed, it has been interesting to observe the changes over the past few days that have a direct bearing on the upcoming budgets of the next year. I have to say first, the kind of work this has actually revealed is not good. The bill appeared quite unusually early because the second Tuesday of September this year was as early as it can be. Is that not why the bill was distributed immediately on September 8 or 9? Nevertheless, more than two weeks above the Work Programme was required to dissuade the case to the 2nd. So it was cracked about two weeks before we began this discussion. Then comes the big-scale commission from a greater part of the budget committee, just the big-time beautifier, and I'm not talking about things like a plagiontoon to create the General Building that should be supported by a 100 - year - old edition of the Guðjón of Samúelsson from boarding outside the Tiranna in a completely different place on the property. When the Council begins to build a modern office house for himself in the late 21st century - no, 100 - year - old cases of dormitories are to be used, the prime minister and his minister of a financial committee have arrived there. Of course, there are some statements in the committee's view. In fact, some of the points related to the State Radio were actually misinformed, as well as other factors that have led to the release and printing of the committee's chairman. More important, during the last few days, however, things that are, in effect, completely unprecedented, have appeared, as if they simply forgot to assume that it was nearly 1.2 billion years away. The expenses of a collective agreement with a teacher in the country, just forgotten, and here comes an embarrassing adjustment made by the chairman of a financial committee with a lengthy report, which is, in fact, just another committee's opinion trying to expound this. Yesterday, the highest wrote. Secretary of finance, along with other advisers, under agreement with the rural communities for financing the group of disabled people, who were then taking over, which is good, positive, and important, and had to be handled. It was obvious that the rural communities were in the process of returning the issue to the State unless they were released there, but that remains the expenses that the rural communities say are up to 1.5 billion dollars. intervening into the seminary, which is at the expense of the government. This is achieved by permanent increases in 0.04% of the exposure, so that more of the income taxes are transferred to the rural community in the form of an outback, to the State. And in the other hand, the switch between propentan and the government's common tax income will go to an equation that has been for many years of 2.12% now being taken up to 2.355%. This is a significant change, since this is a 0.235 percentage point rise in all the government's tax institutions, which pass through an equation rather than to the State. What the balance of income is exactly what I haven't calculated, but it's definitely close to a billion just because of these teams. These are significant changes. With the remainder of the total balance of just over 10 billion, as it was headed for the adjustment of more of the legal committee, which took the rest down by nearly 5 billion, of course, the overall equation is rapidly moving down to zero. I just hope there's not a few more days where you discover one to one and a half billion a day and it's going to be zero in just 24 hours. This is the reality, unfortunately. The budget is to be closed with very little leftovers, within a margin of error, as it may be called when measuring for a few billion dollars. The long - term view of the state's financial affairs in terms of the same emphasis on political disability when it comes to earning money - you can call it only political disability, it is as if an independent party is kept out of the mind of ever taking the income side. There is only one thing in their program, that is to lower taxes regardless of the need, regardless of how unwise that emphasis is. However, there are many indications that the Kingdom will be higher in the years that you had hoped. Then, for example, I will mention the investment rate that we are likely all aware of that the future will not be run into many years with as low investment levels as the current state is driving on, perhaps releasing 1% of GDP. The long-term average is above 2%. That's twice what we're doing in the state's new investments today. If we take investments and maintenance of both state and rural society, it may mask more than 2% of GDP but should be 3.5% if we look to the long term average. However, it is the future presidents as they are drawn in this tiny budget that follows a bill for financial purposes, and I have tried to draw attention to but have limited success in these materials. I'm most surprised that the political debate in Iceland has not gone away more about the vision of the future that right men draw up in their stocks, and that, for example, people such as the labor movement haven't looked at this document and asked the government, "Wait, is it where you're going? " Because where are we being taken? Yes, according to this tradition, e.g. on page 24. Forty-five percent of the budget is to be prepared so until and over the year 2019 that the cost, without irregular measures, will go down to about 25% of the gross domestic product. Instead of what? Well, 2803-30% at least with long-term average. If we look at this from a different standard, on page 19. 92, it is made clear, and it is honest, that the State's prime charges without irregular joints should be progressively reduced to and by 2019 C.E. Initially, they were to decrease by 1 percent of GDP over time, but apparently this has not been enough since spring, so the costs without irregular joints are now being increased by 1.2% of GDP to 2019. This means that they will be reduced to about 23% of GDP, instead of being 28% in periods of the past, such as 2009, 2003, and probably during the last ten years of 26.5%. It may not seem as if the state's prime costs without irregular joints were to fall from 26.5% to 23%. But they know what numbers are back there? Yes, if we take up the current amount of national production of about Two thousand and two hundred billion, that's 75,480 billion. which will reduce government expenses and as a proportion of GDP. It's supposed to reduce the consumption, reduce the welfare system in Iceland, reduce what the state can put in service or build up the wood for these enormous sums. This is a vision of the future for the right person. Of course, the media sleeps with them and has no consciousness in this, rather than ever before, that you could hope that this class would build some social union in marriage. This is not a bright vision of the future when we consider the need to invest in the interiors of the health system, the road system, which we are starving, and in reality throw in loans to the future, to cope with the changing nation's age fixing and deal with the pensional commitments that, as I went to the counter-array, are going to have to pay off at 145 15,155 billion dollars. One more time. It's going to take a little bit, for more of the Committee's Committee of the Committee says that it would be the most infringement in terms of government bills at any time. That'll be a hell of a government account. Perhaps it is a form of stability, but it does not change, for it is a check that the situation is probably narrower and tighter in the years you had hoped for, when I am not even talking about the loss of income that the state will have and will drag into the future because of the way the government has behaved income. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u144	A respectable president. Thank you for the senator's speech. First, I'd like to ask about the 75 million people who have been completely jagged by some particular building style in the office building at the General Assembly. I'm asking about the senator's experience here whether it's common that budgets in the budget bill are conditioned according to some of the aesthetic opinions of a member of the individual, such as the Supreme Minister. Prime Minister in this case. If it's not approved, will there be no building here? I can't figure out how conditions can be handled, as are the case with a particular drawing that's many years old. Only as a contribution to the Hospital. I think very much about how the Landsspians have yet another trip to run and carry out their legal duties with the citizens of this country when there is a total of 3 billion dollars. I can't figure out how people make it work, because we've seen that it doesn't work out. Even if I know what to do. A senator does not agree with the medical system that is about to come through, which is where the contract is that each patient is to be paid completely and written and if there are more patients than the contract takes into account, the state will make up for it, I'd like to ask: " Wouldn't you have to think of the land hospital's budget in exactly the same way? [[The president calls.]] Why do we do this for our private but not for our business?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u145	Mr. President. All three were very valid factors. A senator mentioned. First, the existence of a greater proportion of legal committees to create this strange legal explanation in their committee. Fortunately, it's just a part of the Committee's proposal to create a legal explanation and we've already covered it, I've at least, what's with this practice. There were no such terms in the government. The Presidency Committee requested that General Assembly's new building plans be taken along to the work of the government and made its proposals for the Committee on the 2nd. That was the case, and I know for certain that on account of the secretary of finance or the government, it wasn't so much of a requirement. There is a greater proportion of the legal committee that puts them in or makes them available. The reality is that it will be brought to nothing. The Presidency Committee has custody in this matter. There was no consultation with her. We've been preparing these projects, i.e. Prepared to prepare an invitation and a design contest in cooperation with the State's Commission, and it has been discussed only with ordinary job descriptions and the usual descriptions in such advertisements, to consider the environment for which the building should rise in and after incidents if there are any sensitive factors around it, such as an old house or such. Never has there ever been a table, never before mentioned on the Presidency Committee to tie it to some fire - lattice drawing or scribbling. So I predict that it will not be done. Second, regarding the hospital and its 3 billion - billion - in addition to what is happening. This is the management assessment, they know the best. The land hospital has been successful in financial success over the past few years, despite severe difficulties, financial management has been solid and has been commended for this, even being rewarded by the current financial minister, who, in part, was involved in the Land Hospital of Old Debt because the hospital had been so successful in managing financial matters. When it comes to... [[The president calls.]] I guess I'll be allowed to answer the third act in my second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u146	V.E.G. President. First, I'd like to apologize for having intended the highest. If there is more of the legal committee involved, the prime minister would have installed these requirements. I should be right about that, and I just thank you for that information. I naturally wait for the answer to this cost model, how to fit the hospital to get what it needs because we now know that there is more stress, there are more patients, the pressure is more, we have to pay for it. We can't expect to figure this out just by somehow letting people live on the ceiling there. Another thing I'd like to mention on the budget bill is this special northwest committee set up to further the interests of that part of the country on the budget bill. It is all good and blessed to support the settlements. But I ask myself about the methodology for bringing the part of the country about 250 million by what we expect when the other parts are unclear, because we or the people who have been sitting here longer were doing it well. It included all the part of the country, the people in it, and the rural communities in it, having to set their priorities and go to the Kingdom Fund in order to strengthen their settlements. Why is it that in this financial bill, one part is made so high and that others are not?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u147	Mr. President. I think it's a fairly simple answer. It's an old-fashioned politics. The group of candidates went through the districts for the district elections and promised great things, put members on committees, or had them on some committees, and then they start to charge some money on the part of the local people who are understandable when they are expected to do a lot of things, transfer and work, and I don't know what they're doing, and I don't know what it's actually going to be. It is a shocking idea, then, to skim into budgets of old anger, or handmade funds, into one part of the country under that pretext. It's an old-fashioned Polish bitch, and I think it's kind of sad to watch. Now, of course, I want this area well, and I'm not reducing the fact that the Northland West is in need of support, there are more areas in the country, the West, the Tartives, and so forth. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator hit the nail on his head. Of course, we would have a much better hand to do these things by placing an enormous amount of energy in the national parish plan. If you think that there's a reason to revise the ratios in the parish program and say, "There's more to northwestern, more in the Westwestern, more in the West Skaffi County, something like that, then it would be a topic. The locals then left them to choose, set priorities, and place money in them. I have no doubt that the union in Northern West was capable of doing so. Only back to the Land Hospital and agreements for private clinics or private health care services, anyway. Hv. A senator correctly mentions a very important variable there, that is, the strange fact that men seem quite ready, if they have a contract with private partners for some kind of service, to add there an increase in the volume and more patients, and so on. But when it comes to the public health system, it is not treated the same way. That's just what's being said to the Land Hospital, that's to torment him or torment him in trying to fulfill his role with insufficient funds, although the hospital itself points out that because of the increase in elderly, new drugs and the need for new equipment, and so on, it takes 3 billion more to perform its legal function. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u148	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for his talk about building and investing in them because all of us must be really concerned about them. New construction projects, for example, have been virtually zero in the history of this government, and those that have started are decisions taken from governments before, not only by the former government, but also by the government that extended beyond that, or 2007◯2009. It is as if this government does not make any decisions about new projects, and it has been said that this is not a priority because they have decided to set priorities in other ways. This also means that Iceland's road costs are historically low and have been the last years after 2008's natural record, if I remember correctly. I'd like to ask you what. A senator has the impression that this will last for a long time. How long can humans continue to starve the capital system without any significant impact on its safety? The pressures on the road system today are far more than ever because of a number of tourists, and I think it's right for a person to look at these things on the basis of security. Being loaded with wood is no luxury. It's necessary, and in this case it's a specific safety issue. I'd like to hear from what happened. A senator what he believes can continue to starve this long order and whether he believes that we do not have to try to achieve a cross - political partnership over an investment scheme for an extended period of time in order to make up for this lost time in transportation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u149	Mr. President. I went through it a little by 1st. about the bill. Now, I just have to think about it, but I looked at these proportions and I was shocked when I saw how low my investment level is in the state, the new investments as I say somewhere maybe 1% of GDP and I'm not supposed to go up to 2019. Now the situation is that we have no transport plan, the government is unable to handle this. I don't think people are afraid to show the tragic picture of the transport process that this year's budget and its budgets are on. But there are other things that worry about you too. Then I mention that making money for road transport has not been paid. In the history of this government, there has been relaxation. So what should otherwise be increasing the income somewhat handsome, i.e. increased traffic is less effective because it is less relaxed in moving the markets, allowing them to follow prices. Finally, what is recently said is that the road is now in debt and that it is made up as negative to Vega's own money all the contributions from a government fund in recent years beyond the market income. So the road structure is estimated to be a debt of 17◯18 billion to the State. There must be a check for a person to think that she should pay off that debt, pay off with her limited income. It will be even less to invest in a starving road system that is going down. This will result in much damage and greater demand because when roads go down to a certain level, if they are not cared for, they break down, the load is removed from the roads, and their construction will be more expensive. That's what everyone who's been paying attention to these things knows. So the years that are going on and the years that are going on in the same year are likely to be an enormous damage to the road system, which will have to be improved and paid up at some point. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u150	A respectable president. The problem is, people talk as if setting aside transportation is a matter of course. I was at the front of a tendency to believe in the need to put other things first, and then I could make it wait, perhaps to some extent. But what happens then is just that. A senator and others have been saying, they're making so much new costs, it'll be even more expensive to build it up again if you let it go for so long. When considering such donations, e.g. to transport, it was a natural historical peak in 2008, an enormous investment in transport, and continuing 2009. In 2010, donations were higher than 2015. So the government has made a decision to hold these matters completely, and that's why you are concerned. At the same time that humans have decided to let the road system go a bit, the pressures are increasing very much, and it can be said that new projects are also completely stopped. I think that real projects and transport reforms are one of the best building blocks we can use, one of the best steps we can take to strengthen our country. I found an interesting study that Andrea Hjálmsdóttir and others were introducing the original results in the fall if I recall correctly, and it was amazing that it arrived, for example. to the effect that the Great Wall has had a tremendously positive effect on women in this region and their situation. [[The president calls.]] So I feel that the government has decided to push this category aside, and I believe it will affect the safety of the roads, the travel, and the development of the world. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u151	Mr. President. Of course, I regret and weep for the lost years since we in the former government set up an investment plan 2012. May I remind you, then, that a large part of today's project was initiated with it, like a Norwegian tunnel, and carried out in the West and other locations? It is also true that in 2009, 2010, and to some extent during 2011, we carried on a tremendous project despite the crisis and the crisis. For example, we allowed the road program to cover its ruined budget nearly every year. That was a more generous solution for that group, but most others received, with almost everywhere else, the final budget of 2008 being completely cut off by more than 10%. So we provide transportation as we could in those difficult times, but now there is another. What's to be done? It needs money, it's clear. I feel totally lonely that now the markets should be fully increased. It's a song. Fuel prices are very low. So instead of losing their income, they are to be paid for by traffic. It's getting bigger. Then everyone, the rental cars that the foreigners drive, and they need roads. The reality is that it is extremely dangerous for so many reasons to starve this sect. Tourism calls for improvements. It can be viewed as a good investment in the nation's most important currency collection. But I remember most of the livestock in the country. This situation cannot be offered indefinitely. When does the city get way down in the modern world? When will this continue? When will a safe road be used if it can be said into the western river valley, which is part of a supernova route where you can hardly get on a normal car without blowing one to two tires? It's not possible. We are not so miserable and poor that we can't do any better. So, of course, I believe that this should be top priority, and the only thing that justified the easyness of the brake was social swelling. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u152	President. We still discuss a bill for 2016. It's kind of like having a budget talk, it's all under, all the big things, because it's the big, important policy of every government in real life. There, political priorities are reflected, and the emphasis for which the government at any time wants to be known. First of all, I'd like to pick up the thread where it's cool. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's mask released the word earlier in his answers to Katrín Júlíusdóttir's daughter when discussing the road. We have repeatedly made comments that big decisions are made that have to do with legal policies. V.E.G. The government has provided wealth for two major Icelandic classes, language groups in which there is a great need for extraterrestrial policies and trust, seminaries that need to consult with the rural areas, with all political parties, with language categories that are deeply dysped on transport issues and on the other hand, on the other hand, on the issues of tourism. The government of Iceland, on the other hand, returns to the head of the Minister of Internal Affairs on the other hand and to the secretary of the government and the secretary of travel for the extent of transport and travel. These two categories have no policies, no forward vision, and no funding that are random in the lawsuits. During the days we discussed contributions through funding to these two classes, into the tourist trade fund, and also to a specific road project, where the budget for the current year was in progress to support and strengthen these lawsuits by means of a special contribution in the year. That should've been the law. This was anticipated, however, in a budget bill first after the mercenaries have raised their story at press conferences and in films in the middle of a year with reports of its existence. However, in an environment where we have no transport strategy for the Minister, it is necessary to submit the proposal of transportation and the one present at the center. The European Parliament's Environment and Transport Committee has not studied with the Commission in any way on transport. Transport has not been discussed at Council 145. Much of the legal committee now provides a specific transport section. This chapter has not received any discussion on the Council of Transport, nor in the transport Council, which is the legal policy framework for the priorities of transport and funding and financial contributions to the case, the way we should act under law. Rather, it is an amazing chapter that says that with the advancement of the state's financial status, potential for improvement in transport systems is increasing, while more than direct contributions from the state fund must be searched, that is, by permission of the president, and more of the material points to regular transport projects. Then there is some urgent transport project that is probably worthy of all, but this is part of a committee's budget. A financial committee believes that it is going to double the western road, the Road of Sunwater? - and a trip to Southland. In addition, a greater proportion of legal committees believe that these are examples of projects that might be sought other ways to finance and carry out and make progress. I think it would be good for a financial committee to review the legal committee's assignments. It's not just some hobby of the leading legal committee. The greater part's name is not a stage for writing about their interests. It has become endemic in the Government classes that if they send out some text, whether it is a suggestion or a committee, it is a stage for some sort of fantasizing about all sorts of hobbies that do not fall under a financial committee at all, especially when the legal process is not completed, when the panel has not discussed the matter in any way in the present assembly, and when the party is not being spoken of as a legal committee so that it is normal to be considered. I have previously discussed the clever words that have been used to carry out in Generality and a special devotion to 100 - year - old drawings that are also in the hobby that occurs in many places in the administrative activities of the greater part. However, I would like to spend most of my time with two of the day's magazine articles. Each of them has a different format, yet they both appear as enforcing articles in the morning newspaper today. One is Eva Erlendsdóttir, the director of the Kingdom News. She reviews the situation right now and brings up the annual access to the State Radio, that there is something we have had to watch this terms. How true that can be! We've watched this year-seated quest for State Radio, but she's unusually uncomfortable this time, says Björg Eva Erlendsdóttir. Why is it unusual? Because she has no face. Nobody wants to go this time. In most cases, as it were, people have been snarling at the funeral of the year. It's fun to remember, it could've been last year, when it was the highest. The Environment and Resource Minister practically yelled at Egill Helgason in the East, then there was quite a face on the quest, and he thought that the long-lasting candidates had come to an end, and now there would be no progress for the State Radio anymore, it would just be over. Now there are no characters, and no players, but it is indeed yet available, and it is shown by the bill of Illugi Gunnarsson's son that a drop from the radio charge falls - where? Government. The minister of the jury itself, who has dealt with the fact that this is possible, that the fall does not prove to be expected to complete a government case that is under him himself, although the government of Iceland is not in any sense a multi-organized administration and the minister of education is the minister of the mercenaries to the end. He has no legal case with any other government advisers. He accepts his commission from the Council to care for and is responsible for this class to the end. V.E.G. The Minister of Illugi Gunnarsson is to bring this bill to the General. If he can't handle it from the government, as they call him, he'll just bring it here and put it in his own name. There doesn't have to be a bill of government. He proposes it in his own name to be the minister of education and the minister of the seminary. That is how a minister with self - respect would do so, after saying what he has said, and I encourage him to do so. I know there's more to this case in the Council. We make a suggestion if this does not show up in any other way. Toward the end of this article, Eva Erlendsdóttir says, with the permission of a president: If the government's enemies so grossly weigh that and from ambushes, their next task must be taken in major cuts, operating numbers of employees, ruining programs, television and radios, and throwing away the four - year service contract won in agreement with the Ministry of Education. This contract is in accordance with the law. There is absolutely no question that the Service Convention on the Role and Project of the State Radio needs to be reviewed if there is no drop in the radio. In this discussion, it has been stated that more part of the legal committee is being printed at the Committee's magazine because it claims that the previous government has decided to pay attention to 16,400k. per person or carer. This is just wrong. The chairman of the legal committee has recognized it here in the public discourse and has used the phrase that this has been lost, as if it were not intended. Still, she has not been able to apologize for having held men wrong when she did so herself. I believe that this has to be done before this discussion ends, in the past quoted article, that more of the legal committees also mentioned at a meeting with the Government Guideline that this decision should be traced to the left government with fear during the last term, such as the natural disaster of the whole country. Then I'd like to mention and discuss other articles in this same magazine this morning, an article published by Iceland's Bishop, Mrs. Agnes M. Sigurðardóttir. This article is written in the Christmas spirit on the Christmas spirit, which includes reinforcements and support for disability and the elderly, as well as their struggle for improved terms, where the bishop of Iceland joins the concern of this group with reference to the struggle for a manly life, a better life, and the struggle against the world's poverty. The article says, with the permission of a president: (b) What questions remain to be answered? After the collective agreements that have been made, the decision of a court and a collective body, two groups of members of the community are at the top of my mind, the elderly, and the desperate. It is unacceptable that those who have built up the society in which we live and those who are unable to earn money because of sickness or disability need to be concerned about their survival. As a community, we must do better to ensure that all citizens of this country have a decent standard of living. Governments and rural groups must shoulder their responsibility in that matter and must not place responsibility on a relief organization. If there is injustice in the community, there is no peace, there is war. And later: ▪ Peace and righteousness are brothers, for peace to reign, then justice must be accomplished. This statement concludes, a respected president, by the bishop of Iceland, who rightly says that justice and peace are siblings and that for a kingdom to be brought to justice, justice must be accomplished. What are the desires of the elderly and the desperate? They wish for a retrospective increase in social security. Why? Because this is the case with other job market increases in Iceland, including increase as high as possible. Ministers of the government and what. Parliamentaries have been given. We at the General Assembly, who are the guardians of the poor and the elderly, have all been restored. Only our lives are filled with righteousness or the prospect of a decent life. The poor and the elderly have no other way of addressing their own concerns. The only way these groups are to call for justice and speak to those who make up the Allied Council. Fortunately, this call for justice is not just for elderly and desperate persons but for an ever larger group of Icelanders, for people everywhere. Why is that? It's because it's unacceptable that we're still facing it in Iceland, which is the 14th richest nation in the world, that people don't have food, don't make ends meet, are in trouble with their daily life and survival. It is unacceptable, and we should be careful that this group is not left alone. It is unfair, and doing so is unjust. One member of the council after another has appeared in the General's symposium with a magazine that sounds somewhat in agreement to me, where the senators read up 1 percent and billions. People who live at 180 thousand a month, however, do not live by the percentages or billions listed as contributions from the present government to this group of languages. These include real - life individuals and families, not numbers about economics, groups, percentages, and so on. The situation in Icelandic politics has become such that the government of Iceland, which was going to activate national cohesion, work against conflict and suspicion that has characterized Icelandic politics, increase cooperation and harmony to the future, eliminate political uncertainty that had been too prominent in Icelandic society in recent years, work to promote a wide variety of agreements with the labour market on the development of labour markets and development to the future, the government of Iceland, which placed so much emphasis on community cooperation in which all jobs are relevant and have failed this mission. Each and every one of the goals aimed at promoting oneness, harmony, cooperation, cohesion, and harmony in this society has failed. This is why trust in the government of Sigmundur Davíð the Gunnlaugsson of Gunnol has diminished, that the credibility of this same government is in rapid retreat, and that there is a real need to emphasize the existence of options for the administration of society. There are options in leading society to greater emphasis on equality and social justice. These emphasises were reflected in the joint adjustments in the memory of the object. Parts that can get together on change proposals for the budget bill, which can show that they can put up strings on the state's affairs, are groups that can control Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u153	A respectable president. Only with regard to the last as much as any. A senator wrote about, i.e. ideal older people and disability. It's only bothered me in the discussion of how we fall into the fear that our government parties would come here and say, "You were so much worse than we were during the last term, you've reduced the interest of older citizens and disability. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. But when you look at the numbers, it's not exactly the right thing to do. During 2009 and 2010, rising, though small, were on the foundations of these groups from the state. Then again in 2011, there was a significant increase or less than 20 of you. K. in the middle of the year, a basic pension due to a raise in pay. Then the index increase continued as a result. However, they are right when certain temporary impairments were added to those with the highest pensions in addition to other incomes. They went back. That's what we're talking about when people came up to 300 o'clock. K. The income from the pension fund began to decrease, so that it can be maintained. Now it's worked out. I think it's so important that instead of standing here and scrambling about this, some low percentage and the past that's low enough to be handled correctly, we should look at the fact that we have thousands of Icelanders who live at 170 you. 190 yrs, 210 ys, 217 yrs. K. and talk about that amount. I feel that we have to start looking at these amounts and wonder: " Can people really live by this? [[The president calls.]] And if the answer is no, try to take a parapolitic approach to convert it into some decent step.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u154	President. Thank you. A senator resists. It is a natural sad fact in Iceland's political debate that the Congress thing, perhaps primarily the people who are going first, is still so focused on their role in opposing the last government. A man, for example, had an understanding of the first loss, or first few months, that he was still very busy with everything that had been done during his last term, thinking that they had all been bad, but now all would have been good, etc. Now we have been ruling this government for a short period of three years. It's only one and a half winter left until the next election. Still, this wording is totally dominant. We have become very aware of this, both in protest and in this discussion, that the members of the majority are primarily talking about what was, and in what way a government then has acted in a bad way. However, I would like to say in my first speech that I feel unacceptable and that we, who accepted the 2009 project, should never allow it to be unconcerned when it is claimed that a year is comparable to 2009. Let us correct this and talk about it every time someone comes here and talks about the last government and how bad it has been, which does not mention the fact that here is 120 billion people on the budget, he or she will be corrected in her own language. Let us stand for a large correction on the language of the greater part of the government, for this is wrong, and this is intolerable. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u155	A respectable president. In fact, right after a collapse, the hole was more than 216 billion, and it was quite remarkable that it had been closed in four years. It's important that we have this comparison completely clear. Now, however, we are in the position that we are past zero, but we have also been detracting from the output, from the highest amount of money, and are now about to lose the electricity tax. There is, of course, a very different situation. I feel we have a lot of responsibility here and like what's happened. Hjörvar We are the advice of those groups. We're supposed to stop this boy, we're supposed to think about it and answer the question: Can anyone live at 200 thoust? K. plus/minus 30 points. K. In Icelandic society today? With the cost of living as it is, the cost of food as it is, and all that comes from trying to survive here. These are the groups that have built up society, have advanced in years, and have left us with the ability to live decent lives, and then again those who cannot earn money for chronic illnesses or for other reasons. [[The president calls.]] That's why you get so angry at this discussion, because they're people who can't help but look at us. [[The president calls.]] We have a lot of responsibility, and we have to put everything we have to put aside.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u156	President. I agree with that. We're supposed to put this man aside. But what I'm afraid of is that, in fact, it's a political attitude to want to maintain the balance of income, to maintain inequities, not to fight poverty. I'm afraid it's a direct decision. What's the situation now? We know that 1 in 10 Icelanders does not make ends meet. We know that there is real poverty in a country that is the 14th richest country in the world. We also know that the figures presented here are reasonable demands, and unfortunately they do not work to get all these people out of poverty, but they are just reasonable demands, but to avoid them is a deliberate decision to maintain poverty in Iceland while it may be our biggest task to try to eliminate them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u157	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for a vigorous speech, how so? A senator reviewed the situation and particularly the way she tore it up as she was in 2009. She's not what she is now. They see each human child. The 2009 election is the first election I had. I had never chosen before. All I could think of is choosing wasn't the old booth. It was extensive metabolism, even a 19 - year - old who was just getting to his senses. On the other hand, I found it interesting to hear a talk. A senator thought it would be an alternative to the government. Prime Ministers of the Sigmundur of Davíð the Gunnlaugsson of Gunnla. I'd like to know what other options she is seeing in her maps now. Do we have to wait for another election, or what could possibly lead to some other option? The current situation, especially in the budget, is completely absurd. For the richest, the taxes they should pay to the community and while the less fortunate tax burden is increasing, not to mention college students. The tents have gone up and not all of them to the University of Iceland. I'm asking you, what other option is this? Where should we look?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u158	President. Thank you. A senator resists. As it showed, after that time, two and a half years during the reign of this government, there is a very long list of decisions that are about to give up both government funds but also decisions that will benefit the more fortunate and less fortunate ones. They reduce our systems, our child-replacement system, our growth reform system, etc. These are decisions that directly counteract equations. When I say there's another option in this situation, I mean that it's my political opinion and position that it's extremely important for Iceland that in the next general election there is a clear alternative for voters. Then I'm not talking about anything other than the fact that voters can be chosen groups and movements that don't feel like they should be working against equations. When I say this option is there, I mean, when the U.S. that it involves the ability of all to live with dignity. I believe they should speak for such alternative options for the next election.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u159	A respectable president. I appreciate that answer. I think this also sent a clear message to the nation and to the national board of directors, this clear option is further measured in total than the administrative part of surveys now. Just like what? A senator pointed out, however, that the more important things are to this government than the requirement that the poor and the elderly receive what they need. We're talking about that exchange going to be 50 to 150 you. K. on a regular basis. We're not talking about any enormous sums. See what? A senator provides a compromise in which we can meet the demands of the smaller parts, some picket, acquiesce, a retrospective payment, or something similar in order to make it possible for birds and older ones to maintain a decent Christmas? As the situation is now, all we have to do is invite them back to our house for meat. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u160	President. I think that the National Union of older citizens and the North American Community are the realms for which the requirements are set, that the entire organization, the organization of those who have to live on these levels, is the realm that makes the demands. They've contributed them. They're clear. What we can do in a chamber is to echo these requirements, give them a voice here in the Hall of Congress, push the administrative section to meet the demands of these people. That's what we've done. We did that to 2nd. budgets and we'll do it again on 3rd. budget not much changed. We sense that these groups need a sound base much more than the government position. This is not the issue of government alone, it is the fight of the community that wants a righteous society. Therefore, it is our job to make the greater part of the understanding that we will be no less delighted than to meet the legitimate demands of these groups.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u161	Mr. President. I'd like to go inside. A senator, according to the position of the court case she was putting on over the previous part of her talk, the building project at the council assembly. As we have seen, it is part of the proposals of a greater proportion of the legal committee to be given money to build this house. In itself, I agree with that. We have been able to see accounts that would make such a payback in 18 years, and then we are moved to see that when this proposal enters the council, it is linked to the building of the house in the hands of nearly 100 - year - old lovers of the Guðjón of Samúelsson. Of course, that man was very fond and left behind a remarkable architectural heritage, but this is merely a house to be read in another place and in a very different setting. What makes this case strange, that I don't say funny, is the fact that a proposal came to the government from the government did not link it with any particular drawings. The situation is now that the Ministry of finance and the government have not expressed any specific requests for it. Most remarkable, though, is that the Council's presiding committee, which addresses its issues, has not provided any wishes for this but, rather, is opposed. Is it, then, in the power of a certain group of men, who, in no way, can be said to have custody over the affairs of the council to move forward like this? What is the position of this case? I'm asking why. A senator not only because she made this conversation but also the chairman of a council party, and I expect such matters to be discussed there.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u162	A respectable president. Because of what? A senator was so friendly as to know that I was the chairman of a congregation council and that I was once president of the Council of the Organization of Reykjavík and the secretary of the Organization, though in his own time. [[Up front.]] From this experience, I realize and from the knowledge of organizational matters that there is no specific drawing in explanation of how the appearance, content, or size of any building will be in some undefined future. It's not like that. I know the prime minister dreams of having more power over individual matters, but he cannot take in the details of the organizational authority in one particular area of one particular community. This text in explanations of the changes made in the budget is just a reflection of what life is crazy under this government, that men think of it. This suggestion may have been made on April 1. I don't know why. A senator remembers, but April 1 shows up on the blueprint. The prime minister had dug up somewhere in a newspaper where this proposal was said to be one third of the prime minister's birthday present to the Republic. The other two thirds were Hús Læði, which I believe is a long-time time, and we all shame that there is still a hole, or lake, in days such as this, and however, Valhalla was to be rebuilt on the Þingalthala, which was contrary to all the rules of the Þingalm Committee at that time. All of this was crazed, but the three - sided proposal also became an off-limit of the Independence Party. This has been shown in the public speaker's public address.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u163	Mr. President. I think it's the highest. The prime minister is a sneaker. I'll give him that he can be funny in chapters. When he brought this declaration on April 1, it was not all he brought that day. On that day, he could also be understood that he had decided that the new hospital would rise to a very different location than the government had just agreed. I thought it was the Aug at the highest. As a result, I became inclined to believe that he was serious about the house of the son of God, the Guðjón of Samúelsson. In my childhood, I met a little bit of Elvis Presley, who had a good song that had this line: If you don't have a dream, no dreams will ever come true. I'm all for the highest. Prime Minister dreams. Besides, I believe that there must be laws and regulations in this context. I understand why. The senator's lack of control, it's just the chairman of the budget board that once is being evicted, domedera, over the council world, and there's nothing behind it, it's just a imagination that's out of control in the real world. In fact, there are other factors in the budget bill as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u164	President. In fact, it is expressed in verbal exchange with other members of Congress that one of the vice presidents of the council, actually one who is now seated on the throne of the president, sanctimoniously. paritaprevir Stigrim J. Sigfússon, said that in his speech, this text was a sign of failure, that it was unemployable and unattainable.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u165	So we're paying attention to Vigdís, aren't we?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u166	I don't want to name her more than I've done today because of her reaction here earlier today. It is clear that at the Presidency Committee, this text was not consulted, which has had these plans to do. This text did not go through that committee and no discussion there. It's just like any other kind of nonsense. I'm afraid not. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson is a very generous one to calculate it, so it is about the prime minister's sense of humor. I think it's about something else.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u167	A respectable president. I think it's best that I keep going where it was left off. paritaprevir Svavarsdóttir. For example, we were discussing a former government builder, the Guðjón of Samúelsson. One that would identify a bit of a change in plans. More of the budget board and the highest. Governments are filled with certain romantic nationalism and ancient feelings. It's a good thing to mention that when I started to study a University of Iceland historian, it was the first question a professor there asked us: When did Iceland become a nation? Then it was a self - image question of a nation. When will a nation become a nation? Why does a nation become a nation? It was not until the following semester that the answer came, that a nation would be created when a nation ordered to exist, and that a nation would exist for as long as it was a human decree that they wanted to be a nation. Icelanders as a nation came into existence only in the 19th century when nationalism arose and when nations came into being. This is certainly true in history. There can probably be some debate over this in other studies, as well as in history. When will a nation become a nation? It is a very interesting story and a story behind it. What happened in the 19th century was that certain religious nationalism was everywhere. - It's where the major ethnicists are, okay? Generals of Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson and Ásmundur Einar Daðason. Like what? Senators know I'm naturally very national by nature, where I do a lot of wool knitting, dignity, no less. [[Take it up, Prancer.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[Figuratively speaking, it is from Icelandic wool.]] [[Foreground on, Your Honor?]] What I would like to draw attention to is the way a 19th - century nationalistic sense of ancientism characterized by romantic nationalism hovers over lakes when you read about changes in your life. More than that. It's very close to saying if I read from the suggestion of the greater part, by permission of the president: ▪ When preparing a project, the plans for building in the General Assembly shall be taken into consideration in 1918, as set out by the former State superintendent of Samúelsson's God, the former superintendent, and the plans for memorial events related to the coming anniversary of Iceland's sovereign year. Samúelsson's son was a great man. He built much in a certain national style. This is a house from which he looks like a brush farm. There was a lot of debate over it in the past, especially with regard to how the Icelanders lived, so much was made out of building respectable homes for the Icelanders to be properly cultured. One of the first housewives in the kingdom was Samúelsson's son. It's a bit fun when you read the bill over and you don't have to go beyond the next page where there's a new team, Homemaster of the State. All of a sudden, he's back, back like a ghost. I have to ask you, is it not time to move on and try to get into the 21st century? In the majority view, there is evidence that the State superintendent has come into existence as a result of organizational adjustments in the Ministry of Presidency. In other words, it is merely a donation by means of a body that was once heard to support, property, and so on, under the master of the State. This is actually a sign of ancient sickness. It used to be a good, better Iceland. It was a golden age someday. It seems to be the highest. One prime minister believes that this golden age was about 1920 [2]1930, when the late Guðjón Samúelsson drew many great buildings. There's been some debate over how beautiful this drawing is today. She is socialist, and of her, a harsh word has been made to fall here in a church hall like it's really ugly. I don't quite agree with that, but it's just a matter of taste. What I really think is the most important thing about this is this nationalism and ancient desire, not just that but, " Why aren't we using what we have? ' Today, certain disputes exist, so to speak, about avatars. There was a lot of talk, especially after the collapse, about architects' non-to-dos. We're about to add 75 million to the resolution of the project at Generality. It's been determined. I don't know exactly how it conforms to writers' laws, if I'm to say exactly as it is, now I'm a relatively knowledge of writers' laws, taking the plans of the Guðjón of Samúelsson, and mixing them with some new drawings. I'm not sure that the artist's honor would go well. It's just that once every human must die, and sometimes it's just enough. Samúelsson's son, God's Son, played a vital role in creating and making Reykjavík a beautiful town. I'm very grateful for that. Without him, Reykjavík would be completely different. It's just got to be said. However, by taking Samuel's ideas, I really feel that I am being weighed down by the author of the Guðjón of Samúelsson. What really needs to be done is take his drawings and modernize them. I don't really know how it harmonizes with the ideas of writers' honors under the principles of authors. I don't know how the right to do the work of the Guðjón of Samúelsson is performed, but I understand that he is in the hands of the State. Even so, it is also a moral question whether it is right to use a 100 - year - old drawing to build a house now. It's embarrassing to me, not just because of the ideas I see rather clearly and clearly in this great majority of themes, which are the greatest changes. A total of 305 million Prime Ministers! It's mostly transfers, except for new teams like a trust fund. There is another factor that we need to take on more fully and completely. Despite their age, a house may not have to be remarkable. It is nationalisticity that we often allow ourselves to be treated in a certain way. Then there's something else I noticed, and it's totally independent. That's 5 billion. K. a temporary contribution to the Lions movement. I'd like to get a better view of where it actually comes from. I don't understand. But that's no matter what I've been discussing here. This majority opinion, along with the ideas laid down, of rebuilding the State's builder so far back as to go back in modern designs, are very strange. I just have to say, I understand that when it comes to this, people ask questions, especially in view of the fact that the idea was introduced first on April 1, 2015. I was convinced that it was ajoke.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u168	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the speech. I thought it was a bit of a fun connection. A senator reporting on more than half of the changes he made. Fundamental committees, linking ideas about romantic nationalism and even romantic ancient yearnings. As I've previously said to this discussion, a discussion on the budget in my mind is nothing more than a discussion of community affairs where, of course, the budget is just the operating side of our community. That is why I feel it is worth reflecting it in all kinds of ideological light, for it tells us a lot about what is being done with the laws. There is only one little smell in this discussion and yet a friend well worth talking about. I stopped for a while. A senator said that there was a debate over the beauty of the design of the building. I think it's a whole point of its own, but what I think may be closer to asking is just how useful a building will be to 1918. That's exactly why it has to do with discussion. Senator on author's honor. Is it likely that a building built on a 100 - year - old drawing will serve the purpose needed in modern society with all the technological changes that have occurred in the past 100 years?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u169	A respectable president. Ask me what. I find a senator to be very good, and I must think about it. They are very good suggestions that the budget reflects the way society we want to live. This ancient sickness is not the society I want. As if I picture it in the drawing of the Guðjón of Samúelsson, these are primarily requirements for some appearance, for the appearance. Well, at least not at all. The Samúelsson, if I may say so, Mr. President, has drawn a house 100 years ago, the outside burden does not necessarily reflect the inside. That is what needs attention. It is not that we build buildings with such high windows, such as those set out there. Although everything is built with windows today, it is only different. On the other hand, it is questionable to use 100 - year - old drawings. Who is the author at the moment? There are some architects who will come to interior design and more. Is this still a building or a drawing by Samúelsson's son God? Is it not, then, just a blueprint or a building inspired by the son of Samúelsson and his drawing? To me, this is primarily a reflection of some sense of national need and a past desire and perhaps a certain Golden Age.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u170	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Ancient illness, and not the society in which it fell. A senator wants - I would like to ask him a little more about it because of the problem. A senator has discussed a number of subjects, can we say, talk about tactics, and so forth. A senator would like to see a different kind of practice at this workplace. So I'd like to ask about my business with the budget and how. A senator has to say about them. Can we think of them as an honor at the Council? There's been some major changes here. Large amounts of money are being added, so it is becoming apparent that the contribution of the Kingdom Fund is much smaller than expected at the outset. Yet, our request in the memory of the section has not been accepted to postpone a meeting and go down into the stitches of what we really have in our hands, so we are discussing budgets at 2nd. into the nothing without all numbers being properly available. Senators just throw down the changes they seem to be playing. Counts 'em out. A senator's good enough? Is that how we want it? Only at the end of the vision of the future that is reflected in our drawing down on the fact that a government fund will be returned at zero with these laws: Is that good enough for the future?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u171	A respectable president. Yeah, you can ask yourself. These are the first songs I come to, so I have nothing to compare with. However, in view of the fact that we are still receiving some 1.2 billion forgotten productions, the bill seems unconvinced, and it naturally says that somewhere a pot is broken. I think that with new laws on public finance, things like this, the process will be completely different. I sincerely hope that the next time I do my financial work, a year, my work will be different. On the other hand, it is always fun to think only about how your future will be. I want a society that is only more open, more free, and more equal in many ways. When we're talking about how we want our budget, I think it would be a great help to get all the data out of your hands as soon as possible and get them in computer-readable form, not just on paper or paper values for computers. Similarly, I'm going to point out that maybe it's just not long enough since the collapse, so maybe we're just not out of it. Maybe there were a statement at the top. Secretary of the budget that we're returning a baseless operation untimely. Perhaps it is better to be careful and accept that this has become a systematic crash, and now it may not be the time to return unsettled financial laws. Perhaps we need to wait and make it a year.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u172	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. It was an interesting review of these features of the Committee's opinion that discusses this feature and construction at the General Assembly. I am a huge fan of what Guðjón's servant Samúelsson did in his day. The buildings he owns in the city have dignity, which give evidence of a particular time. I don't feel that we respect that time by converting it and its style to make it more useful for us and the situation we expect to live in today, which is entirely different from that of the day. I find this to be odd, and I agree with it. Senator, I don't think this is a strange idea and the story of this architect is a mess. The same is true of today's messages that are also doing wonderful things and should be those that are then spoken of after 100 years as great artists, let's say, a time that set their mark on the city scene back then. We have to get out of this. We've got a hell of a lot of men in this area that I think we should use and give a chance to focus on this tiny period of history we're in right now. I agree with what. A senator thanking her for bringing this up.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u173	A respectable president. I appreciate that input. Here are certain authors' laws, and Piratars have often got the label to just want to steal everything from authors, but that's not entirely true. We are just pointing out that the Author's right is not allowed and that there is no need for self - determination. In this case, however, the author of Samúelsson's son, according to the existing author's law, has the privilege of publishing his work in an original or altered form. I think there's good reason to respect that, especially when we're talking about houses, architects, and other things like that. It's a lot of work. This is something that leaves much more behind than perhaps a song published in digital form. The cost of building and doing so is much greater, but of course the same law applies. That's what we've already noted, that there's a difference between whether you're an architect or a songwriter in the scope. I hope the house will last 100 years, so for the next 100 years, I would probably like to use the human resources we now have and give the architects the opportunity to make their mark in Reykjavík. The ancient chronic illness reflected in the mention of the greater part in itself is humorous, but it also describes a certain desire to leave behind something rather than necessarily others.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u174	A respectable president. Just one thing before I go to the next case, another thing in this case is that 1920, a house was designed from a particular value that is quite different today. Because we have other needs and that of other priorities, we find another house to be a house. We may have more common space and larger working facilities where more people are together in one space, etc. The changes in how we approach things are different. Technology has also changed a lot, etc. If a person is going to go to a new building at the General Assembly, he or she will look for a long time from today's use and the possibility of a change in the future rather than the future. It's a bit of a special approach. The big thing I was going to talk to you about, though. A senator is that I have long been a big fan of the state's open books so that people can look at almost everything and scrutinizing about what the State is doing, and that will be done to try to reduce suspicions about the government and how it uses its resources. Like what? A senator and other piranha have mentioned this, in addition, to a firm arrangement that can result in economic recovery. During the last term, we started the process of opening up the accounts better, and we put some data into the network as raw data, so that a third party could then work with it and publish it. I would like to see even further, that humans were actually showing these data in real time so that they would always lay low for information that could be accessed, therefore information on individual accounts. [[The president calls.]] What does that count? A senator says that we should take a long walk in this regard? [[The president calls.]] How much should we have out there?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u175	A respectable president. I appreciate that question. To kill only on the first part of the question, the natural question is, How much is enough? For example, when do we have enough structures in the General Assembly? When should we accept that this tiny area has served its purpose for about a century and a half? Maybe it's time for the Generals to move them to another field. Perhaps it is time for us to build a new 21st century assembly house together with a new constitution and a new political bitch who could be a symbolic revolution in Icelandic politics, that we would dedicate a new assembly house, and actually new democracy. At the same time, I think that's what I'm talking about. A member of the 21st century referred to an open and beneficial accounting as also part of the democracy. The fact that we have information on how our shared resources are spent is a key factor in keeping the State in check. That's basic to democracy. I think we should look at something that's been done in Britain. It presents all the raw data in so-called CSV or XML files, so I'll talk to them like a good computer nerd. There are many things going on there. It is so important that it is published in this form and that there are certain standards over it. They're working on it. There's a few things called 'Open Government Partnership, which is a project that Iceland does not participate in, but other European countries are involved in this, including United Kingdom. This provides a means of building open books and actually opening funds for the State. Unfortunately, we don't share in this project because I think it would really help us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u176	A respectable president. Only because of the last thing we were discussing, me and him. paritaprevir Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir, then we are very far behind. This was exactly what the British started and had a large task in increasing the public access to the financial information of the state at the turn of the century. They started that process 15 years ago and have taken great steps forward while we are trying to push us forward. When I entered the Ministry of Economic Affairs, we immediately started putting a team of specialists in order to provide suggestions on how we could open up the financial information of the State to a greater degree. This group only had to work in, I can't remember whether it was two or three months, and they could report us, and they immediately took steps to do so by opening up a set database. There was some information that could be opened right away. Unfortunately, it has stopped with the development of a new government because it is somehow as if such a thing had to be a special interest in getting involved. Therefore, after a year's end, I'm going to propose a new Senate resolution on this matter, i.e. that policy will be developed in the way we will open up these financial information. I made such a recommendation to the last council in cooperation with several members of Congress, and I'm going to make some adjustments and bring it forward again. You see, I think this is part of growing confidence between what we're elected agents and how we employ the public tax money, and the public himself, who, of course, wants to know how we do it, he wants to at least know that he has access to this information. The group of workers reporting to me on spring days in 2013 emphasized that this would be on raw materials, such as background. A senator suggested, I'm not going to use the slippers as a matter of course. A senator took along earlier, XML documents, and so on, and that's just how the raw tablets go out because it can also become a form of distrust to governments if we start cooking the information. Today, some companies and media have their own records well locked up and can translate them into understandable reading languages. I think it's important because if the government starts cooking the data, it can create suspicion about what's being prepared and what's chosen to show us and so forth. If it's just in the raw data on the Internet, no one's gonna be afraid that they're making something or collecting some numbers or image of some reality that people don't believe in. I've proclaimed it here that this proposal will come back after years because it's a long time. I think it is best that the Ministers receive a very clear message from the council on what we want to see and that we want public financial data to be completely open. Once people have that clear message from here, I want them to develop a schedule for which steps they will be made, and then they will be followed regardless of the category in the plots each time. Only material things, not only the finance of the government, but some details of this matter. I spoke in my first talk a great deal over the business of older citizens and poor people, and I have to reiterate my frustrations regarding the fact that we have not given any indication that men are going to meet the demands of these groups. Rather, it comes from large groups and thousands of people who earn or receive wages that are around 200 you. K., plus/minus, a few thousands. A person living together has a basic pension of 170 you. K. However, the person who lives alone receives an entire 192 you. K. I'm talking about the phone numbers, the things that you get paid for. They only see every wise person that it can't be survived. Then, if you've earned some pension, it's gonna get cut and you might end up with a net position at 217. [ Picture Credit Line on page 2] 0, 30°C. K. Thousands of Icelanders have to live on these incomes. I think we at the council are supposed to give up all the shooting talk about who did the most at any given time or not. We can carve about it forever. What we should look at are these figures, these facts, and we should answer that question, recognize ourselves, and answer the question: Do we really believe that someone can live through it and be good? I know the answer to that question will be no. When we're all in here, we've already answered that question no, we're supposed to sit down together and draw a crosschological plan of how we're going to sort it out and what steps, because this is not how it works. I hope the government groups can see in this matter and decide to take us on our assignment to try to increase the pay of these groups, disability, and older citizens. They are people who have built up the land we have now taken over and, on the other hand, those who do not have the option of going to the workplace because of chronic illness, accidents, or other causes. So we have enormous responsibilities, and we cannot leave these groups behind. I studied it well in my first talk, and I wanted to call it here. I would also like to mention my health care again. The reason is that there has been so much talk of health care being put on so much money in recent years that it is just - I can't remember if it was called a world record this time by government leaders, but it was some measure. But we don't agree, so we've suggested that the government groups make contributions to health care increase to a person that reminds me of 2.5 billion. That number is not taken out of the air. It is the figure that comes from the hospital itself, where it has been said in the case of his high court that this is what they need in order to try to keep gone. Or whether it's 2.8 billion k. where necessary. It has been said that if we let them have the less than 3 billion that the hospital needs, this would not be so that the hospital service would be better and that men could then maintain the loss and care for more patients or anything like that. No. The reaction was theirs, at least on the part of the dog. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson's son, that if we did, they would only ask for another 3 billion, and then another 3 billion, and still another 3 billion so that it would be as if we were extending money -- I don't know, some business. I think it's a very strange approach because it's our professional in this article that's letting us know what it takes just to hold on to it, so it's come with the attitude that it's not taking to give them some of this money because they just go asking for more and more. That's not what this is all about. It's that if we're going to run a good health system, it just needs this money. It's just a fact. A respectable president. Then I'm going to mention one of these related events, an interesting recent report on The Kingdom Radio, showing that AIDS for health care in Iceland has dropped as a proportion of GDP in recent years, as well as an actual human health expenditure. When people always look at the crowns, it's just not enough because they have to look at a larger picture in this subject. Vilhjálmsson Willsmsson, professor of sociology at the University of Iceland's Nurses School, presented these figures. He says if we compare ourselves with the OECD, we're in 15. We're actually in our budgets, but as a health rate of land production, we're in number 23. He also says that we have been much higher on the list in this comparison in the years before the collapse, as well as in the first few years since the collapse. So that's the numbers we're supposed to look at. We can always say to one another, "Hey, I put more than you did. Or: We are entering a worldwide record in some donations. But when the numbers speak, we have to listen. We must look at them and face this reality and try to deal with it rather than be constantly fighting one another. There are other cases I'd like to mention here. Regarding health matters, it is becoming a big issue that we try to set up some kind of plan on how we add money to that category. I would also like to mention the young ones, so I did not get them in my first speech. What completely disappoints me in the budget bill, and it's not part of the adjustment program, is a reduction in growth and child development. We're told that the reason for the decrease in growth and child development is that we just don't understand the system, but people are starting to have it so much better if you look at property and income status. Of course, this is not so simple. Rather, it is the reason why the benefits are reduced as a percentage of children's entrances and receipts because they haven't let the income limit go and they've left any evolution or reality in our society, they've only frozen it. And that adds up to the child - rearing process, slowly falling out as a support to the most fortunate ones, the young ones. We have wanted to fight for the survival of the benefits because - and that is not to say that men have gone to debt here and therefore should not look to this group, that men can only bless themselves and stop using interest offerings. Prosperation is just another matter. Expansion has been linked, property - related, and so it has been directed to the weightier groups. It is just this way with the younger age groups and the young families in our community that while the gross income is a good intermediate, it is the same that in those years these groups have an enormous load of payment because they are being paid almost exclusively because these generations have come to the point of paying off their mortgages. The same groups that also have enormous expenses for children. I take a close example, by myself. I'll pay you 60 grand. K. per month of preschool. It's about less now. I've got two kids in a nursery in Kopavogi. That's not what we're talking about. There are so many things that weigh down the propaganda of children. I think this is the only place to rethink the situation because it can mean that by this operation, the generations that raise their children are under pressure. You should rethink that approach. I've spoken against it, and we believe this is the wrong priorities for child reform. They say we're talking about the fact that the wealthy are supposed to get pedophiles. The cutting off of the child - making process begins at 200 yards. K. There is a wrong path regarding support for young families. If child damages start at 200 yards. K. I'm not gonna get a lot of pedophiles. What are child benefits? Children's benefits are supported by family members in order to ease their propaganda during the heavy time I was referring to earlier years. Isn't that the kind of community we want to live in? We want to encourage people to have children. We'd like to encourage some normal population growth in our community. In our neighboring countries, people will see enormous problems soon, for their communities have not increased enough. Young people are directly needed to support the welfare systems that have been built up. We don't want to end up in that situation, but we can do it if we weaken all the systems we've built up to support our children. Not letting these levels of income and possessions rise means that having children in this country can become unattractive, not to mention the birthworm, the raisins of the hot dog end of these systems, which is designed to weaken and will catch up with us later. We had to cut down the last season after the crash, and I have to say exactly what it is and I'm gonna say right here that I think we've gone too far into his sickness in his time. That's what humans can change, but this government hasn't, and we're still on the income scale too low, i.e. The roof is too low, and the birthworm is too short. Before we left that government, we had agreed on the prolongation of the birth plate for 12 months. It was retracted by this government. Then I thought a new government would at least intend to raise the roof, but it was up about 20 yous. K. and then no more history. That's 20 up there. K. Don't count anything. As a result, we have too little money for the parents in our maternity school, and we also have a birthworm that is just too short because the gap in the nursery is that long. All of this can come about and cause us to face the same challenges that our neighboring countries face in terms of the natural restoration of our nation. We have to look to it. We cannot always look back on the short time we have been doing. Rather, we should look to these topics for a long time and realize that our decisions now as to these matters can come to our head. I'm about to burn in a bit of time, but I also wanted to talk here about transportation. I took them into account only when I heard what was going on. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon before me because I have an overwhelming concern that people will be looking at this too soon when decisions are made not to put extra money on the road to maintenance and not to invest money in new transport projects because of the tremendous pressures we have on our transport system because of the increased arrival of tourists. This can mean much more for us in the near future if we do not do something about it now. It is also a matter of security, and I believe that improved transport is a key factor in making our country's habitats stronger, much more important than a groundwork plan, much more important than all the growth agreements in this world, that is a good public transportation process. Finally, one very short thing: An interesting primary outcome of a community study on the effects of The Watch Tower led to some of the results. Shows that this process of transport has a tremendous positive effect on sexual equality. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u177	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for taking care of things this way, and especially when it's done. A senator for an open administration. I find it very interesting that it was done during the last term to get some raw data out. I also found it very interesting to hear that nothing was particularly difficult or costly. I know there are many countries that have begun to do this, both in specific cooperation projects such as Open Government Partnership and then, closely connected with Open Budget Partnership. It's just something Iceland could just walk in and start working on a plan. I wonder what. A senator knows how it is that we do not share in such cooperation. Is it just for some political reason, or do we just not know about it? There's something else about it. A senator mentioned in his talk, i.e. Young people. Now it's heading for the highest. Governments to have special policy on housing. I don't see exactly how a person 25 years old and trying to buy an apartment should be able to afford it, especially if that person has been studying, since student loans are only 1.5 million. K. In addition, a student can earn only 1 billion per year. K. Over the whole year. I'm asking. Where is this money coming from? If it is government policy that we have an apartment, how should young people today be able to store up for their first apartment? Where are young people to live? That's a question I've been wondering about. It's a certain discrimination. Survival of 2.5 billion is not possible. K. In a year, if I'm supposed to say it at the moment.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u178	A respectable president. First, just the access to public financial information. I don't know whether or how the State is involved in such cooperation. I think it would be worthy to ask, and I try to pressure people to do so. However, I have asked what happened to the 2013 report of the strategy to deliver further information online and make it accessible. The answers were that it was all in a way. Not much has happened since, and what is uncomfortable is that men seem to have swept all of this into the Ministry of Internal Affairs and that they are building a bigger programme for information. Then I think this project is a little bit lost there. It may well be that I'm wrong, and possibly people will do something about it, but I think a concierge that encourages men, and the council hopefully agree to increase access to a higher priority that financial information can be of benefit. Where, though, are young people to live? This is probably the biggest question we can ask right now. It's a very important question. We didn't have the youngest groups in our society today. We won't. We do not give them a bright view of the future or make life very easy for them. Like what? A senator mentioned, and there was a lawsuit I couldn't get into, the loan fund of Icelandic students, it's the talk we have to go through here carefully. What purpose do we want him to serve? Young people have stopped picking at him. His application is shrinking, and particularly so for those studying abroad. Then I think we're going to have to attack a real tenement building and provide a series of measures to increase the supply of rent houses here on the market, so we're not going to be able to crash. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u179	A respectable president. I thank you for the excellent answer. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir. I began to wonder, as I continued to see in the changing proposal of the budget bill, that 600 million more are expected in the Icelandic loan Fund. The reason is that fewer students, like a dog, come to him. A senator tore up. 600 million is a considerable amount of money. We're talking about a year's average education loans that are not more than two million, that's only in exceptional circumstances they're much more than they are. We're talking about at least 300 students who are no longer in school who don't attend this loan. I know that according to the numbers the University of Iceland sent us why. Congress officials have applied only about 100 fewer students from year to year for the university. So I ask, where are these people? We're talking about a very large river walk in 1988,1992. I know what was in high school and is of this year, that there were a number of elementary schools to be built and arranged so that everyone could make it. So I ask: Do people my age stop applying for a loan, or is it simply better for them to be at the job market and to take everything in half? What sort of college society is one who does not allow time for the academic studies, where it is more beneficial for students to work than to be at student loans simply because the loans hold them in a certain poverty trap?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u180	While you're at it. A senator was considering this, but at the same time, we have a student loan system that really doesn't. I think it's worth an assessment for the government to go through where these people are on student loans and are falling out right now. Is this just that there's been so much increase after a crash? If so, we too need to go through them carefully what then happened to them. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator has asked a number of key questions because we are here and now working in these budgets, and there are many things that can affect the future and the development of community life in this country. This is one of those factors, i.e. how the law affects young people. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator has established a key element in what needs to be considered. Back to my accommodations because I had so little time earlier. It's just that we have a government now that set up a special Branch Minister for housing because the emphasis on that matter was supposed to be so great. But it's done nothing, nothing, and you wonder why. Could this be because, first of all, people may be realizing that the currency we use is not suitable? Second, people may be realizing that this could cost their money for the government. For our part in the United States, I say we're ready to look at the bills in an effort to initiate a decent lease. [[The president calls.]] If that's what it takes, we should, because the situation now is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u181	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I'd like to start by saying the word anyway. A senator is disappointed that there is no word that has been heard of accepting the requirement for dressbacks for older citizens and disability pensioners. I feel very sad now a few days before Christmas. Hv. A senator brought in many things in his talk, and when it comes to the way we are going to have a community in Iceland, it is all very important. Hv. A senator mentioned payment for pensioners, health care, child care, maternity school, and only the educational process at the end, and all of these are absolutely large aspects of a well - being community. Hv. A senator also said that the system is being weakened now and that it would catch up with us later. Clearly, it all costs money, so it screams that there is a need to increase the income of the state and not cut them down. But that is not the plan. As noted in a talk by the dog. paritaprevir Steeringrimur J. Sigfússon is getting more ahead of him to reduce his share, from tens of billions to 2019 C.E. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament: In view of the situation in which we today need money, what vision is evident to us?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u182	A respectable president. Happily, though, though, we have become weaker, we have come far from being a welfare community. I think we all agree that the state should take care of certain things, reassign money in order to earn equal amounts. The government should also make sure that we have a first-class health care, education system, etc. As long as these systems are getting more complex, it is only natural that they too become more expensive. Then you ask yourself, " What is the long - term thought of getting rid of income, like men have been doing here? ' I have to say just as it is that we have been very unhappy that the priorities after a crash were that it is a top priority to lower the fishing costs, top priority to getting rid of the electricity tax and money taxes, etc. While we know that we are facing a major medical challenge. It also awaits us the fact that we will have to put forth effort to raise the pay of older citizens and desperate ones. So there are big projects waiting, as well as education. We know that every dollar we put out in education returns a lot because the cake grows as we invest in education. I think it's the wrong approach, I think it's short of face, and I think people are trapped in some kind of credit, they're trapped in this thought: We independents have always spoken for simple tax systems and lower taxes and have always sold us a great deal in a campaign on it. Instead, people should face a new reality, which is that there are times when money needs to be put back. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u183	V.E.G. President. I couldn't agree more. A senator about the fact that the systems are growing, and we will have to make more money for the future. So, of course, there is something else that I didn't even get to mention in my previous answer, which is that it's time for us to start paying off debts. This is not to say that it will be possible to do something special next year, for with all the contributions that have been being made in these last days, it would seem that we can bless ourselves with the billions of dollars this year. I wondered about my vision of the future, and I just don't know if I'm as optimistic as I am. A senator that is, in fact, so that all of us agree to have a welfare community. You see, I think there are indications, and I don't know if it's because of the lack of vision, that people think it's gonna work out somehow without taking money into the state's budget. I'm really beginning to wonder if it's with certain social elements that are willing to have a community where the rich have it well and can pay for the necessary service and the others can just eat it for free.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u184	A respectable president. It may be more correct, then, to say that all of us want to have access to a quality health - care service, but it is a question of how this access is, whether it is a currency or not, and it helps us to identify it. I mean, me and you, we like access as much as I know a pack of whales. The senator shares that view of life, i.e. The same access for everyone as it is an independent economy. Only again about what I was saying at the end of the day, i.e. that I think we're a little stuck in some sort of Creeds, stuck in some kind of old ideologies at the time -- I'm going to let myself talk specifically about the Independence Party because it always works out fine playing the tape for a reduction of the tax, the simple tax system, and something like that, but the less often you ask yourself the question, What does it do? However, OECD has asked that question. It was published by them in December last year in which direct reports were made - OECD has not been known for being a special Communist organization or socialist movement - a growing equation makes communities stronger. That is why it is justified to reassign funds through the tax system and to reassign money through the tax system and to increase the equation, there must be step - by - step changes in the tax system, which means: it will not be quite as simple. I think people need to start facing reality a little bit. What are the consequences of one's actions and goals? In this case, it is absolutely clear that if you want stronger communities and bigger cakes, they should increase the equation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u185	President. In order to review the current situation that has been going on, which has made a point of smell, what happened last week. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir went out in public work on Saturday afternoon and expected to come back to work on Saturday, i.e. today. Because a new senator is not enrolled until Monday, and I can't last less than a week, I'm not going out until next Monday. However, if it had been a meeting last Saturday, I still wouldn't have been registered in until Monday, so in that case I couldn't be just a week, I wouldn't have to be a weekend, a week, i.e. Five days, and another weekend, if that's the case. So the misunderstanding about the e - mail I didn't get was because of the technical problems that happened after that, but it's been corrected, so we thank you. [[The president calls.]] Next time it'll be better.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-12-53.u186	A respectable president. In my first talk, I discussed a number of factors that were particularly appropriate for the economy - corrected survival or initializing of a government fund and some factors on the income side of the bill, and I stopped. Of course, there are a lot of material on the budget that is necessary, but it is far past this day and few house - to - house executives, so there may be reasons to have the most basic subject of the bill waiting for a talk on Monday. Since what the president was introducing to the chair before I went on a public talk, it cannot be avoided. The meeting will be distributed at Sigider on. Andersen for state responsibility for deCode. Isn't this for the crowning of the administration team, or should I tell the top career of the management team here on the Adventist? Has the administrative part completely lost everything that is moderate, all deliberate, all the ability to talk and exchange about the financial affairs of the Icelandic state and the needs of its citizens? Because a local citizen allows himself to write an article in a newspaper and criticize that the Landspians do not receive enough money to care for sick and sick people, a writer of an internationally recognized physician with a rather good knowledge of what needs to be done, a member of the Parliament comes along and transports a bill to the Allied Council, which has been particularly directed against this person after the prime minister has chosen to top it by writing an article against a citizen in the country, one person whom I do not remember to have happened before. Is it so that a panel of Independence Party approved for the contributions of a matter directed toward a person who has allowed himself to criticize these matters, a law that, in fact, the Independence Party og Davíð son of Oddd put it in particular? [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] It has never had to take on the state responsibility, it has never been accepted, is a story, has nothing to do with today. Therefore, the issue is simply moved to send the message to citizens of the country that if the administrative point is criticized or reasoned that the sick and sick are not being dealt with as worthy of being experienced by them at the General Assembly of the Icelanders. What's next? After the arrival of Kári Stefánsson, the bishop of Iceland has discussed in public the proposal. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson is dead this week. The Bishop of Iceland has written about the status of the elderly and the disability of the community, the suggestion that they get compensation in the budget. May we then expect a member of the Independence Party to suggest that further funding for the National Church be restored? What plan has the government established in the country? Can we not just submit on the first day of the Senate a budget bill that reflects the political policy of certain political parties, discussing it materially, critically, and giving evidence at the World Council, in the News News magazine, and elsewhere in the community, without having to make such an indecent decision? So I don't talk about what we've been able to witness in the last few days, when college graduates with tests, many with elegant careers, well-funded, and in high public places think that in a discussion about refugees in distress or poverty, people who don't have half meals, they're political leaders, university citizens, and the wealthy victims who are supposed to show special compassion, feeling sorry, and think about in their prayers at night because they're spoken so badly of. It surprises me, though, that, of course, the grammatical deterioration of the administrative sector with this draft that a financial bill may have become all permissible in their mind. To be honest, I thought here at a council of men and women who trusted in measuring up to their opinions and criticizing the opinions of others without having to work out their own plans, as I also mentioned in my first speech that affected the conduct of the various members of the budget. In this regard, I want to remind you of how things can be kept different. I especially remember that conversation as the highest. A former welfare minister, the late Guðbjartur Hannesson, led to the collapse. There was no question that they had to have an enormously difficult operation at the Land Hospital. It has often been noted here that the cutting was done, and it should be cut down. So monopolized that the minister of the seminary and the head of a body of legal committees were speaking to hospital officials about what was right and wrong or spiritual violence or something like that? No, a respectable president. Of course, during the entire year, the hospital would have needed more and the managers of the hospital would have been able to reason, but it was a conversation, and the staff and the governor of the Land Hospital cooperated with the funds and governments in order to maintain good and more intensive service in the Land Hospital despite all these traumas. That is why, when people have done such hard work in good cooperation and good cooperation and have shown that they have not been able to handle difficult projects with limited resources, cope with cuts, cope with having to reduce service, that now when funds that are available have grown for five years from year to year, the conversation needs to be performed in this way, under those circumstances. The reason we've discussed some of the work around the budget is not just linked to these funds. The reason for this is that after economic growth continuously from early in the terms of the Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, the strong and powerful, and the growing income of the state's business, there is no greater success. The fact that this has been taken care of for 3rd. For example, if you were not taken out of the Lands Bank without 25 billion money, it would be just a limp in the business of the state funds, you'd be concerned and raised questions about the lack of departments, planning, conservativeness, and orderliness. There are reasons for asking. They may be in the ground of two. One is that all who have been involved in financial matters, whether it is individual finances, homes, businesses, associates, or government, know that the key to success is firm and discipline. When government affairs are so loose, such as these, it is marked by putting in a draft of money that we are dealing with at 2 Peter 3: 1. There is nothing to note, and it is a failure to reduce the necessary resources to the extent necessary. It's not bound to this budget; it's marked more and less this entire term. I think the stone was decommissioned on a mass - related tourist market, although it may be an example of how the procedures that everyone knew had to take at tourist locations have been financed. When budgets were provided for 2015, there was no reason to expect to attack road improvements on important tourist routes, including road transport. About Langadal, Uxachik Route, Kappos and the Queen's Pass. In spring, an immediate announcement was made that the government had decided and announced to the legal committee to defend these roads at a further billion dollars. Then came the spring, the summer, and the autumn, and there was no work to be done. At that time, the legal committee rebuffed any seeming disgrace to the government for financial management, and the roads are still unsalvable. It was decided not to do this, but the loose ones involved in making a decision on what, not in accordance with the budget and across other methods, such as transport, are going to go on some day and not do it another day, are quite a fine example of how things have been handled. Of course, many members of the community plan their plans on what the State knows about money. There must be a basis for confidence in their intentions. This relatively small example, the construction of not more than half a billion, has naturally affected the number of people and businesses and their decisions, but the project was destroyed. When I first sat on a budget committee, under the lead of men like the late King, Einar Oddur's Kristjánsson, then it was a principle that the bill was ready for 2nd. which is the subject, and it would take little or no change between the 2nd and 3rd. Because there are so many factors in the budget that have consequences and influence on whole areas, on individual sectors, on the overall economy, on interest levels, on the business balance, and on the willingness to invest here and there, the overall picture must be available when the Senate takes the budget for consideration. So it is not acceptable that in this bill there are not just billions of errors but tens of millions of dollars that no one in itself knows how to land on the 2nd. The matter, about 2nd. the budget is being done without writing into the bill factors such as the effects of the stability of the budget of the state funds which, of course, are a significant criticism that the government has rather broken down when dealing with foreign requirements, especially now when we see that the contracts have been so favorable to national demands that they have moved to the country and that they have never met at a demand meeting with over 90% of the conferences. These favorable agreements for the foreign demands have been passed on by numbers that are hardly known to humans in Russia once, with a approval of more than 99%. There were no objections to these favorable contracts. Of course, it is vital to see in the way that this aspect of the Kingdom's budget is involved during the coming year and how it affects major sizes. It is simply necessary to assess the economic impact of the bill and to influence other factors, such as policy development, inflation, and other factors. It is also shocking to read about it in the Morning Press today that the pension debt is underestimated by about 20 to 30 billion dollars. In the bill as it lies in the bill. It is because of its own improvement that the pension commitment has been accepted, but it must, of course, be reliable with the number that is transferred by 2nd. if you are bringing it in, because otherwise it is of little use. Since then, we've considered the numbers that are involved in the contracts now in the case of disabled communities, the printing errors of 1,192 million, and so on. Enough about it for now. I miss not seeing a dog. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson in the audience and would have liked to have a place to talk to him. Hv. paritaprevir Björn Valur Gíslason also tried, but with no success. Although he asked for Ásmundur Friðriksson to discuss the activities of the council, Ásmundur Friðriksson did not make it a total. So it became a monopoly. The reason Ásmundur has been requested for this discussion is the fact that he has expressed great repentance because he did not make progress or work sufficiently well when it came to the basic decisions of the elderly and the desperate, and he felt that he had to do more and more work at it. It is now with repentance that you expect it to follow a course and that the senator would then be more determined at 2nd. The case, when adjustments can still be made for the 3rd. to explain their viewpoints about major groups in the country, and to see if we at the government stand had got a member of the management team because that was an important stage. [[The president calls.]] Then a number of candidates would begin to wonder whether they should not follow the example of another senator and support us in the older and desperate affairs of the elderly. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
