ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u1	A respectable president. I don't think it's a pretty bad idea for a case that goes up until the fall. It is not enough to predict matters when they are so trapped in committees, a long history process is over, and the matter is not moving despite the frequent and frequent delay of the council, especially for the New Year's season. Fifty members of Congress have reached a committee. One Senate bill and one Synod proposal have been supplied, the rest is solid. Only a few cases were added to the group last night when they could finally be recommended, but a lot of cases are waiting, including. around 20 cases from us left green. A respectable president. So I wondered, " Is it wrong for me to take this one day and discuss the matter of Congress alone? ' [[Up front.]] The other thing I'd like to do is talk about what's going on in the Senate, and it's also about the conduct of the council, is the unprecedented incident that happened here last night at the highest level. Industrial and commercial minister and her colleague and the head of the trade committee, please. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, the object of what would be the sign of the natural pass, so it's a bad case. In view of the above discussion, it should probably be best at home in the pooler, since there is a total disunition on that subject. In fact, it is unacceptable to determine which points should be made after being instructed. It is fun to remember when a subject on a frame plan was placed at the time. The work committee, which has so far been discussed. Environmental and Transport Committee. The Environment Minister recommended a conference resolution on a framework program based on the ideologies of sustainable development. How strange it was, then, that the body of Congress could be interpreted to distinguish between protection and utilisation and to say that the priming of a kidneys would belong on a professional committee, and it has been found to extend to other categories of structure. It is also very strange that, despite the fact that Congress has made it clear, the basis for the management of employment agencies has also been established. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] A respectful president, the work force is clear, and we must be able to trust it to be followed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u2	V.E.G. President. Recently, I was caught up in news of the Standard and Poor's U.S. assessment firm, including in the Wall Street Journal, about 185 billion fees of reconciliation to avoid going to court because of the accusations of misleading investors. Let's just put it in Icelandic context. The Icelandic pension fund lost 20% of its assets, my money, your money, in the collapse. About half of what was lost, about 150 billion, was the stock of Icelandic banks that were estimated by these U.S. assessments as particularly good and sound investment options almost until collapse. The preparation of food companies in Icelandic banks just before a crash, which would affect or influence whether bonds and bonds were sold, bought, or held, were obligatoryly far from the map. The food companies were supposed to know, and you should know that there was not everything in the Icelandic banks, cross-country connections, huge loans to large shareholders, and a lot too low writing accounts among them. The bank's high prices assessment of food companies was wrong and resulted in massive damage to the Icelandic pensioners. In the summer on my way, I helped the mercenaries Tim Mccarthy, the partner of Mischon de Reya, New York. The purpose was to get a pension fund in Iceland to explore the basis for a lawsuit on the hands of the food companies, to get benefits. Previously, diagnostic work would have to be done, including sharing the food companies with the pension fund. It was strongly emphasized that time was short, that we would have settled until the fall of 2014 because of an expiration rule. The work that would have to be done to make a decision as to whether a legal lawsuit was acceptable was prepared for Mischon Reya Reya about 20 million. Icelandic crowns. When I heard that, I didn't get much sound from Icelandic pension funds and even 20 million dollars. K., I finally offered to finance the access of information if my pension fund had the courage to cycle in the food companies. The cost of the pensions would not be at that time; the risks would be no. If ever there was a chance to get gold from a foreign source, it was there. Clearly, there were unscrupulous individuals in important companies cheating with enormously serious consequences for us. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u3	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator is eager to call the council's attention on this matter. If it is true that Icelandic pension funds may have been a means of seeking their rights in the fields of employment that have been wronged and found guilty of foreign courts to hurt others by the same means, how tragic it is if pension funds have not kept their rights in this matter! I don't think there's a question that a financial and business committee can ask to meet those who have come to this matter and would like further explanation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u4	A respectable president. I've been wondering if it's time for the Parliamentary Committee to resume work, and I'd like to agree with what was presented by e - mail. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson sent us on the committee a while ago. It can be difficult to find time for the non - fixed committees, but I thought it was a very good committee. There were new senators and those with more experience, one former minister. I think it is very important that we continue our work of trying to make the work more efficient at the council. I'm on a budget committee and we're discussing a very interesting case, which is the top point on public finances, which will be expected to be adopted in spring and is a transnational agreement on this. It aims to establish discipline and stability, forethought, that we make plans three or five years ahead so that institutions know what they get, not just on the budgets of each year, but in the future. This adds to discipline and is the best. But I wondered, " Why doesn't such work just cover everything? ' Why are we so happy with this bill, but then when it comes to the Senate work, we don't know what will be done tomorrow? I call out that we try to make some attempts to evaluate the length of discussion in many cases. I think we can do that. Something else I've run into in terms of the Constitution that the government has issued. These are issues that we receive reports that will not be submitted, even to this Constitution, which is then taken back. Then what is it for? Why is the work not more organized so that we know when things will come to the council and do them just like human beings? That's what I'm calling out for. A respectable president. I urge that at the council board, we continue our jobs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u5	The president would like to inform us that he had planned to make a meeting at a council meeting shortly after the assembly was held in a district week. A great deal of work has been done on that committee, as well as on the job. The senator mentioned, and was at a certain point thought it necessary to take them to the council members and get a response to the ideas they were then working on. The president assumes that this was done in all members of the council, and the committee can be better understood by the comments and tips it might have made.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u6	A respectable president. Drug dealers and small loan companies put a lot of people at risk for suicide. Sadly, an amazing number of people become addicted to small loans, and their problems are growing like snowbolts running down a mountain slope and leaving trails of destruction. Thus, the lives of many people have been ruined when the loans have all gone out of control, and each month is the time of despair in which pay is not enough for loans to be paid, and the only way is by another criminal expense. This ball is beyond the reach of many, and people break. According to the authority of the victim's father, this loan company allows the creditors to enter all their bank accounts and can at any time and at any time when money enters the individual's account. It is not helpful to open new accounts because they are open to these criminals. People have been in the hospital for months, and victims notice that bank books are regularly emptied if the person has fallen into the hands of these companies and that they have overdeveloped their debts. The prosperity of this operation, which I would like to call criminal activity, is also enormous. A respectable president. The main customers of these companies are young people, drug addicts and alcoholics, poor people, and the weakest brothers and sisters in the community. The parent contacted me, his child had left a letter to his parents, and he told them that life was no longer worth fighting an enemy debt mountain built up in a small loan company. Resuscitation saved life, and debt paid off by the family. Is it true that we Icelanders want this kind of operation to be allowed in the country where it comes from those who are ill? A respectable president. So I want to ask you why. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson, president of the Economic and Business Committee, what have been done to prevent the damage done to small loan companies and whether their activities are consistent with the laws and good business practices of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u7	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for bringing to the attention of the council the problem of the loan loan business. It is clear in current legislation on consumer loans that the annual share of costs should not exceed 50% in addition to the directional growth of the Federal Bank, while the additional cost of small loan companies at the loan costs yields thousands of percent. Although borrowers usually pay these additional fees, small loan companies insist that the additional fees are selective and that the law is not the limit. If we don't raise borrowers, we're going to multiply the cost even more. So innocent little loans can quickly multiply and become a heavy load for the borrower and his caregivers and even become a family tragedy. A consumer agency has followed up the case with verdicts, fines, and now the last day's finest in the small loan companies. They have continued their busy schedule and seem to put the matter to the test in court. In many cases, borrowers are less experienced in financial matters, people who have problems, or those who are addicted to alcohol and drugs. In 31st. According to a contract, negotiations may be invalidally used by the needy, simple, or the ignorance of the borrower for financial gain. 36th. the same law says that negotiations can be invalidated, which are the opposite of a good business venture. I don't know that these cases have been put to the test in court and whether the contracts of small loan companies will last. The borrowers may not be able to hire lawyers to follow through, but I feel that these issues should be enjoyed. Navigator Lab does not appear to monitor the negotiations. There is a point to consider, perhaps strengthening the position of consumers if the following was to be followed by a consumer clinic. Finally, I want to thank you again. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson for bringing the matter up at the council. The Economic and Business Committee has followed these issues carefully and is working hard to improve and is genuinely interested in them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u8	V.E.G. President. This morning, there was an open meeting on the Senate welfare committee. The opening date was the 25th anniversary of the United Nations Convention on Child Rights. There were youths from the Children's Children's Director, Children's Goods, and UNICEF in Iceland. The decision was to approach them at this critical point, where their activities are specifically directed toward the rights of children. The young people who attended were eight of them, and at the age of 14◯18, who represented the young people mentioned above. The topic of the meeting included participation and rights of children, the school system, and well - being. During the meeting, the young ones had short stories about every topic of conversation, and eventually they communicated with each other. Councilmen who were found. The meeting was very good. It was interesting to listen to young people who were less active. At the same time, when decisions are made about their lives and activities, members of the body of elders face the important fact that children and young people will be better listened to. This also applies to the political treatment of children and young people. Among other things, the young ones need to move their school system closer to our day. Children and young people should be given the opportunity to make assessments of their teachers and others who cooperate with them. A better language education is needed for a foreign - language student to keep up with his mother tongue. The young children also discussed school - without separateness and the choice of children and parents, discussing prevention and support of children and young people with psychiatric disorders, as well as concerns about waiting into BUGL. This brief talk time is not enough to list all the interesting things discussed at the meeting with the young ones. At least after the meeting, it is possible for all of us to listen to what young people and children have to say. They're the ones who'll take over from us here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u9	A respectable president. I'd always like to have the discussion about the national lawsuit, i.e. that a certain number of voters can bring in binding national law on a case provided by the General. But this time, I'd like to talk about a different kind of national law, in connection with what may be the case. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir and what. paritaprevir Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir was mentioned earlier as to the activities of the council and how we work here on this town. Many cases are listed, and as some say, they do not get out of there or find themselves trapped in committees. Even so, there is no need for a subject on the program. We always have plenty of things to do. This is because it takes a long time to talk. Like what? The senators know, and a large part of the nation, have reduced the share at the Council only one tool to handle matters - and that is to say. It doesn't necessarily have to be talkative, it's just that when people don't know that they're not listening to them, they talk louder. Then they talk longer, and then they talk more often, trying to chew the same lines over and over into the weak hope that one day someone will listen. I suggest that more and more cases be settled and discussed on a much more perfunctory note will give the smaller portion more tools than simple speech freedom to set matters straight with the council. Let's not forget that the smaller part is not elected by the 0% of the nation. The majority sit in the shelter of 51.1%, with 60% of members of Congress, 100% of the power mentioned here so many times. I suggest that if the smaller portion, such as a third of the Council, could bring in a binding national law on a case, it would be rarely new. The effect would be primarily that we would work more together, soon find out what would not work out, and what would not work out, and we would have much civilized conversations. We wouldn't have to have them as many as they wouldn't have to be that long. If so, we could do much more of our affairs than we do now. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u10	V.E.G. President. I come up here like the vice president of a welfare committee to discuss the open meeting we had this morning to celebrate the birthday of the children's covenant. A vice president did a good job over the meeting, so I'm not going to repeat what she said. Two years ago, at the council, we legalize the children's contract, which is 25 years old. This was part of our celebrating that anniversary, while working at a Senate Committee on Children's issues to draw our attention to the rest of the council and continually reminding us of the content of the 54th Convention, all of which are equally important, although there are four main reasons, the equality of all children and the prohibition against discrimination, the decision or the arrangements of the government should be based on the best of children, Article 6. of an inborn right of every child to life and development, and of Article 12. about the right of children to express their views on all matters involved. This morning the meeting was a symbolic meeting and an important factor for the anniversary of the children's covenant, but we need to pay attention to children, not merely to them in a figurative way, during joyful times. Therefore, I would like to ask for the Council of Congress to promote our awareness of the children's covenant to suggest how the council can increase the development of children, how they can communicate their viewpoints and opinions with the legal procedures involved. This is especially important in that when we discuss the dwindling involvement of young people in elections, we are responsible for people's confidence that their views are important in politics and that this would be an important part of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u11	V.E.G. President. A lot of words can be said about the Federal Office of Money, but it will be late accused of being bold or elected. This morning it was published that the committee decided that the bank's main growth will remain unchanged, i.e. 4.5%. The main reasons are stated by the president's permission: To some extent, economic prospects are critical but often in the past. The reduction in fuel prices has had a major impact on GDP development both in Iceland and on the world, but the length of this trend is uncertain. It is proper to note that the Norwegian investor is quoted in this morning's business magazine that fuel prices in the world can remain unchanged for ten years, so there is no hope for anyone to reduce control growth in Iceland if there is a risk of oil prices running around here in ten years. Jeffrey Sachs, a famous U.S. economist, says that within three years the oil holder will return to $100, but we will set the steering growth monthly. There is also the danger of unrest because many agreements are open. Yes, it is, in some respects, a risk is involved, but you ask: Is it really good Latin to have a very high control interest? Is that a good message for you in collective agreements? Is it good message that this should be an investment, that there should be an increase in economic growth? Is it good to know that there is still the highest management interest here based on bullion - and inflation is 0.8%? According to one estimate, it is likely to be 2% for the next two years, but should still be 4.5%. Unfortunately, Mr. President, this committee cannot be trusted.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u12	V.E.G. President. Yesterday, there was an opportunity for several members of Congress, and I spoke for a bill with the goal of strengthening and defending the field ministry in the sports movement. My speech included the importance of the sport movement, the social resources created by organized sports, the role of parenting, prevention values, and economic influences. I would like to bring to the attention of the U.S. Department of Education and Culture, taking into account the laws that the State has under sports, international law, and contracts associated with the affairs of the institutions and free partners involved in sports affairs of the country. We regularly hear that we do not have enough support for the sport. It is best to review the comments of the chairman of the Association of Sports News Association from the hand of a sports athlete of the year, where he made a strong statement and severely criticized the government's downturn to achievement sports. A respectable president. - Yes, sir. - Roger that. In part, the importance of role models is shown by the Sports Ministers involved in maintaining national teams and participating in international activities as representatives of Iceland. In this context, I'm going to mention our A national team in male basketball, which accomplished the first successful final final finalists for the European Union. It has established an amateur group where the old patrons of the sport have joined in supporting the relationship to finance that project. It's a fine, respectable president, but if not when, I don't believe it to the highest. Ministers and governments are joining them in a powerful volunteer group and the Körfball Union, fulfilling policy promises in action.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u13	Mr. President. I'd like to consider only the Council Bank's decision to keep operating growth unchanged in 4.5%. He considers it a bit of the future crisis agreements to be a danger to the economic outlooks and to be increasingly agitated at the labour market. When the Work Programme has requested that the lowest pay increase in three years to 300 you. K. you ask yourself, " When in the world of Iceland do we expect to make room for some amount of pay? ' Is it just impossible in the Secret Bank cook books to raise the minimum wage in the country? Is the Secret Bank running a pay policy in this country or something? You ask yourself. It's not like there's no money in this society. A marine research agency has published that there should be almost half of the hairy box, which works in the export markets of 25 to 30 billion, and there are only eight companies in the country that enjoy this. There is no point in considering any possibility that more people have the access to the vast amount of money in the area, opening it up, or raising the fishing costs, reaching some amount of money out there. There are only eight companies who receive the export value of a total of 253/430 billion, followed by huge profits. There is a great injustice in this society, how money is laid down, whether one trusts to increase the lowest wage, and whether one is trusting to pay taxes to those who have broad banks like that in the country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u14	A respectable president. There's a lot of interesting things going on here. I'm glad to hear, and I'm happy to say something. paritaprevir The winners Sigurður Örn, who considered the importance of determining whether we have any benefits when it comes to the food industry. As you recall and observe when they study reports, you can easily see that the meals they brought, food that had not come from heaven but that were paid enormous sums for them, were viewed to the point of not being taken deeper in the year. It was not only the pension fund, a respectable president, who was hurt by it but, of course, did so to the Icelandic state, along with a number of people. A respectable president. I saw in the Morning Press this morning that the import of meat has grown tremendously in Iceland. I think it's a pleasure, and I hope that we'll do more business and trade with agricultural products in Iceland as well as elsewhere. Something else caught my attention, and it has to do with the quality of goods. I think it's very important that consumers be informed about what's in each product. Then I'm referring to all the others for additives like antibiotics and such because we know that the same applies to agricultural products and other things, although the alternative is not to be said to be the same quality. We have been fortunate enough to believe that Iceland and Norway have the least of the extras in traditional agricultural products and meats of the countries we compare with. It is important that this be done. It is important from this increased import that it informs about other products as well as them. [[The president calls.]] As far as I know, for example... the price in Norway is much higher than the production there. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That, of course, should be here too.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u15	A respectable president. There have now been reports that the secretary of finance is having a serious problem putting up with what has long been called after at the Council, which is buying information from taxes to inform the tax fraud of the Icelanders. This has been a crisis in the Ministry of Economics, and now it is evidence that the Minister makes the statement that laws are likely needed to come. I must make it very clear that if it is on the legal side, we are at the front of the board and have made a pass through the council. They just need to be brought out. And if it's the highest. A minister might think of something else to try to get out of this matter, but we are willing to try to help with the release of the new excuse too. There's no way that the secretary of finance and the government will not be more determined on this matter. Getting this information is very important. Germany, who makes huge demands for rights and security data, has felt that it was possible to buy these data and use it in a reevaluation of taxes. This is just as important in view of the information I received in response from the secretary of finance on Monday on Monday on the exchange of income and property for many years back in time, as this picture will be very clear to the fact that there has been an increase. Although it decreased slightly after a collapse, it is much more likely to be viewed as different than it was in the 1990's. The richest percent and the richest tithe from one percent to more and more, and the balance of this game is very important. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u16	A respectable president. 1st. for the industrial and commercial secretary's bill on the natural pass ended here last night in a fairly peculiar way when the highest level. A minister began to wonder about what the committee should be doing, as has already been tore up the activities of the council. In effect, the end of the discussion was a bit clear to the point. In many respects, that seems to be a misuse. What I think stands out after this 1st. is that this has come up with a lot of ideas. A lot of what? Congress officials have taken part and wondered what they think is better than the natural right to achieve the success of funding in order to meet the necessary protection and construction of sites of peace and tourism. Of course, it should first mention that natural protection is the legal role of the State, which, of course, should be used in part for tax purposes. Yet, there are ways to add money to this project, such as making it possible for the host's account to be step divided and put more in the box, such as making a bill for services paid to the like parking lot. This was mentioned during the discussion, and here were also the postmarks for the rush hour in travel services. I feel like we're eating now 1st. is finished and the case will go to one of the above - mentioned committees. Ministers forward and call members of all classes to agree to set this matter aside, and not just to the side, but to the side, but into the drawer and lock that drawer and sit at the table to find the reconstituted means of building tourist facilities and to ensure protection of restricted areas. I read it out from the discussion that people are prepared to work together, but they need to call everyone to the table and set this case that doesn't seem to support anyone, at least very few people, in the drawer and lock that drawer. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u17	A respectable president. The incident that took place here last night is a big surprise. I support the fall from the proposal for the case to be referred to the Environment Committee, I believe it is good for a professional company to have the preemptive, but to draw attention to the fact that the case is so decomposed and so ill made that it contains a bill of a new tax according to the sounds. There would also have been good reason to refer it to the Economic and Business Committee. It is clear to me, therefore, that the employment committee is awaiting the task of sending the bill to the review of both the environment and the transport committee and the economic and the business committee, since this is not a natural protection fee of any kind. This is not linked to the risk of noises in delicate areas of any kind; it is a general tax that is to be drawn into a public fund. It is impossible for such a bill to be delivered at the General Assembly, not to be referred to by the Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u18	The president has explained that there is a proposal for the case to be taken to a professional committee. The president will not be aware that there will be any movement protests, so it is approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u19	A respectable president. I'm here shooting up issues that deal with young people and their potential for getting an apartment for the first time. That's why I'm worried about young people buying an apartment right now. I think we've been floating asleep to take a look at this class in the last few years and decades. In fact, in 1995, along with economist Magnús Skúlason, I first noted that the arrangement we have in Iceland, which is the key to helping people buy homes by bringing improvements in growth, is to encourage people to owe themselves. That's the inspiration of the system. It's a poaching system. In fact, it is based on the very idea that real estate always keeps on increasing. If real estate prices keep rising, it may work out, but if not, it won't be a problem. The point is that in recent years it has generally not been allowed to be discussed. For example, I call attention to the fact that I recorded this -- I first made a case about these areas in 1995, as I mentioned, but 2004 we had this discussion about 90% loans, and then I drew attention to the obvious things that were just that - and we were in more part of it. Societal committees then, I gave the commission, especially from Norway and elsewhere in the North countries, that they had found themselves in the trouble that the prices of property stopped raising, and then it hit the people badly. There was the bank crisis there. We were conscious and conscious of this arrangement. It's far too bad to say that the reaction I got in this room, especially from the what I heard. Councilmen of the United States, were ridicule, and people were not impressed with this statement. It may have illustrated the discussion back then, but unfortunately I was right about the consequences that everyone knows. So we don't change now, Mr. Honorable President, but the next question is, What are we going to do to prevent this from happening again? Then it tells itself that we need to change our course. We cannot have an arrangement that encourages people to owe. We must use the tools we have to help people to make their home. The type of house - to - house service that is now started with the most special route. Government, at least More of what it is. This has been agreed upon by the Generals. But better, if it's enough. Other factors weigh a great deal when it comes to such things as real estate prices, and this is most damaging to those who are buying for the first time. If we have a high tax price, hundreds of percent have been raised since 2005, if we have a very high cost of property, if we have a building policy that makes it very difficult for people to build small and cheap apartments, we are making it difficult for young people to buy their first apartment. Looking at the account, it is impossible to do so unless it is possible through the housing system. We need to go over it, discuss matters, and stop us from seeing the same mistakes again, but considering the information I have, we are on the very same path as we used to be. The loans everyone agrees to be the worst, they are the most expensive, and they make property very slow, i.e. 40% pledged credit, based on the best information I have, and I'm going to follow it up with queries following this discussion to the highest level. Social Affairs Minister, is the most common loan, a 40 - year - old insurance loan that we all agree that we do not want to see. A respectable president. I can't see anything right now except that we're going the same way and that we got into the trouble in a real estate market we know. One factor is, too, that the government has a lot of apartments, thousands of apartments, and it doesn't help people who want to buy houses. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u20	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For this discussion and for the emphasis that was highlighted in his case, Þór Þórðarson was greatly impressed by Guðlaugur's God - fearing Son. I deeply agree with the senator that we need to change our course, we need to learn from the experience of the past few years and decades. We can't go back the same way, we can't encourage a loan again, we can't encourage raising the amount of credit. We need to watch our system as a whole. I think it's so important to keep that in mind. At times, we hear people speaking for special policy or a sort of tenet-gain policy. I think we need to start facing the fact that these are two sides of the same coin. We're talking about the housing market, how people get into it, or where people are supposed to live while saving themselves for a down payment on an apartment. Should we make it possible to save money into an apartment, and how should we be able to secure the security of people when on other occasions it is decided to enter the largest individual investment of our lives, to ensure that the same guidelines for all of the housing markets? Hv. A senator served as a representative of a council of independence officials by the Ministry for the future housing arrangements. I am very pleased with the suggestions that came from that work. In this regard, whether people live in rented camps, they want to buy homes, or they buy farms, and we say that we are going to secure all the homes of the country. There's something people haven't lived in Iceland. In this discussion, I reviewed an article that I wrote in January 2013 that examined the Institute for Living in the United States and European Homes in 2010. It showed that me and the Icelanders have been champions of Europe in the neglect of the mortgage, not just after a crash, but far back into time. In other words, for some time we had put our top seats in Europe's defaults. During this time, Iceland had three times as many homes in which to live under expenses as it was in the North countries. This is despite the fact that the annual expenses of Icelandic households due to housing as the provision for income are lower than in many other European countries. Thus, in the market points of Arion's bank to this report, it was just wondering if this might be why people are not involved here. People stress the importance of making a home sooner, and they have very little of their own money when they go into investing and thus are in debt very much. Foreigners are older when they decide to buy houses, it is harder to get through payment, and as a result, they are less likely to land at times in divorce. This is being addressed by the Project Management Board. There are suggestions to make housing a permanent arrangement for young people in Iceland. We certainly know the experience of removing legal housing supplies. As a result, four, five years later, a whole generation with no money came into their home. It also says that for people to have room to make a living, we need to cover the cost of living when renting. It is suggested in the group that there be solidties, or public planning. It is said that housing needs to be improved, and this too is that it is not enough to support the demand with increased housing support but also to ensure a sufficient supply. It's a big concern to see, exactly like a whale. A senator went through, that we may not have given enough thought to what turns to the forward gate. There were very interesting suggestions on the tax system changes that went on to reward those with one or two apartments by reducing their capital tax taxes and providing a more economic tax environment for tenants, and with the thought of reaching down the cost of renting, so people can afford to save money to buy housing. There was also talk of changes in the building order. We already went through it. Three times we have made adjustments in the building order so that there is much room within the current regulations to be practical. But then we also come to the locals. They have a very high responsibility to shape their own housing plans and to place themselves firmly on the responsibility they have to ensure a wide range of environmental benefits when it comes to housing options in their rural communities. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u21	A respectable president. The serious situation that young people enjoy today in a house - to - house market is primarily marked by high real - estate prices, resulting in high rent prices, driven by shortage. It is therefore important to increase housing supplies by any means necessary. I agree with the highest. The minister and prime speaker of this discussion was that it is normal to reduce the amount of debt that can be made and not to have actions that promote commitments. It is normal to continue controlling loans and not raising credit rates. The special delivery route has been arranged is fine for its hat, but it is huge and will not be sufficient, for it is, of course, bound to the fact that people have commercial income. We want young people to study and then be able to reach the housing market after study. Because all people are saved in the present system, so it needs to be developed much better to benefit from those who are studying. Building costs need to be held low. It is interesting to see from Reykjavíkurburg an increase in the emphasis on my apartment. Over the years, over the years, there have been overworked. The less apartments, extra cab sprays, and the State, of course, need to make a good impression. We're waiting for the prime minister there. What then should be done with people who don't have money? I think it's too much of a discussion that should put people away. I have to say, just as it is, when the situation is the way it is at the housing market today, that renting a small apartment is twice as high as the payment of a 40 - year mortgage, you must ask: "Why is the greatest project to forbid anyone to take a 40 - year mortgage? Why is the way to go if today is certainly twice as cheap as paying off from 40 years of rent? [[The president calls.]] There you must think that although borrowing is expensive and adverse, it is a loan for those who do not have money. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u22	V.E.G. President. The real estate market is difficult for people who have no money to deposit on an apartment, end up living in an apartment way. A precious and unstable tenet makes it even more difficult for young people to make money for and to throw many into buying rather than renting when their circumstances did not actually offer them. This contributes to an even greater demand for a real estate market, with an even higher price, and unfortunately, measures. Governments with the so - called correction have made the gap between those who are already in the system and receive correction whether they are in the payment problem or not and the rest of the world. I believe that representatives of the government party should take care to boast over the mortgage trade route. Clearly, it is a game to bring reproach on the fact that the great debt has not benefited young people and tenants. On the other hand, it may late be considered a tremendous favor to young people to be content to use their own pension money to buy apartments. We must have the ambition to want to see a system that allows people not only to cover their heads but also to secure a good pension after a career. I would particularly like to warn, though, that men would be tempted to use this case as an even more pretext to include further requirements for a building policy, which only leads to worse access and more long - term costs. Granted, they do not lack an inaccessible home, but changing what has already been built is expensive.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u23	A respectable president. I appreciate the advising conversation, it's certainly necessary. Like what? One senator says that buying his first apartment is truly a turning point for young people. In the past two years, it may have been most important that young people have undergone severe housing conditions. Cabin prices have increased, and there is no evidence that renting is imminent. Of course, the first purchase of young people's apartments has to do with rent. It's hard to collect money while renting your rent as it is. Even if we're talking about an apartment purchase, I'd like to warn you that special policy is being made too high or that it's the only option. Of course, there are other advantages, such as the tenet, and we are to examine it more closely, as other nations do. We put new laws on consumer loans a year ago. They are very important, but it is true that young people now find it harder to buy their first apartment. It's simply harder to go through credit evaluations, even though you have 80% to pay because you just have to make more money, because the frame was tight enough to put people on more pay. That's understandable, but it's harder. What can be done? For young people to be able to store up an apartment, it is essential that they strengthen their rent. It is known, and we are waiting for the Director of Vessel's bill for housing improvements. It may be wise to set up some kind of household savings system, etc. I must say, though, that I find it rather surprising that we sit here and talk about how we're going to wind up the increase in housing prices and young people don't look at the market while the more part of the council decides to share money in a debt correction that would mean that everyone would get the edge except young people because they didn't have paid off their mortgages. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u24	Mr. President. We'll talk about young people and our first apartment purchases. During the campaign, both government parties praised the key bill. It would be interesting to know the effect of key law, if such a bill were adopted at the General Assembly, that it would have on young people's first apartment purchase and when the management parties intend to submit such a bill. In the election brochures and promises of the Independence Party, the approach is such that it is painted up as a stronger position for financial institutions, a chance to start over again, that those who cannot handle the house payment should have the opportunity to separate the key instead of bankruptcy. So this was the approach of the Independence Party to the campaign with its campaign order. Everyone naturally assumes that there is no retrospective key law that would likely be a significant violation of a constitution but to the future, i.e. that buying property after approval of such laws could bring back the keys if they could not live up to payments without going bankrupt. I've never bought an apartment house and I'll never buy an apartment house. Taking a large loan and not knowing what it can be, I don't offer it to my family. If there were again the keys in the country, I'd know that if I had to return my keys at some point, I could return my keys, I could lose my original value, and what I had already paid, but I wouldn't be any worse than that. The campaign team had the same promise in its campaign policy, promising to set key laws, with the permission of a president, to allow borrowers to surrender their property to the lender without resulting in bankruptcy. [[The president calls.]] Such laws include the greater responsibilities of creditors. [[The president calls.]] Where does this stand? I ask the highest. A minister and a guardian in these special discussions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u25	A respectable president. The matter discussed here may have a relatively simple answer. How do young people buy an apartment? The physical variable sizes in this case are relatively small, it's real value, it's a means of earning a buyer, and then it's a salary. In this regard, it has happened in recent years that there has been an inflation in real estate markets, and it still remains despite a reduction. Maybe she's about to get back on the road. There have been some practical suggestions, such as interest improvements, and this refers to rent compensation. Last mentioned the highest. Minister, you may need a solid strength. In fact, growth reform is a force for debt at the same time as any savings has been taxed, so it is a small incentive to save save except in the local legal changes in spring where people are authorized to provide a portion of their real estate savings. This may increase people's ability to buy. Because a person's income is not appreciated in the financial capacity, financial income is a bit strange. There's no way we can get out of here and find another magic solution. I encourage people to be alert and not to take action that simply leads to an ongoing rise in real estate prices, e.g. ... withcompromisingactions, further growth improvements. House bonds may simply lead to an increase in housing. [[The president calls.]] What, then, would have started?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u26	V.E.G. President. There is reason to be concerned about the status of those who are trying to buy their first estate and those who are trying to get their way back to housing, e.g. those who have lost property and are trying to get back on track. This is an increase in real estate prices. Still, we must look forward to a realistic choice of housing. Today, many choose to live in a rented house, not wanting to make a debt with large mortgages, but still asking for security in a housing market. Therefore, it is very important that the primary products regarding the housing market and, hopefully, now, are in the final meters working at the Ministry of Health as soon as possible into the council. V.E.G. The social and housing minister of Eygló Harðardóttir was a good source of suggestions. The bills address very important issues, i.e. to increase the supply of rented homes where people can find security in housing. There are proposals to use certain indiscriminate ideas to get housing from temporary rent to tourists into the market with people who want to live on long term rent. I like the founding system that's being discussed in these bills, i.e. to pick up stockbacks instead of paying down interest to housing partners. It is estimated that rent prices may be reduced by 18 to20%. This is important for those in a rented market who want to go out and buy a house that can bring down rent prices. Therefore, we need to look closely at all such ideas. In addition, a very important bill is the balance of support between systems, between the growth reform system and the rent system for a new system, as well as housing. I think that might improve a lot of people.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u27	Mr. President. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Guðlaugur gave Þór Þórðarson the talk. He says we need to change our course. I agree with that. I disagree, however, with the policy that the senator primarily wants to stress, which is to help people acquire. That has been the policy of the government of the United States over the last few decades. In 2011 we were united that we should now give increased emphasis on the availability of rented homes with the guidance of security. V.E.G. The social and housing minister has proposed a similar policy. Everyone agrees on the importance of freeing people from debt and increasing the flexibility of householders in a housing market with increased supply for rent houses. Often this is also true of young people who are starting farming, and then they will be temporarily moving abroad, and it is unlikely that they would have been able to keep an investment in housing. If we are to save for our children's housing, today it is necessary to have at least 3 million, 5 million. Childhood is 216 months. If I'm going to raise 3 million for my baby, I'm going to have to set aside a month 14 of yours. K., so many times that number, with the number of children we share. If I'm gonna raise 5 million to have lived below me, I'm gonna have to lay down well over 20 of you. K. per month. It's for few. In order to improve the equality of housing markets, housing security, we should increase rent camps, change housing reforms, and establish sponsorship. That's what I want to see in the budget after 80 billion transfers... [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u28	Mr. President. In itself, it is quite well for a man to have a good time. The management team is asking another board of directors, i.e. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Minister of his own government, about how very young people should go to own an apartment today. It's probably never been more difficult. But well - meaning, the possession of an apartment is the basic theme of the discussion. The question, then, is whether the ransom is some sort of savings form of tax - based economy. The problem is, of course, that this narrow approach ignores the fact that many people are facing a situation that can severely disrupt it over their heads. It is reality because of difficult circumstances, low wages, and even for social or social reasons, that this solution is simply not suitable for a large number of housing facilities, at least not in the first few years of farming. This is also overlooked by those who simply want to go this way, want to live in a different form, want to rent, or use home-room or partnership solutions. Such blind private property policy, without offering social resources for those in need of such support and a variety of resources on other grounds for those who simply want to rent, at least in any part of your life, you forget and you disappear. If a man uses any particular tax impulse to promote a special policy, it's politics, and nothing else. For example, I don't see the answer to the fact that states and rurals sell large amounts of money into the future by posting tax-free private savings into this which affects the pension system, etc. [[The president calls.]] As I say, Mr. President, it's fine for the management to discuss it among themselves, but there's very little more to it than that. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u29	A respectable president. Thank you so much for this important discussion. A lot of good things have been done here. It may never have been more important now that we invite young people to some kind of future view of how they can get a roof over their heads. I agree with those who have mentioned before that roof over the head doesn't necessarily have to be a special property roof, it can be rent - rent in a safe tenant. You see, young people today have a very easy view of the future, which is not limited to the outlines of the country. You can hear it more and more in young people that the idea of living abroad is perfectly normal. We're competing with foreign countries for young people. For decades, it has been determined to strengthen the status of the existing and the older ones at the expense of our young people, to run our systems, and our economics at the expense of future generations. It goes on as long as future generations have no choice but to accept the debt and tread it down, but when they have the chance to get away from these crazy people, we are in trouble. When I was young, I felt that people around me were often very angry, so they were in a state of turmoil. Today, I experience this same group that has become middle - aged, and I like it when we eat billions of dollars in so - called debt corrections to people who have housing. We will stand out against those who have yet to have a home or get into the housing market, except that we are still building a vaccine on the price of shelters that make it even harder for the buyers to get in. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's a vicious circle we have to break.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u30	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister and minister. Councilmen for your participation. I thought it was a big part of a great deal of something that was very serious and good. Although I don't agree with all the things I had. paritaprevir The Árni Páll Árnason said that I was especially pleased to hear another note, but he has often come from the United States. I couldn't agree more than that. A minister who says that property and rent are each side of the same coin. Someone's gotta have the place. It tells itself that if housing is cheaper and easier to obtain, the rent will also be reduced. It's amazing to listen to those political holes in which men always fall in and say that if there's any way, it's not for everyone and therefore it can't be taken. In this regard, there are billions of workers who adapt their mortgages to correct their houses. Why does no one talk about shoveling billions in interest of interest? From 2005 nearly 100 billion are involved. Is it not billions of people being shoveled? That's impossible, isn't it? I haven't heard anyone in the government yet. That's what a senator says. Never. Is there a lot of money that's okay? What about 60 billion people in the apartment loan fund? Don't you think there's a lot of money in a system that doesn't work out? Is that all right? [[Foreground on: No.]] I haven't heard one before. This is discussed by a diplomat. When they were in charge during their last term, it was blown up every time that this case was taken up, and I often adopted it. A respectable president. There's a lot of parishes in this. We need to consider some factors. I was going to read the building order, but it's 174 less. This cannot be excluded unless it can be simplified. This is not to say that buying homes is easier and less expensive. One is a heat supply. I've seen one community come forward in good terms, Kopavog, and then I'm talking about the capital area. I hope that others will do the same. I'm pleased with the way I respond. Ministers and most of them why. Senators. I thought it was interesting and good and hopefully gives this tone so that we can change our policy here, help people find an apartment, and, as a result, reduce rent, help people rent. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's the end of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u31	A respectable president. Thank you so much for the discussion. I'd like to answer a few of the points that came in here. There are suggestions from the Minister of the Interior who is involved in the overcrowded holdings and is a specific entry of key laws. I assume there's a bill like that coming up soon. I also wanted to mention the concerns of those who suffered from pensions. I don't think there's any safer investment for the pension fund, but it's just an apartment building, especially when they can rent it and thereby make sure that they earn their own money. I think that's something the pension funds should really buy. I know why. paritaprevir The Gullful Þórðarson has also been interested in the sales and property of the camp loans, so I just want to enter it. Today, seven rented packages were advertised that should form foundation for tenants. There was considerable interest in them. I suppose soon the result will be revealed. I also declared that I think it's right to sell Klettur. However, as with other assets owned by an apartment loan fund, I believe I know they're almost all for sale if I get the right price. Finally, I would like to mention in particular, of course, these suggestions will cost you. It is very important to secure enough funds so that we can bring them into action. Just like what? paritaprevir Guðlaugur of Þór Þórðarson, I regret the funding that has flowed into the apartment loans. I would rather see the money go to other aspects of our housing system, where we could actually support people who are in social and financial problems, young people, disabled adults, elderly, and, in fact, others who somehow have their feet in the community, and then we could travel on a law frame that turns toward public markets that people can work within their rules of law. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u32	Mr. President. I'm going to add a few words to the discussion on the bill of changing the law on the local community social services, which is about to give the rural communities legal authority to conditions financial support, a quick recovery under what I understand was to some extent practitioned without such improvement. This is a very difficult subject and needs to be discussed and looked at in a balanced way. I have to say, as it is, that you have a little sadness in your heart that you face the fact that the matter is presented in this way. I would have so much, much rather wanted men to offer suggestions on achieving the same goals as I give myself to be behind than by other means, some positive approach instead of that negative approach. It might thus be thought that basic social aid, which is the lowest safety network under society's well - being, would be designed never to be restricted. However, the system offered encouraging measures and resources that would be designed to achieve the same goals. In this way, for example, it might be possible for a person to be reassigned at a base-of-the-art level against having approved rehabilitation or training or to receive the effective measures that the meaning is pushing men into this negative approach, i.e. by keeping the whip at their head that if they do not heed the call, they will lose their compensation. Of course, it is the case here that those who are employed but who are caught in this position are likely to have their full - time rights for unemployment in many cases. In other cases these may be employees who have never made it to the labour market. It is not surprising, however, that such terms as the avoidance of validating financial assistance, as stated at 2 Timothy 3: 1. g., to another person who is recognized partly or completely by the candidate. We're already in a situation here. What is involved in being employed in part, and how do their circumstances regarding seeking employment or after experiences even include some of the options they are required to perform or to lose their compensation? Now I have no doubt that many of the finest local authorities and members of the Ministry and elsewhere who have worked on this matter - and this is not a new matter, it is well known since the last term when rural society applied to it - that it is a positive thought. She is trying to help those in this position as far as possible to maintain her skills and function or to build it up and get out of the tragic situation that it is going to need, directly from its fellow rural society. It doesn't change the other, though we agree that the goal is good, and the thinking of those who want it to be good is that we have to be able to discuss the methods of harassment. To be honest, Mr. President, this negative approach is extremely difficult. There are so many challenges, such as the work ethic itself. It is not always simple to determine whether a person is a workforce or a work permit in part, and then in the type of work, operation, or the items that will be installed, saying: "If you don't go to this course or in this training, you will lose compensation. It's like this. I know men who, on the basis of similar rules of unemployment, gave up and refused to take the third class. They felt that it was not acceptable for them to be done twice or three times in a three - year period or four to repeat something that they felt did not return them much. Then, very much, we would like to talk here about the group of people most ill of all in our society. I think that's pretty clear. These are the people who have gone through unemployment or who have never been to the job market but have not yet received a definitive ruling that they are non-employable, micro-terrestrial, etc. These problems can be many of the ways and the obstacles that cause them include: that the person may have lost weight on the job search. There may be very invisible obstacles, nothing that humans necessarily carry or that are seen in short talk, interviews, even if there are professionals, but are internal problems that are even very sensitive to reveal. Of course, these include those who suffer from a number of mental disorders or other such difficulties and obstacles that are not always very visible on the surface. It must also be remembered that this is about the lowest safety network in the community, and I make a big difference between it and the unemployment reform system and the measures it is trying to keep people active and toes working and trying to help get back into the job. It is people who have been in a job market not long ago and whose circumstances differ greatly from those of this group. People are always trying to invent the same bike in one way or another at different times and in different countries, and this matter is not new, perhaps more rarely, when it comes to the last basic assistance of such communities. To some extent, however, this course has been taken in Denmark or elsewhere, and in some places it has been turned away because it has not given up well. I wondered if it would be a better approach to state and community with the labour market partners, for example. The jobseekers and their arrangements work together better. I don't think it's quite okay for the government and the rest of the thing here to come up with a decision like a thunder from the open sky to cut down the unemployment period by six months before Christmas. Aggressors prepare to land on them. Fortunately, it seems to have become less than men feared, but yet it is the remedy that will take over if it hasn't come true. Then there's nothing to indicate but alimony from the local community. Shouldn't this play together better? Should this be some kind of coordinated system of state and community and labour market members being united behind them? Of course, the cost can be divided in a comparable way to today, that unemployment reform rights are two and a half or three years, and then they take over another cost, but this difference is not made. There's something else I think for most people to say in the hot tub or wherever it is they're jobseekers, they've lost their job a while ago, and they're looking for a job, but they have to make no sense that they've come to the point where they need to get their living directly from the local community. It would not have to be such a border if this was one shared system that kept people around them from the moment they lose their jobs or get out of a job market because of some trauma and continue through life, for something has to live. That's for damn sure. We expect everyone in our country to have a decent decent standing, to be brought low, and to lose dignity because of the well - being of our community. I think it's a little cynical. Of course, I think the authors of the bill will admit that the production must only be cut off for two months at a time and only about half. There is some evidence of recognition that people cannot quite be put on God and seared, but we wait. What's the point? Yeah, someone's supposed to live with half the production as it is today from his country partner, maybe two months at a time over and over again. What kind of life is that? That's not possible. There must be some alternative ways or how to face the people who are judged that this generous assistance, of course very low, does not compare with the standard for public living, so that for the next two months, you will receive half, my dear, if there are no other options to distribute. What remains? Is it not, then, merely food gifts, to search through the needs of helpers and partners who must live in the gap? And then I ask, Mr. President, is the welfare system in Iceland becoming so lame? Is it so that there is only food and soup kitchens that should wait a portion of the group that has turned to their country because all other resources are emptied? I think it's impossible. It must be possible to try at least in a more encouraging way. People who face such challenges need to be kept in their arms. It has to be human resources and resources to try to help the people with a positive premise in working out their jobs and getting their positions and abilities and opportunities to be clean in our society. It's usually some intermediate situation. I don't think there's any reason to expect this to last for a very long time with each individual. This would be more important than temporary difficulties. I find it extremely difficult to imagine what this will be like if the bill becomes the law. I ask myself, " How will we answer the situation that will occur when one part of the group becomes in a position to be stripped of or halved for months or two months at intervals of several months or even up to six months? ' It says here in one paragraph that if there are a requirement for effective jobseekers for financial support due to special circumstances, it is permitted by the rural government to eliminate it up to six months at the same time in terms of 1 mg. no longer satisfied. Mr. President. These are my interests for the bill. I think the underlying thought, to encourage people to try to work out their positions, is, of course, right. That's what needs to be done and people could have done better in Iceland in a number of ways. There have been, however, many things that have been better in this regard. I believe that the main factors involved successfully dealing with unemployment during the last term of this factor are to do much to try to help people with operations and to pay off their streets for study, etc. This has resulted in great success, and unemployment has done us less harm because people were very aware of it. It was helped to prolong the unemployment period for four years, which was definitely correct. Similarly, I think it is mistaken or premature, too early, to shorten it now for two and a half years. Then I would have preferred to do something better and different together. It wouldn't be that direction, and the structure would be a positive impulse in the system instead of negative. This is about the last group in the community that I feel I should do away with in an effort to achieve positive goals. It's kind of like that. I don't think of anybody else, since it's as good as at least Part of this group. Of course, he's no more uniform than any other group, but there are many of the most difficult people in our society.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u33	President. You wonder when such a bill is negotiated whether those who suggest that the adjustment has ever been experienced as to not having food, what it's like to try to make ends meet for the month. I know a lot of people who are or have been in that position for every month to pay for everything they owe and so have nothing left, and then wonder how to survive the month. This often leads to a mother's service or to church aid or to any of these differing funds or institutions that are giving a poor meal in bags. There's nothing to be surprised about. Those who have lived under a long - term lack of employment have nothing to do with them, and they cannot afford to be cut off from their duty, their supply, and its removal. I don't think those who measure out that people go and get help, just go and get a job don't realize that work is often not suitable for them. As I have seen in the past, often it is so that when people are asked to accept employment, they are not at all suitable. Watchout doesn't work for everyone. For example, it is not suitable for single parents and a job far away, if the person does not have access to a car, may not be suitable at night or at night, since public transportation is not available. I wondered if such suggestions are taken into account in these suggestions, I don't think. What I feel is obvious and needs to be taken into consideration, and it was presented in a sermon. paritaprevir Steingrímur Sigfússon Sigfusons earlier is that there is a lack of harmony between different institutions and social ladders when it comes to caring for the worst. Most people today do not wish for unemployment and very many who are on unemployment records today or who were now forced to get alimony from a local society, have been very diligent in applying for employment, since it is simply a duty to apply for employment if you are on unemployment or if you receive a salary from a working agency. So people may already have applied for their lives, and they may not get anything. Then it may shock us to see that the local community wants a person who may be off the easyest track to do hard work or that a very educated person will learn to drive a tractor. I've heard of a lot of such cases. I don't think these suggestions reflect that the system can make mistakes or that those who are in the system can make mistakes. A person in the position I mentioned can then face the fact that she is to be taken out of half compensation, which is a lot of money for someone who doesn't have anything, for nearly six months. What are they trying to do with people? Set aside the will to live, is that what it is? This is not a positive motivation, making people more depressed when they constantly worry about their livelihood, their children, or anyone else in their home. I'm very worried about this and I can't support the bill in any way, because here's a complete summary of the people's rights for implementation and overall resources, so it's not. This is really just a question of responsibility for the society in a more delicate position, a question of responsibility for a highly controversial, highly unfair and unprofessional decision to restrict the rights to unemployment reform for six months at ten days' notice. It was a shameful act, and I don't understand how those people here at the Council who participated in accepting that disgusting act can sleep at night, it's so shameful. You would not offer any other community group such a act, except perhaps micropliable or old people, who are struggling to fight for their rights. What I would like to be done on the Committee that gets the case on its own is to take together the rights to further the rights and to reduce the rights, since the declines are considerable, especially when people are promoted by rural society. It is very difficult to attend their basic rights for advancement and, for example, how they are asked together if people have, for example. A place or a place to stay. I would have thought that the alimony rights must be subject to a person of your own. And the amount given is so low that it is shameful. This is similar to the amount of money that is in the case of micropigs, when you start cutting people, they are shameful. Suppose a person, even though she has only half a job, half a day's work, with medium income, wants to apply for company support. That is often the answer: No, you have too much money; you have made so much money in the past six months that you are not entitled to support. That's the way it is. I think those senators who recommend this case should consider what it's like to go and ask for support and assistance. It's a big step, and this doesn't make anybody laugh. Not many are those who are often referred to as credit frauds or reformers, or they are merely nursing mothers. I think it's shameful to pick up an American system that is that way, I heard a discussion about it in the BBC a few months ago, that it seemed like a gasy way to take all the benefits from people because they would be so diligent to get a job if they had no way of getting a living in a farm. Often, though, it is the people who cannot pay for the means of living, and who have no health, health, or ability, or have to leave their children alone at home, which goes into despair in an environment they are not supposed to be in. I wondered when you see such suggestions, which perhaps look rather innocent on paper and may seem to be a good idea when people get them in a ministry, whether that person, e.g. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. A minister of welfare, willing to live under this situation for six months, living under this threat and this shadow without perhaps having any support. People in such situations often do not get jobs despite repeatedly applying for them. It has many social disabilitys, and it is very difficult to get involved in activities when you have been out of work for a long time and you always have no or you don't even have answers. Would it not be easier to treat such people lightly? That was a warning against this region could form groups that were in the position of not getting a job at all. There's been a lot of group information, and it's known that people who are at a certain age have a very difficult time getting a job, it's just known, and let's not be shy about saying it out loud. I've heard of a lot of people living in very difficult situations, and they can't survive half the effort they've made. Even if some part of this group went to work, has there been an assessment of how well people work when they take jobs in despair, often without being able to do so? I know it's impossible for a single parent to be, e.g. In shift work or a job on weekends. That's impossible. Is a support network being taken into account around these people? I don't think so. I think there's some excel thought over the edge, that's what they're trying to scratch in the back because the locals objected to getting over all the reformers that were suddenly taken from their rights. It's amazing. Would anyone else accept that the court is being taken from a man again? No. But it's just that when people are crushed, they don't have the power to fight for their rights. Our role is to ensure that the rights of those who find it difficult to bear their hand in defense of an unjust and inhuman system of things are not violated. I don't want to participate in creating a legal environment that makes the situation very difficult for many Icelanders, the status of people who are already under very difficult circumstances. I don't want to be a part of such a legal arrangement, and I will do what I can to make this never happen. I expect the case will go to what? The welfare committee and the changes will at least be agreed never to do this until it has been established that people do not fall into irons in the system, to ensure that no human will be made to live in half the move from a rural society. There's almost no money. Are people supposed to go and steal for food? What's being suggested? Is people going to starve? Is that what we want in the welfare community in Iceland? Now the land is about to be raised. So why don't we put our arms around the bad guys? Or are we going back to 2007 when the order of the Mother Control Committees was quite long? Why don't we go back in time when the former prime minister at the General said that people don't mind getting free clothes from the Mother Control Committee? Such is the absence of real life in people who have not lived in poverty. And even though it may have lived in poverty when it was kids, it doesn't remember today. Poverty is a disgrace in this community. With this legal arrangement, we are still going to deepen our hopelessness, the problems of people whom we are to put our arms around, and to help with positive alternatives. There were many very positive measures started after the crash that helped, for example. People studying, but not everyone can. And there is no one in the position to sit at home and do nothing with practically no forwards, because it's just, because it's so fun. It's just not like that. If people are in a position where they can't get a job if they try to, they can't get a job. If there are some individuals who do not want a job that is very few, it is for some other deeper social reasons that require support than putting people on God and seared.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u34	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. Jónsdóttir For a very good talk, Birgittir Jónsdotir. I'd kind of like to answer my questions to her to pick up a little bit of the wire where it was. A senator stopped, saying that if people do not accept for any reason or do not want to do something about it, they have a different social problem. That is why my opinion is that we should respond in a way that is very different from accepting the benefits. That's kind of what I want to ask you. A senator into and her vision of the purpose of this bill, to get people involved. I think this is where we're going in the wrong direction, and by taking these little financial help from people, we're pushing people into even greater inactivity, so we want to ask them why. Senator: Are we not likely to push people further on the edge and make the status of people who are already in a very difficult social situation even worse?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u35	President. That's a very good question, thank you. A senator for her. It is clear that this will only push people deeper into some situation that is very difficult to get out of. I would have liked to see an impulse system. This reminds me a little bit of that when you spank children to make them behave better, here to scare people to do better. It doesn't work that way. Everything you do out of fear is doomed to failure, and for a long time I think these holes need to be viewed and how to create a support network. We have moved ever more into such a community where no one knows our neighbors, and there is no support network for people, it disappears. It was never possible to create a very powerful center where people meet. I think there was a center on Breiðholti and Ásbek and Akureyri, where it was a great job, but somehow there weren't a lot of people there and they needed motivation, especially in Reykjavík. I'm afraid people will be lost in the system. That is why we really need to work at finding out how to motivate people to work. There are very detailed studies of how difficult it is for people who have been unemployed for a certain period of time to become active again. I don't think moving is the right way, or I know it, I know it's not the right way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u36	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answers, and we obviously view these matters very similar. When I read a paper with the bill, I noticed that there's a lot of talk there or a slight assessment of what the saving effect is going to have. However, there is no analysis of the social impact that this will bring on the future. I think we've reached a very high level of ice here. There's another thing I noticed in a talk. This was the case with a member of the body who named income connections to a marriage mate. " After many years of fighting, I wondered, " I was able to cope with microchip, and some decisions were finally to change my income from one mate's income to one's income. ' I think there is good reason to wonder if we have established the social services and the development of rural society that we should eliminate income benefits from a mate's income and consider them to be part of the need for the advancement of their community as individuals rather than to be attached to someone else in the family. I'd love to hear what it's like. A senator will take comfort in this idea I cast here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u37	President. I think it's a very important idea that I'm telling you. The welfare committee to implement it because this is a basic human right. It sucks for anyone to be up on his mate. I know of a woman who suffered from loss of employment, who was not entitled to unemployment, she was advised to go to the country, but she was not entitled to pay because her husband felt that she had too much money, which was not very high in the performance of two adults and children. The person then needed his husband's allowance. You can't offer such an offer, whether it's a woman or a man who is in that position. So I think it's worth a round of business. Then I also find it extremely important that at work that will take place on a committee, the experiences of other nations will be considered when people are pressured into employment. I find it very important to look at special, if people are forced into employment options that are not suitable for them, how long people will be able to keep their jobs. It would also be helpful to examine the kinds of social services available to those in that position and whatever resources they are available because it is very often difficult to get information about their community rights. It's completely different in Denmark, and people just get a document by which rights they have. This is where we need to pull this thing out with rags.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u38	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a bill of the highest order. Social and housing minister for a change in rural social services law as presented above, much debated matters in many ways. I can say almost every word in my speech. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir here, and maybe especially what concerns an excel tendency is when talking about people. I listened to the background. Ministers and answers to her and I think it's a lot of thought how far people's everyday lives are at times, and how busy we are often from numbers and columns, we here to form a frame around society. I can't pass by, Your Honorable President, in this discussion, quoting a report of the welfare department submitted until the dawn, in January. It offers suggestions on how to overcome poverty. This is so amazingly typical in many ways when people do things in the wrong order. The QA report of measures to overcome poverty also involves financial support. It also concerns the children of people who were on unemployment and who have been snatched away by a single piece of pen. This report does not involve just some. It does not expect people to disappear from systems such as the shorter unemployment rate, when the discussion was no longer like it, just to let columns stop. Where are the people going? Where should they go, the families, and the children dependent on society, the association of forming a community, of living up to their daily needs? Where are they supposed to go? A respectable president. The vision given here shows that the minister and the government have completely lost their focus on society. Totally lost sight of it. We knew that all along during the crash, and our names were one of the main parts of the rural community. One of the main roles of rural society was that after all, we make sure that everyone gets a place to eat and a place to eat. In fact, in the old days, it was a vow to become part of the country. And why? It was because the band viewed her as a responsibility, also to her smallest brothers, even to those who did not accept any conditions, who did no part and no other part, and the efficiency of their time was not enough. This is where society is being changed. This suggests that society is changed from our shared responsibility to the fact that it is accepted and normal to torture and starve people who are in the most troubled society. A respectable president. This is not in any way acceptable. A team of green green people will fall against this case of great weight. It is our responsibility to attack the land's poverty. I believe that the highest. Secretary of society and housing would agree with me on that. More often than not, it has been the voice of the government class described in the terms of those most difficult in society. More than not. But to suggest that financial support can be cut down step by judicial action and punishment, into a course of demeaning methods, that is not consistent with the ideologies I thought to be the highest. There would be a minister. I didn't think so. I think it would be good for all of us to read a report on the welfare department as a summary of its suggestions. The chapter on minimum progress criteria, with the permission of the president, states: ▪ The government covers the assumptions and calculations that are behind sums of money to the minimum extent possible for individuals, families, and children not living in poverty. Even these people, they don't live in poverty. The motion that follows, says by permission of the president: It will be considered whether such criteria - this refers to the consumption criteria published by the Ministry of Health for 2011 - are intended to be legalized or should be guided by (director) as far as the financial support of a community is concerned. These improvements will also be considered to be impaired because of a partner's income and the use of a so - called effective program. The improvement in effective measures should be considered. What does that mean, a respectable president? What does it mean to consider whether to use the impairments and then offer a bill that is about the same time? Which is it the Minister wants? The Minister wants to proceed with the proposal of the welfare department at any given moment. former minister, Siv Friðleifsdóttir, has spoken in the media, is that the policy, or is it the Minister's punishment bill? Which is it? In a report of the welfare watch on page 6. 14 is referred to a bill at the highest level. Minister. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ It was recently submitted to the General bill to legalize the Community Services Act, No. 40/1991, with subsequent changes (required financial support conditions). The introduction of comments to the bill says: "On the other hand, a minister is assigned to provide guidelines for rural society for the implementation of financial support, which includes: provides guidelines for financial support that rural society can apply to the sentence of its own regulations for the implementation of financial support. However, rural society is suggested to provide better sources to provide financial support for local community services in the activities of those who are employed and to receive financial support where they have not been hired. The report states: "It seems proper to the staff to observe closely how the bill is angry at the council. Why does the health care department want to be closely monitored for the anger of the bill at the council? Why does the health care department want to do that? Perhaps it is because the welfare department feels that governments, as stated on page 24 do. 3, further and more justly, support children's low income families by simplifying and improving the improvement system involved in children's families, and that they are to overexpensive the assumptions and calculations responsible for a minimum supply with the goal that individuals, families, and children do not live in poverty? Might that be why the health care department urges us generals to keep a close eye on where we are using the Minister's bill? A respectable president. Indeed, the minister has a number of problems when a community knocks on the door because they suddenly feel pressured, as new 500 million come upon them during the shorter unemployment period. There's a contract right, a right that happens and comes to what? Workforce contact with employers in the labour market And the rural communities turn to the government and ask for understanding. The minister's got a few problems, that's understandable. However, the minister of the family affairs, the minister of social affairs, and the minister of the people's fight against poverty cannot suggest this. He cannot suggest this unless the proposals of the welfare watch are for decorations, that the proposals of the welfare department are not really for attention. Are they not foreordaining? Do we not want to lay them down, stop and fight the poverty and humiliation of family and children in this country? Is that not what we want to do? It's not working at the same time that people suggest these conditions. I want to believe that, a respectable president, and I'm at the top. Minister has asked for the word against me, to the highest degree. A minister is willing to address the serious review of the case by the committee. I want to believe that this is not the sole will of the Minister. It's such a bad approach. I think that we, who have experience in raising children and telling them to come to a person, know that it is not the way to build a upbuilding life and a positive relationship to torture or punish people. Happily, most of the world's mines have been removed. What is focused on here is the importance of we at the council, and I ask for ministers and others who care about these matters, that we do not forget the main roles of society. It's important to return the state funds without a tilt. It is important to ensure good and clear management of rural society, but rural society is not a company. Farming is not just a business unit. Farmers are primarily communities. And good and strong communities make it possible that every man and every woman and every child should live with the right to live with dignity. To live with dignity and not to be humiliated or to live up to government disrespect. This is an important assignment. This is an important role. In the bill of the Minister for Law on Social Services, I miss the tone expressed by the welfare department, which is an understanding of the people's interest in public, an understanding of the benefit of poor people in Iceland, but poverty, as shown here in previous talks, is a crime against people. We are to unite in destroying it. Therefore, I especially want to encourage the Minister to follow up firmly and firmly because we as a community are in a position compared to the nations of the world that we can eliminate poverty. We can. And we can especially look forward to destroying the poverty of children and, on the other hand, destroying what is called the plot of intense poverty. That's what we're supposed to do. It's a bill. It's a TV. Minister for changing the local social services law is not the way to do that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u39	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for her speech. I would have wished that she had been involved in more serious matters and maybe less dramatic. I want to ask you why. A senator whether she has adopted the case the way she did it here in her talk to a representative of the left green who was in more part at Hafnarfjörður during her last term and set up the project Go ◯ New Opportunities in Hafnarfjörður, where conditions can be found. Enlightened. A councilman with regard to his stand and used the same word she used here for me and descriptions of the conditions in the city of Reykjavík, where there are, in fact, rules that apply to people's medical situation? That's what I'm talking about. A senator disagrees or accepts that the legal uncertainty will remain in place that now enable rural society to set conditions they want to meet? When we went over the communities that have some kind of conditions in their rules for financial support, it was found that one community did not have such conditions, that is, the western settlement, the Western province's community service.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u40	A respectable president. Because it's the highest. First, a minister would give me grades for my speech. Then I would also like to state that I was disappointed by the approach of the Supreme Court. Unfortunately, a minister who is quite common in answer to a minister in the present government, that is the opening point: Were you any better? This is not an upbuilding approach in the discussion. Yes, I have felt the same way for a long time as I have expressed that view to both those who came to the case in Hafnarfnarfjördur and in Reykjavík. In fact, I believe that, and I think that in the left movement, we in a high-rate green supply are of the opinion that this is not a legal basis for doing what it is today. In fact, I believe that we should not make the arrangement in this law that it is permitted. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Is she really going to do this without discussing the point? Will she look first to see if anyone else has ever done anything or used the same word in a speech? A respectable president. V.E.G. Minister has the commission now. V.E.G. Ministers are not in opposition to the government of Jóhanna and Steingrímur. It's over. That period is past, so to speak. A minister needs to adjust his speech, take responsibility for his cause, and recognize that this matter in the United States will increase poverty but will not diminish it. It's the highest responsibility. Minister when she recommends it here. Absolutely away from what's wrong. Councilmen of the left green have said before and now or will say it stands and, of course, will fall with their own emphasis. It'll be the highest. Minister to face.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u41	A respectable president. In my speech, I offered excellent reasons for this matter, though, in my opinion, that may be the case. A senator disagrees with me. A bill with the bill also gives reasons for the case and why I stand here and speak for it. It is very strange, however, to hear very little in the language. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir experience in these matters if we review the evidence and as much positive experience in the Hafnarfjörður where the project was initiated Go ◯ New Opportunities in Hafnarfjörður. It presents a highly active, social - service policy that has yielded good results, since people have been able to cooperate fully with the Labour Organization. This is not to say that people are being given money or money. Rather, they sit down with each person and work a complete program to help people. That's what I speak for and what I think men were doing right in Hafnarfjörður. That's what the left green at Hafnarfjörður did well. I believe, however, that the frame needs significant because, in my opinion, it should not be allowed at all, as is now the legal uncertainty involved in the terms of financial support, to impair assistance specifically intended for children according to local regulations. This is very clear for this. I'm here giving an example of Reykjavíkurburg, that there is a loss of compensation for people who have a doctor's certificate and who are not able to work. There's something that I think is very urgent that the committee is going very well. [[The president calls.]] Here are some practical and grammatical suggestions that deal with the framework of these limitations and conditions. I certainly hope it's well thought of by the committee. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But in my opinion, it's a good thing to help people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u42	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the speech. Of course, the common responsibility of society for its people and its citizens is very important. How important it is that we help when someone is having a bad turn or death! That, of course, is part of the highest. A minister talks here and shows up in the case, i.e. to encourage functioning, to have a variety of plans, advice, work, and so forth to help people and real participation and community activity. It's very good, I agree. However, we must not forget that the role of those in this place in the operating system, i.e. Those with social issues are looking to those who cannot take advantage of the resources, those who do not have to say in spite of all the interviews, those who do not get jobs, those who are still in trouble when all the talk is being used. But that's when the impairment begins. That's when it starts. V.E.G. A minister spoke as if everyone had found work in the Hafnarfjörður program and that there was a complete plan to help people, or there is a vision of the Minister on what is suggested in the bill. But we must not forget that there are always some who fall between ships and docks and about them at the highest. A minister should think primarily because it is her role in the Ministerial class to make sure that everyone can enjoy himself without living in poverty. On the other hand, I rejoice to the highest. According to a minister, the committee will handle the matter well. [[The president calls.]] Of course, I hope that the committee will and will be guided by the operation of the health care department. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u43	A respectable president. I'd like to make a few comments to the bill available about changing the law on local community social services and making particularly two things to talk about here. The first thing I especially want to discuss is 1st. where it is stated that a minister will submit guidelines to local administration annually in consultation with the European Union for the implementation of financial support as well as the financial spending level for financial support. There has been a long talk in the political world, and I am one of those who have adopted the view that the extreme difference between different sides is how different the criteria are used to determine financial support. The reasons against these rules are that rural society is independent and that it is important for them to have independence in order to make their own decisions. This is probably the reason why it is referred only to guidance rules in consultation with the European Union. How does it rhyme with a suggestion? paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir made up a subject of publicity earlier and more of it. Since the other day, no doubt members of the council have made these discussions suggestions on the welfare department. The second suggestion contains the heading ◯ Notes for minimal implementation. The objective is for the government to override the criteria and calculations that are behind the amount of money for minimal progress with the aim that individuals, families, and children do not live in poverty. Of course, it is shocking when we hear the figures that have been published from various sources about the poverty of people here on earth, especially children. How important it is that we combine in ways to fight poverty! The proposal of the welfare watch is that governments define minimum moving goals aimed at not living in poverty between individuals and families. It's so impressive when we get to make data like the ones that have now been published about how these assets are divided into this society where 10% owns the 70% of property. We know that there are possessions. There's no evidence that anyone should live here in poverty. That is why it is so important that we deal with it, and we too are ready to do what is necessary. Then I come to what this bill isn't about, but it's how we divide the cake, how we raise the money. I would have chosen to see here that the wealth tax continued in order to finance our being able to proceed properly to measures aimed at destroying poverty. It's called, a respectable president, to reconsider the exchange of the cake. Now, that's a suggestion, it's just important to set minimum goals. Of course, we also need the courage to take the money from those who have it so that they can come to those who have the greatest need for it. The proposal of the welfare watch says that it is important that governments, countries and rural groups work together with stakeholders so that they can achieve the most widely established criteria for making minimal improvements. There, the welfare watch gives a special witness to Icelandic consumer guidelines published on the Homepage of the Ministry of Health, which I quoted yesterday. What is the consumption target for a family of five? It says here in the motion of the welfare department, by permission of the President: They will be checked whether such criteria should be legal, or whether they should be guided (indirect) Of course, to discuss these matters, the communities must be called to the table. True, the independence of rural society is important, but it must be possible for them to agree that it is also important that rural society ensures that all those in it have decent living. For example, there is now financial support in Reykjavík, but it is not at all there, 174,952k. per person according to the data I found on the home page of Reykjavík. Health Ministry spending targets are always determined that housing costs are not included. Another question: Doesn't the cost of housing have to be included in consumption criteria? But well, the Ministry's consumption criteria for one individual without housing costs are now 234,564. which is approximately 60 far. K. higher. I would say that it was worth about a quarter of a amount above the financial value of Reykjavík City. I think it's just a question number one in this case. The financial support needs to be coordinated. You have to get your communities to the table so they'll agree that they'll be united. There we must weigh the evidence on the other hand in independence of our rural society and on the other hand, in order to ensure that all people make decent living. Second, of course, there is a need to ensure that progress is in harmony with the standards of consumption that even governments are making. Of course, people ask - no matter where I come from, people ask, " How do I get into the public consumer markets and then there's money benefits, financial support, not in line with these public consumption criteria? ' This is a discussion that we also need to take in this regard. I feel that the welfare watch is approaching this subject with its suggestions. It is also sobering to consider why we are not dealing with this bill in the context of those suggestions. The other thing I'd like to make a subject here is the requirement for financial support. Because it's the highest. A minister found special reason to discuss here the position of the left movement - the green bid and its individual platoon leaders, this has been repeated at our meetings, assemblies, and conventions. Our policy has not been to agree with such conditions. However, it is clear that our representatives have shared in cooperation because they have agreed to such conditions. We're in a hurry. It's like the highest. A minister showed them it is absolutely true that there are very many societies that set any such conditions. Then I must ask: Is this bill primarily a response to the fact that rural society wants clear legal authority to set such conditions? Do we not need political discussions in this hall about that frame? Does it not involve more than just giving the locals authority to set such conditions? Do you not have to feel that there must be much more clear communication between this assistance so that it does not matter whether you live in Reykjavík, Kópavogi, Akureyri, or where? Why not consider some of the public consumption criteria of the Ministry of Health? Does this box not have to be clear before discussing conditions for such financial support? The reason that very many in my movement are critical of such conditions is that the financial support of rural society is often the last available option. Recently, unemployment reform has been reduced. This was done without any reason other than their lack of unemployment, which I consider to be no evidence of in view of the fact that the period has become considerably shorter than when almost no one had the same unemployment record. So there are no reasons why there are so many people on the list each time. It created problems for the communities and for the cost. Here comes a bill that allows the rural communities to set conditions and the results, according to the Ministry's opinion, this bill will have a positive effect on the economy of rural society. So that's where they're trying to get the company accounts. I feel that I lack the political vision that I would have liked to see in this bill to put this in line with the suggestions we have from the welfare department, including child reforms and guidelines for minimal progress, which I make for a specific subject here. To me, the suggestions of the welfare department are modest in relation to what is being discussed around the world, that it should simply be a set minimum advance for all regardless of their status or whether they are employed or not because it is only part of a community. It's the radical ideas that are going on. Here are some very modest ideas. The house - to - house situation is difficult, not only because of the cost but also because less families in the country that cannot buy their own housing are in a very uncertain position. The tenant market is not active, and rent prices are high, especially in Reykjavík, where a situation is difficult. Now I speak as a member of the assembly of Reykjavík. I have no record of that city, of the people who have come up with me and described their difficult situation in a tenet, which is that if people at one table have come into a rented house, they do not comment even if laws are violated against their rights, for they fear nothing more than to lose their home. That's the situation for tenants. Granted, the work group reports were presented here, but we are still waiting for the highest level. Minister show the cards in the housing case. It's the basic services the welfare department takes up. What's going on with the basic services? Are we not raising attendance charges in the health - care system? Are we not limiting the bioavailability of those over 25 years of age at higher education? I have met many people after this decision was made here around a budget bill. She was not introduced to the highest white book. Rather, it was taken into account with a financial bill. I've met a lot of people who think this way that the government is closing the doors in terms of education access. Then comes this fancy proposal for the basic services, which, in turn, is contrary to what has already been done. A respectable president. I'm not gonna have this much further. I emphasize the fundamentals. We can say that this is a request for the Lawgiver's blessing on what is practitiony, but we do not walk in other matters. Then, for example, I come back to carry out financial support and the reference places. There is still no political debate as to whether we will take some real steps forward in the direction of the welfare department. So I don't think it's possible to take such a step as long as the picture is not discussed and tore. There have been many groups of work here, the welfare department has these suggestions, and we have an arrangement for housing. I want to see the cards and see where we're headed. Then we will see what really happens when the budget is taken care of, and what priorities will be expressed in comings, access to education, and so forth. Although these suggestions look good, I want to feel that they should be worked out. I think there needs to be a firm foundation before we can begin talking to the other honored President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u44	Mr. President. We're here to discuss a bill to legalize the law on local social services. What most stands out on the bill in my opinion is the requirement for financial support. I find it a turning point when we are in a position to use a lot of pressure to get rid of those who are sick and to accept financial support from our rural society. I would have felt, as has been said in many cases in this discussion, that we would need to see the larger frame of approach to people who have lost their jobs, are ill, have become ill, and are in dire terms, how we see that group of people in the community having the potential to provide for themselves and theirs. We've been living in a safety network where rural society has an obligation. Granted, not all who have the right to make that move, but with this bill, the group is being narrowed down further and hardened by its rules, allowing the rural communities to reduce the development, the financial support of up to half if the member fails to meet the conditions set by the local community or by the Ministry's Guidebook. I'd love to hear it from the top. Social and housing minister to see if any consultations have been made with the labor movement in this case. This large community affairs and welfare issues, and the labor movement has been the party with the government that has shaped the welfare community we live in today's world. Sadly, there have been developments in the process of reducing the number of factors that have been achieved over the years. We can review recent declines in unemployment rights. I don't like it if it's the best. Ministers have taken care of this matter without calling for a higher level of contact than the European Union to discuss this big issue. This is a problem that must be seen in the context. As we have seen, we are a community, we are not one of the companies who are trying to manipulate into one and rid themselves of those in the community that do not produce more material. There will always be groups in every society that keep their feet down, and it's not decent for us to try to beat them down like bad people by building rules so that they lose the safety net we're supposed to have. I'm all for working with people who have come to a place where they don't have the right to make unemployment and have to accept the financial help of an outfit, but hopefully this isn't the long term but, unfortunately, that is temporary, though some of us may be in that situation for a while, unfortunately. We are to support these people as much as possible in looking for ways and finding a job that is suitable for them, in education, and in providing the most suitable social services for each individual, to work best with each individual. I'm very into it, but I don't approve of promoting the like that if things don't work out, as the authority says, people are punished by temporarily taking it out of financial reforms and reducing financial support by as much as half. Such practices do not identify me with the society we talk about on contending days, a society that is primarily in the world's best interests. This is a sign that the government is very right, so we take it in the big context. I'm very sorry to think, since I know I'm the best. A social minister has many good feelings about these matters, that she has come to the point of agreeing to the extreme right view that the group in these situations is only there to raise taxes, and people are not in need of work, and he intends to take a shortcut to get his money. I think it can see who knows that there's something very wrong and it's very difficult when people are in the situation of having to apply for alimony with the company. They are burdensome to anyone who has to do this. If we're going to do this as the bill says, with these negative impulses, with punishment, that I think these people's feelings might be even worse, and their health and strength to continue fighting may grow worse. I'd like to say that I think we should use the motivations we know, such as employment rehabilitation and working with a labour agency, that's very good, but don't go into the much impairment that's being proclaimed. It has been established on the Department of Health for Use, which is just over 234 levels. K. every month without having the facilities in there. We know that rural financial support varies. It is also said here that financial support should be coordinated by counseling local regulations. All right, well, it's normal to look at it, not to drive it down to the lowest, but rather to look to consumers published by the Ministry of Health. It is far from the numbers you know that the financial support of your rural society is paying today to those applying for help in that town. I hope this case goes well with the committee and kicks out of the penalty line as the Ministry and the Supreme Court. Ministers of society and housing have set up here and brought something more positive, where people can be more able to work with them than is being done today. It has also included suggestions for the welfare department, which are a very good and good report, and you ask yourself: " Why is it on earth? A minister calling for suggestions from different angles and then ignoring them? Or how do these suggestions suggest the proposal of the welfare department to aim for minimal progress and to look for ways to improve child reform and coordinate the services available and have a powerful support network? Of course, something must be, there must be a powerful support network so that individuals do not fall between it and no one wants to know about it. What is in store for these people? Do we want to see people begging on the streets or in the forwarding of some sort of social organization, motherhood committees, or other valuable groups? They are not to take full responsibility for our community. Rather, they are a free society that wants to assist in various matters. I also mention the church. We do not want to see that people need to be reformers and walk around calling for help, that society has already turned them down, and that they have no right to accept support in difficult situations they face at any time. This is what I want to say in this first and foremost. I am also deeply concerned about the increase in poverty in this country and the poverty trap in which many families have fallen. A new generation grows up in poverty, children who do not have the same potential as other children to have what seems acceptable today, pursue sports, and participate in what they offer when they are children. Sadly, there are all too many people who have experienced a real shortage, and there is a group among those who need to get financial help. I don't think it's the responsibility of the community on this bill to protect the human rights I consider to be, that people can be put out of God and left out temporarily if they don't fall into the Ministry or Company regulations so that the community can save every year. But as mentioned, this bill may have turned out to be 150 million, I feel like I've seen that number somewhere around here. It's low, I think, if this is what they're going to reap in those chemicals and then raise the cost of working on this new system, an increase in control of them, but the savings are this. Where, then, does this problem go? I feel that governments need to answer the problem. He's not going to disappear, it's like when the unemployment period was cut short. At that time, it was as if the people who failed were suddenly to get work as if it were nothing or really disappeared and the unemployment broke down. And somewhere, evil must be, although it may not be in good taste to say it that way. I insist that we live these groups in such an environment that people can live with dignity.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u45	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir for the speech. She spoke of her being very supportive of social advisers and other experts with those who need to consult social authorities in their community. I totally agree with what. A senator, how important it is that people in difficult circumstances get help to get out of them! But then I want the senator after one thing; I think that it is the duty of the local community to provide them with social services, but it seems that these matters are not in good enough condition, although there are undoubtedly differences between rural communities, and it seems possible to shorten themselves by setting these conditions. It is going into good laws and is changing them in a different direction, yet it is known that economic support is least proportionately greater now than it has been in other times of economic depression, and normally it does not take long to provide financial support. Also, there are some who have more serious problems, and conditions will not bring them anything unless they are pushed further to the edge. I want the senator to know if she'll experience the same things I do, that the communities are somehow not facing it. This is a service they must perform, so they want to be conditioned to avoid carrying out their legal duties.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u46	Mr. President. Yes, I agree that rural society, of course, must take the responsibility to provide services whether it is social service, support, or other factors that focus on mental health, psychological services. When people are brought to that place, they call for such service. They don't have the means to buy that service in a town, that's what they say. I had somehow imagined that it should follow these conditions that such a thing was available without the cost of paying the person. Of course, if it isn't, it's just to make the matter worse than it already is and to show that it's over thinking and not thinking in the overall context, with the guidance of putting our arms around this group, the community of our all. Hv. A senator admitted that more often than not a long event at this place, and hopefully it is not. I strongly recommend that people get as much support as possible to get back into life and be saved. But people there are very different, and they need different support, and we just have to face it, not everyone is the same. We have also talked about the growth of microorganisms. [[The president calls.]] We need to watch all of this together.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u47	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. That's exactly what we're all not the same, and it's good to live in a society where effort is not required because it's oppressive. Now, my experience in cooperation with the European Union, as well as the intuition I have in the work of several rural partners, is that I generally feel that there is great ambition. This is a problem because growing charges are on the farm because of financial support. But I feel that the bill is destroying a good system because of some short - term problem that is relatively easy to solve by increasing financial contributions. I know money isn't picked up by trees, but you can't decide to save in the lowest security net. I would like to encourage everyone, both local and local rulers, to place themselves in the place of those who are poor and who have the insecurity involved. It creates a very difficult situation in people and eventually has a profound impact on their identity, and the way we meet those who are in a situation is of vital importance. I think we're all supposed to wonder - some here may have had to look at the graces of their local society, I don't know - if we're ever going to have to get financial help so that we can buy something to eat, what kind of attitude we would like to attend, and what might be our most likely attitude that we can go back to provide for ourselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u48	Yes, I think it's good for all of us to be able to relate to others, to need them, and to do so, to put ourselves in the place of others. We should imagine that we need to take these heavy steps toward the community in which we live and fill out an application for financial support. Of course, this often outweighs tears. Why are the numbers of people who are applying for financial support in their communities increased because of what? Should we not also ask ourselves that question? Is it not, then, that there is something wrong in the community that causes the number of people who need this help? Something's wrong, isn't it? Dissociation in society is growing, and the real problem of housing, as it has come into place, is that poorer people, young people have no chance of obtaining housing and renting such things as this, of course, that it is high that people are also unable to pay what is needed. More often than not, people turn to their family members and live at home, young people who want to have their own home. I think we need to take this discussion. The result is becoming more apparent, that more and more people are reaching the point of having to get help, social assistance, that we would not otherwise have to face if the cookie was divided correctly and not always moving more and more on the few people.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u49	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir for the speech. Like I'm the bill, it's the motivation for people to get help from rural society to get back into the workforce. I see it as an incentive to help individuals who are depressed and who need help to get started, and I even need some practical measures. All of us can find ourselves in the loss of our job and in situations where we need the help of our community. In my hometown, Ak Aranei, there is an effective resource called resuscitated, which is the cooperation of the Aranesp shop and the Work Programme, which is for individuals between 16 and 30 years of age who accept the financial assistance of the community. The objective is to encourage young jobseekers to work and search and support them in finding job experience in the labour market. These people are supported by job search, and those with little experience in the job market or long since workforce are supported by training, in some cases it is eight hours a week in training or in the workplace training if necessary. They will be helped by a counselor to work on an individual approach according to the objectives of each individual's work and job search field. With progressive counseling, training, and so forth, many individuals have found work with less unemployment. I'd like to see if I could see. A senator does not see any part of the bill that provides incentive for individuals who have been in a difficult position for some time, which is different in length. I'll get to the other part of my second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u50	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'm very into my motivation, but I don't approve of being punished if the motivations aren't working properly. Hv. A senator listed various methods of action and working with those who receive financial assistance, whether they are young, older, or anywhere else. All of this is good and blessed, and I wholeheartedly agree that we should use the most and best possible means to approach individuals, to promote their self - image, and to encourage them, and to help people to find their many abilities and potentials for study support. Everything is just fine, and I can agree with everything. A senator listed. I'm just not in favor of people saying then, "If this doesn't work out exactly the way we want it to, we're going to starve you for obedience." I would think that those who are teachers and teach and work with young people know that such measures do not work. So each person's best interests are achieved by working along with him in a positive, upbuilding way rather than by saying to him: " If you don't do this and it doesn't work out so well, you'll get worse. I think the spirit is a little bit like that in the bill. Is it not possible for us to use positive measures and try to give them people who are in a difficult situation that is most supportive, upbuilding, and then see what the outcome will be? [[The president calls.]] I think she could just be really good.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u51	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answers. As mentioned earlier in my speech, I do not view the bill as punishment. I view it as an incentive to help individuals. This is because I have often met and worked with individuals who have been through these effective measures, and there are few things that please me as much as seeing happy people who are grateful for the motivation they have received, helping to create a CV for counseling at the labour agency, the goal of setting up a professional training or work ethic. At times, I have seen individuals who have been sad and have suffered very badly, the social factor has been very difficult, but since they have participated in functional measures, they have started work. Of course, there are certain aspects of the bill that need to be reexamined and cooperate closely with the health committee, the welfare committee. It will be very good to send the case up and discuss it on the committee. There may well be some bait that we need to work with. I encourage all of us, as well as our discussions at the council, to discuss it well. But as I'm saying, I feel like a huge impulse in the bill for people to be able to get back to the workforce that has been isolated, which has not been in the labour market for a long time. There are factors that I hope most people will use in teaching, i.e. to be encouraging, not discouraging.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u52	Mr. President. We agree to be encouraging, not discouraging. I would like to hear the attitude of those who support this change in rural social services: Who is to bear community responsibility for the temporary relief groups or if the forward is reduced by half? Where should they be directed? Are they saying that they should starve people to obedience? I believe, along with others, that there should be no punishment against the people who are in public at one time or another. Clearly, that is a different view. As the left men and sociologists, our responsibility is our community and that no one can be placed into an excel document and obtained some variable saying: "You don't belong here and we don't want to know about you for a while or your problems, and that means that the problem is solved. The figures look better in the community, fewer people accept financial support because people are thrown into a black hole. This is the difference between right man and left man's approach to social and social services and well - being in general. I'm glad that this clears the way people feel about them. We are to show respect for the individual wherever he is at any time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u53	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a bill to legalize the law on local social services. Its main point is to explain areas in which financial support rules are involved and to eliminate uncertainty. Despite legal uncertainty, a number of rural communities have a breakdown in financial support regulations. Another factor is to enable jobseekers who have their rights rights within the unemployment insurance system to reassign work market activities and prevent long term unemployment from leading to unworkableness. It has been discussed whether your community has the authority to set rules for efficacy in terms of paying financial support. This discussion has focused mainly on those who qualify for employment. It is important to remember that this is a group of people who have been evaluated for employment. The evaluation is based on a consistent professional assessment of employment skills. If this bill becomes legal, the evaluation should be performed in collaboration with the candidate and in the preparation of an individual progress programme. The elements include an excellent list of what can be considered an effective job search. I'd like to draw it out here, with president's permission: The skill of an individual should be based on a consistent professional assessment of professional skills. The evaluation should be performed in collaboration with the candidate and in conjunction with the implementation of the individual progress programme. For active search according to 1 mg. may be considered as follows: a. taking the initiative to look for the job, b. to be prepared to work for any job as a jobseeker is able to do according to the workaholic assessment and is paid according to law and collective agreements, as shown. law on remuneration and the related insurance of pensions, No. 55/1980, with subsequent changes, which include being prepared to attend job interviews, c. to apply for participation in job market activities, compare with Article 7. Marketing Authorisation Holder (Environment), No. 55/2006, e. to participate in active labour market activities, including study tools, e. to provide community service partner or post-operative workforce information necessary to increase the likelihood of getting a job that is appropriate. The provision of a community service partner should be based on the individual needs of the individual and should include social counselling according to section V of this layer. It is also forbidden to set conditions for those who are unemployable. Here we are talking about people who work hard. The bill also suggests that Ministers provide advice on the implementation of financial support, including reference levels, and that rural communities receive more clear sources of financial support for social services. It is suggested that monthly ground level decline be permitted for two months at a time. It is then suggested that monthly basic financial support should not be cut off by more than half. There are two changes in local social services. On the one hand, a minister should issue a guide on the implementation of financial aid society, which includes the guidelines for financial support that rural communities can use to set financial support rules. At the same time, it increases the ability of rural partners to bring better financial support, and it can act as an incentive to reimburse the reference height in a more regular way than it has even been. The main issue in this bill is that it suggests that communities get clear sources of authority to condition financial assistance when assessing work skills and the effective search for those who are considered to be employed. That is a point we must not forget. Active job search involves the initiative to find work, as I once did, i.e. to be ready for a job that can be handled by the person and to apply for and participate in work-offs. As shown in the bill's report, the change is aimed at helping jobseekers find effective jobseekers in the time they receive financial support from rural society. If an individual does not meet the relevant job search requirements, rural society will be permitted to reduce financial support and may reduce the expenses of the rural community. A cut on financial support will only occur after assessment, as previously noted, on the labour skill level, and is based on the provision of assessment by the labour oce organisation, while the workers of the Social Services have previously performed certain diagnostic and preparatory work with candidates. It's not out of thin air. As people know, a recent study of the employment agency shows the importance of active employment policy, as well as the good cooperation of the Agency with rural society. The results of the study show that a greater proportion of the surveyed and fully used were entitled within the unemployment insurance system had been reassigned to the labour market at the time of the survey, or 57.8% of responders. In addition, 5.8% had begun their studies. Thus, 63.6% of respondents claimed to be full - time wage, part - time wage, business, or education. As noted, one of the most prominent examples of active support to people in the financial assistance of fellow rural teams is moving forward in Hafnarfjörður, who received recognition for innovation in public and administration in 2015. It is intended that, in most cases, help will be provided for the function, work, and survival rather than neutrality. All of us know that activity increases happiness, strengthens the individual, and helps him to be an active member of the community. The report on the bill shows that the right of individuals for social assistance is based on a factor 76.3. republics and that they are restricted to needy ones. We note that the person who can provide enough for himself was not expected to have the right to be given such help. With reference to the controversial conditions of 1 mg. 76. g. constitutions, therefore, are considered to be relevant to the grammatical evidence to support the implementation of effective job search criteria for the rights of an individual who is considered to be a workaholic, or entirely a financial aid associate. The same standard of effective job search requirements have been set in the individual's right to unemployment insurance, such as Article 14. Act on unemployment insurance. So here it is to secure the right of the individual. I want to draw close to them, thinking that we are encouraging them to participate, to persons who are able to participate, to get through food, and to be supportive of them, and who are ready to become participants again, no doubt with some help or support. If this is not the case, we should continue to support the individual in the way he or she is in the social system, and we should be careful about the individuals needed. That's what the safety net should be about. We must never give up. We need to support and strengthen those who need to get back and forth into society as active citizens because this will improve their quality of life and happiness.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u54	Mr. President. Thank you. Þórunn Egilsdóttir speech was completed by the Elisdótte. It wants to get close to this bill so that people are being given the right to fail to meet certain conditions. But I think it's very important that we don't overlook the fact that our societies are obliged to move, so, of course, as it is in the 1991 Social Services Act, it's a framework that allows society to set aside space. But my opinion is that they're creating some kind of unemployment insurance legislation B from the Social Services Act. But these are completely different systems with different roles. Unemployment insurance is a labour market-related guarantee that people earn their rights at a labour market and are on unemployment benefits because they've earned their rights and are in an active job search and that's a very clear demand for it. When it comes to social services, it is to ensure that there is no other way to disappear. At the same time, I think most people would agree that it's very important that people be there and helped to help themselves. This will help us to determine whether it should be done by punishment or encouragement. I'd like to ask the senator about these conditions she'd like to consider to be some kind of right, to be making the right thing. I think of them as a rod. What will happen to the people whom we dissuade? Does the senator worry about what happens to people? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u55	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Sigríður, Ingibjörg the Ingadóttir's inquiry and agree with what she said. She pointed a question straight to me and, yes, I often worry about what happens to people, so I'll answer them completely. But we need to know what system we're using and which way we're going. I think we should try to activate as many individuals in our community. The main reason is that each person is allowed to enjoy himself, his abilities, and his skills. It strengthens him, makes him happier, stronger, and better, as it were, more valid for society. Social services are for those who cannot be involved in a workforce for some reason. If we have a chance to activate more to be involved, to participate in some form of functionality, I believe we should do so on the grounds I listed earlier. If this fails, there must be some reason, some threshold that the individual cannot make, and then we must take action and meet that person in the place where he or she is with them saving and the counsel we have. I don't think we need to think of this as a picket line from the Internet, and we continue to strengthen the individuals into society.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u56	Mr. President. It is so important in this discussion to bear in mind that if we look to the capital area and the ratio of the population in response to economic support after 1997, 4% were in financial support, and then the percentage decreased, by 2002/003, was 4%, and now it is 4.2%. So this is totally in accordance with the economic situation and the impact on financial support. Usually, people are short - lived in financial support. It is commendable that many come in only temporarily, due to temporary difficulties. However, in a normal year's trip, those who are associated with individuals who are most in need of help. What I fear most of all is that there will be people who will be even greater than they are already in Icelandic society, that the threat of losing their livelihood would be inadequate, because they have to meet and encourage people and support them to get out of their circumstances. When they begin to view social services as an enemy and that the system somehow plans to dress, it will push into the edge further. We all know that there are boys and girls who go out for drugs, go out and sell themselves. I think we're creating social problems instead of recognizing that we need to put a little more money into the financial support now while we're getting out of the economy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u57	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ingadóttir Inglebjörgdóttir against the answer. I think that in many areas we debate the importance of our net holding, that we keep our arms on the individuals to whom it needs to be held. In view of the fact that this situation has become so much better than ever, there are things in the community that look to better ways, and things seem to be getting better in many ways, I think that this way may encourage more people to get back to work. Never must be, so we start pushing people off the table and handling them as hopeless cases. Then we will not be thinking about our people who need it. Here in this bill, we are talking about people who are skilled and who can participate in the job market. Others should not be moved, they will continue to receive their support, but these individuals, after review and assessment and support from the time they receive assistance and will be developed on an individual basis and will hold the individual in order to get the individual to work. The question is, How long will it take to continue, how many are in that group, and how will that work? I believe this is a means of success.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u58	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Þórunn Egilsdóttir for his speech. It sounds to me like we're on a similar line about our views and the ideas we see in the bill that includes those who are able to work. As noted in the talk "Wicked. " paritaprevir Þórunn Egilsdóttir, many rural communities, however, have laws on delinquency but since these are not clear and are not legal, there is no evidence of the degree of impairment and uncertainty. This bill will deal with it, and a view of those factors will be much better. I repeat, this will only include the individuals with employment opportunities. Those who are not employed keep their place where they are. The bill also works. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether it does not improve the efforts of individuals to be supportive of the job search and whether it is an incentive for individuals with little experience in the job market or for long periods of time from the job market to get support to get into the job training and work ethic if necessary. In such impulse measures, you will work on an individual approach based on the objectives of your individual work, job search, and field. Then the person receives specific counseling, instruction, and training, which is said to provide advice. Counts 'em out. A senator did not see this as an improvement for those who have been long since the job market? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u59	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Arnardóttir Eagledotir for the answer and the question. Yes, I believe this can be a great source of encouragement, and I know it, in fact, and I have seen people who receive the right support and right help start again. Some people just need a little encouragement to get back on the road. We know that when people have been from a job market for a long time, are inactive, sometimes require much effort and even less, but most need support to get back on track. So how important it is that we look at each individual and work out his abilities and abilities and support him to become active again! It does not always take long for people to get depressed or underactive, so we need to be really alert. Each week, and each month of inactivity, reduces the likelihood that the person will return without help and help. So, of course, I have faith in this and the examples prove it as if I've been picked up here in speeches and I mentioned it here. As they are being done in the school and elsewhere, we need to look at the individual, have an individual approach, and face people in the place where they are going and continue to lead them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u60	V.E.G. President. I'm not really coming back, I'm going to say thank you. A senator for the answer. I want to agree with her and say that it gives you a lot of satisfaction when you see individuals who have made it back to the job market, individuals who have, for example, come to work again. had a long time at home, isolated from socialism, and really bad feelings like that. It is nice to hear from those who have taken advantage of effective measures and who express joy in the support they have received about setting goals and reaching the workforce. I really hope that the bill we're discussing here will be in such a way that more people get help, specific help, to get out and become active again, and to participate in social situations.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u61	Mr. President. I have to say, there's no greater happiness in talking about this and I find it contradictory when people get up and say that now all these things are getting so much better because the job situation has improved so much and the situation has become more manageable and the problem has been shrinking and the economy is taking over and what it is now. Then you must ask, " Why, then, do we really have to take steps in the opposite direction? ' Is not the problem more manageable? So why don't we just do better? Do we have to go all the way to that, and to legalize such restricted measures? In itself, this is not to be reasoned with by rural society to some extent in a grey area. The Synod may do exactly the same way, saying: "We're just gonna stop it. We want this help to be there as our last resort, always. I refer back to what I said about this as a matter of state and community involvement far better than ever, and consider it part of a whole-scale system with which I am able to deal with and deal with the circumstances of those who suffer from losing their jobs and/or spending a long time outside the labour market, even if they have lost their right to unemployment and have to rely on progress from the local community. But this does not happen, as it has been revealed today, that the state decides to reduce the time of unemployment. This adds to the pressure from their rural communities that they can suffer from the same type of impairment, probably in order for them to have some inhibitors to contain otherwise growing expenses for financial support, or that is how it has appeared to you. It is simply right and satisfying that since reaching its peak in 2010, the job situation has progressively improved. And there is more positive than that, hopefully, there will be fewer times when people are in this position. This will likely also mean that the situation in the workforce makes it more manageable to volunteer. May I remind you that this was one of the biggest things in the world when things were the most serious. At that time, the workers, the unions of the labour market, state, and community, brought in some of the money from the unemployment reform system in creating jobs, and the labour market committed itself to offer a certain number, rural communities a certain number, the state a certain number, etc. I don't see in the bill that this is to follow any such obligation or that there are activities that at least have to do with that type of activity. I think it should at least start with a positive approach and consider the possibilities of positive motivations, and increase the likelihood that those in this position will remain active and even improve their positions by training, re-education, seminary, and so on. That's why I think it could go exactly in the opposite direction to what's in this bill, and I'd like to offer incentives in the system so that people would maintain non-invasive financial support but would be able to get added to the fact that they're taking courses, taking specific functions, and thus developing motivations, positive motivations, to get in such measures. It would also be possible to work through commitment to have light jobs that would be suitable for those who were trying to get back to the work market and to take their first steps there, and that for those jobs there would be paid some amount of money that would make them financially worth more than being in financial assistance alone. If the conclusion of experimenting with such a course was that it had not proved to be effective enough, would it be possible to pause and wonder: Must the other way somehow be affected by the threat of a diminished ghost? There is an extremely sad and negative approach in this case, and actually I can't accept it because of the nature of this last social deliberation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u62	Mr. President. I thank the senator for his speech. I've covered it several times here -- I took the capital area off Haguen's website, since it simplified my work in the assembly - in the capital area, a similar proportion of people have been in financial support after economic depression. The only exception today is that the ratio is similar in spite of much more unemployment in the economic crisis following the collapse. Thus, the actions of the former government, the workforce, evidently contributed to the less pressures on rural society. Of course, rural communities are very limited in their ability to cope with increased spells, and this is one of the ways in which they are viewed, to receive the condition of financial support, which, of course, is considerable mail in their financial situation, yes, in their financial budgets, as it were. It is so important to remember the story and remember how things have been done and to examine them in the right context. And I wish I could. A senator and a former minister of finance would review how the greatest tribulation in the rural community had been brought to reduce their curses in the wake of the collapse. There may be a reason for similar thinking, to face them similarly, I'm not going to say anything about it. But it would be nice to have this review, because history matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u63	Mr. President. I could go far and take more than two minutes to review how I believe that the rural communities in themselves have generally managed to cope with the difficulties, and especially because they benefited from the many measures and measures made by the State. Among them and most important, they benefited naturally from government efforts to earn new income, since the rural communities first automatically receive 2.12% of all the taxes that the state collects through the balance fund. They received a large amount of money from government arrangements related to the payment of special property, and for many other reasons the measures and actions of the State were greatly appreciated by the rural community. True, they also shouldered the burdens, of course they suffered considerable influence, especially because many of them were heavily indebted and therefore had little to carry. When we look back at that period and remember that unemployment went well over 9% and lasted about 7, 8 or 9% for two years or so, I think that would be hardly anything but that we've been successful in doing it, of course, with very extensive measures. And there would be something in the way that I would like to see here, that we were discussing how the posetium stopped, positive action, motivation, support, upbuilding support, not the criminal we tried to cooperate with this group. I wouldn't feel that wrong when the State came along with the local community. Suppose, for example, that the rural community went on to offer up the basic pension for participation in operations and attending courses and so forth, even though it had some expense, and the state offered to pay half as much as it did, those who didn't go to the limit and put them aside for a while, work out the problem completely on the contrary, and the state said: "Well, let's go along with you. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u64	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon respond and thank him for this review. It is so important to remember that if the will is at hand, there are many ways. It is very easy to say that those who receive compensation or assistance of any kind need to show responsibility, that such rights are related to responsibilities, and that people need to dress up and be ready to take responsibility for their own lives. It is easy to speak in that way. Who's going to recommend to people that they don't have to take responsibility? I'm so convinced that, and there's nothing else to indicate, that when people are in a position to have to look into the graces of their country, very many things have gone wrong in their lives, very often because of outside circumstances that people don't control or in some situation that people need to build up and help solve. I want to ask the senator because we both know things quite well, I don't know if I should be referring to him specifically in this relationship, but after the collapse we've had a huge community problem. The economic breakdown had widespread social impact; individuals suffered various setbacks and damages from the collapse. Does the senator agree that this is the doing of individuals who may have gone out of the collapse, responsible for the community problems that others are responsible for but are not supposed to shoulder?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u65	In such cases, it may be wise to avoid becoming overemphasis. I said in a talk earlier today that, of course, this variety of groups and reasons that lead to people getting into this situation. But one thing I allow myself to state is, at least, my experience is that I don't know anyone. I don't know any examples that people themselves wished to be in a position they were about to be or wanted to be there. I think there's a huge misunderstanding when people sometimes come and think the talks about not being on unemployment, and it's close to the lowest salary that people aren't just happy to be on them. You could probably say the same about financial support from rural society, that it has to be so tight that it just hurts in that situation. Is it compatible with the fact that someone wants to be there? I don't think so. But there are undoubtedly people who have landed there and some still there because of them. the shocks of an Icelandic society. Trying to work with and deal with these matters should increase our responsibilities, but of course it is of interest. A senator explains how this proportion has tended to be on a similar scale. It may be a reality that we have to face in our society, that we must always expect that such a problem will exist in some particular number or group of people that it needs to be handled completely specifically. What I'm most afraid of in this is trying to do what's supposed to be done here, to assess my employment ability, whether it's workable in part or not, because you know so many examples. No one wants to be in such a position, but it is easier said than done to get out of it when people have landed there and even stayed there for a long time. These problems are not always visible, and humans do not carry them on their faces. I know an example of a person who has been able to take a hard time and do interviews. [[The president calls.]] He may be able to cope with some workaholic evaluations, but the panic attacks at night and evening are out of control, allowing him to become paralyzed with fatigue and unworked in the morning. [[The president calls.]] It is not carried on by the person.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u66	Mr. President. During my first talk, my opposition to this bill was fine, and I want to move on a little bit, go on other paths. From time to time, it has been thought that the case of the individual youth was on its way to the dogs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u67	They always say.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u68	Now, if we think about the 68 generation that had got way too long and started listening to the Beatles and what I know, that generation got a lot more educated than her parents and has generally done well in the community. In the previous talk, just a few young people who did not have to be firm and need help for study and work were referred to. It is true that a growing group of young people find it difficult to get their feet on a job market. The government's reactions have prevented people over 25 years of age from getting access to higher schools and to shortening their unemployment benefits and also allowing them to produce a new unemployment reform system in the social service. I think that when we look at the young people who are in trouble, we should be careful not to make young ones the problem, but we should watch the community they live in and the workforce we want to encourage them to go out on. There are two more news in the media today, and there are probably more if you go back in time, but there are only two news news today, one about the worsening rate of cleaning-up persons in the board, women. They were laid off as government employees, and people were hired from private companies who pay less than the pay they earn, but the work is also greater. The second story is on the staff of Primara Air, who has been on the flight to the country. ASI protests a great deal about the rights of the hired people of that company and encourages the government to apply legal requirements on the employee's authority and on the rights and duties of foreign companies that will temporarily send employees to Iceland and their employees' remuneration - this is a long term on the law. A growing group of people work in black jobs because wages are not given and are missing rights, not even knowing their rights well enough, and these are the victims primarily young people and immigrants. Many people live in an illegal enterprise because they are not hired by the companies they work for and temporary recruitment is very common. Thus, employment security is much less than we should expect in a welfare society as we would like Iceland to be. At the same time, when there is a higher demand for people who are the poorest and for what relaxer positions, increased demands of some kind of imagination or syllination that people should harden themselves and do better, they stop needing help, instead of just meeting them and helping them, the richest individuals are getting richer. And what a surprise it is that when the 5% most of our money in society has 47.8%, we are above our head to discuss this! Then their shares are worth and their property are based on real estate values, so this group is even richer than this. At the same time, there is an increasing debate in foreign media about people trapped in a cycle of activities. I say, I encourage the government to collect income in the form of taxes where they are attending, and I encourage the government to ensure the rights of the pay people and to help those most in need of help to get it and to stop threatening people to cut off their livelihood.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u69	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by taking the final Crancer or something. paritaprevir The band of Ingaves Sigríður the Ingibjörg of Ingadóttir that we go to get the money where they can be found, but the government does not cancel much tax money and brought at the same time a burdensome amount of resources to the society's worst place in the world. It's been a little interesting to observe the discussion today, and it's obvious that there's a very contrary view when it comes to whether this bill is the right way to activate people, and there I have my doubts. The report or follow-up of the bill says in a summary of the results that it is an assessment of the Ministry of Health that if the bill is registered, this will have a positive effect on the interests of your community. It also points out from the Ministry of Economic Affairs that its review is merely a review of the effect of legalization on the financial resources of the state. That's why I want to ask you why. A senator: thinks so. A senator that has been adequately diagnosed what social impact this will have if financial support is taken from people by setting them in such effective conditions, what would that have to do with the social effects? [[The president calls.]] Is it enough just to refer to the economy of your rural society?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u70	Mr. President. No doubt they will soon be affected by some form of savings in their communities. Of course, the social cost of thus destroying the system will be much more long - term. Now I can't give a safe witness in foreign research, but I've studied this, and I've studied both in the United States and in the United Kingdom, it's shown that conditions like this and this kind of work for money don't make much difference to people. There are other methods to use. It will be a natural task for the welfare committee, or for us who are opposed to this on the welfare committee, to call for support and scientific evaluations on how the changes are involved. What I'm afraid of and should impress us who are against us in this matter is that this is just the first step. The next step will be for patients like micromasks. There's been talk of working conditions for years, and I'm more opposed and opposed. It is then said that this positive view should be viewed, and it is, of course, right to give to people who are chronic illness an opportunity to participate in society when they are able to do so. But to start tailoring the forwarding systems accordingly - this will eventually be some kind of requirement. And I'm really afraid of that and I'm feeling that there's every reason why we, who are opposed to these changes, will prepare to defend themselves and try to stop this from happening.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u71	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's answers. Yes, I think it's very important that we, on the welfare committee, get very thoroughly into what is known about the social consequences when people are so far off the edge that they have no forwards to live on. I agree with the concerns that have been presented in the matter. A senator, that people must start to support themselves through crime or other illegal activities, and that can hardly be the prospect of the future. I want to worry about what, too. A senator of whether this is just the first step, whether we will see even more extreme conditions that reach even larger groups. That's why I feel like I'm starting to end up at the wrong end. I'd like to try that idea on your head. A senator, how she meditated on replacing some kind of minimal amount that people could then improve with activity and thus encourage people to act. Would it be in her view that it would have a better social impact?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u72	Yes, I think there is a much more natural approach that guarantees a measure of progress that is vital for survival and then motivates people to exert themselves. I would like to state that in general people do not spend long time in financial support. The longest time has been due to the difficult circumstances here. Those who are long - term in such assistance face a very serious problem. Then it is our community service to help people get out of it or to soften it as much as possible and to enable people to have a better way of living than financial support, which is very low and of course not possible to survive a study for a very short time. It was a fine assessment in a Swedish newspaper of 120 thousand persons, a high proportion of people who have been unemployed for a long time, but never all the time, but who fall in and out of a labour market because of lack of security at a labour market, in the past ten years. We are to stop looking at those who receive either financial support or pension insurance, as some possible problem, and that is where people are to become hardened. We are to send the responsibility to where it belongs, to the job life, and to governments responsible for the legal and rights and security of the people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u73	Mr. President. Granted, there are many questions in the discussion about the issues we discuss here about changing the law on local social services. I noticed in a talk a lot. paritaprevir Þórunn Egilsdóttir said that the country's professional situation had improved and associated it with a problem because it would force a tight and conditional rule on the right to provide financial assistance of a community. In itself, I don't see a direct context of the difference. As noted also in the case of what? More than that, members of Congress should be able to control the group that does not depend on the oers offered, even three years of out - of - work, and will follow the financial assistance of a community. They may not be quite likely to be individuals, even though they are considered to be skilled, jumping to a number of types of jobs that have come into existence, mentioning in the construction industry, in the financial sector, or in God's eyes, where we can know that there is no need to keep more of such a group than they would expect them to do in such work. I also ask myself, " Why aren't we working on it at the highest level? ' Ministers to bring together a job campaign for just the people who are helping with the financial support of their comrades? [[Flmrh.Read the bill!]] Is it not something that really needs work? Looking forward to spending on the workforce of the last budget... [[Flmrh....not cut down, not cut in.]] It was not cut down, it was added, claimed to the highest minister. I don't agree with the highest. Minister of that subject. I've been on my travels in the Northwestern district hearing complaints about it, e.g. Because of the job situation in the West, there is a very small table available for the workforce at the labour oce branch. That's just the way it is. Minister. [[Up front.]] I think the highest. A minister should examine himself with these matters, not to the highest degree. Secretary of finance or anyone else. This situation is unacceptable, and it is not just a plan that looks like paper that these people's problems disappear but that they are working with them in a difficult place where they have to accept financial support more effectively than then punish them if they fail to qualify for some work that is available and that is, in fact, unable to do anything at all. I feel like the highest. A minister must answer this question when she delivers her talk below what will happen to that group, her dirty children, Eva, who are either temporarily taken from financial assistance or whose financial support was reduced by up to half of that group. What's the big deal? A minister of those people, is he to be taken care of? Is it not possible for these people to land in the health - care system, to take dangerous steps, to break drugs, and to become socialized, and to become even more difficult in the past? I'm very afraid of what was presented in a speech by the dog. A senator with previous social consequences in the group that falls between a ship and a dock. I am deeply concerned that they will be valuable to society. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u74	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for her speech. It's only a week away, and I'm assuming it is. A senator will then enter his district, the northwestern district. I'd like to mention a few societies that have conditions in their rules, despite the legal uncertainty that has been identified. It's Aclinville, it's Bolungarvík, and Sólvífjordur, the town town, the Valleyside, and Skordalshrepps, Eastern Lakes social services, Western Hunsar Council and Bavjarpur, Hagfjordur, Sólfellsville, Stykisholsville, Eyhal and Mikaholholtlape, Gnarfjördur and Helgafells Company, the Country Company, Skamifu and Akrahrepur, and here is the welfare services of the Year Assembly. We found that there was less conditions in the Western Arab Social Services department than there is a need to enter a workforce.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u75	Mr. President. I can't quite figure out which way to go. Social and housing minister is listed in this list. The problem is, and although various rural societies have made some conditions, we're talking about the political bitch and the prince of this case, we're talking about it. We're talking about individuals, people, families, children of the individual, we're talking about how we as a community want to make sure that people can support themselves and that our community is responsible for people's ability to do so, even though they are temporarily confronted with difficult situations. That should be a thought of the highest. Ministers to conform to local society rules, so it is, but not to coordinate the rule so that rural society is permitted according to this bill to throw people out of financial assistance and to judge them if they don't fit into the models they're moving on. It really works out. Me and the highest. A social minister simply fails to agree on these issues. I want it to be a social security network for everyone, because I don't want people to have to face it in their lives, if it's such a bad time to be put in that place after long-term unemployment, just have to go to the Children's Committee or the Church's Hospital.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u76	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator once again. With this bill, it is just a frame of how rural society is permitted - not related, not allowed - to set rules for financial support, a requirement for effective jobseekers. It is stated here that it is forbidden to require financial support other than the candidate, who is partially or completely evaluable, and it is forbidden to limit the assistance specifically intended for children according to local rule. As stated in the bill's report, cooperation between local community and employment agencies and the services of the Labour Organization will be provided by rural society which establishes such rules. So this is exactly what the senator calls to do, putting a frame around what local societies are allowed to do if they choose to set conditions for financial support. They are not obliged to do so, but if they choose, they are being framed so that this is in harmony with what we think is right. We can see that almost every group we've ever looked up and examined with such rules and have repeatedly pointed out that they would want a clearer frame of law about what to be like. It's being suggested in addition, as I indicated the reason. A senator is being made to make sure that financial support is available so that cooperation can work well.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u77	Mr. President. I think we're at the highest. Social and housing minister would agree that we want this support to exist, but we understand our responsibility as a community and the responsibility of the local community and therefore and what the legislator is to do to ensure that rural society cannot bring people out of financial assistance if it does not precisely fail to meet the requirements. You can have labour market resources and carry people with social services, psychological assistance, and various assistance to those in need without this penalty. My main concern is that I am not culminating in a punishmental form of assistance. V.E.G. A minister would be at hand to offer a bill that did not authorize local societies to throw out of financial assistance under special circumstances. It would be possible to call for these effective measures whether they were in education or what a workforce of a labour oce is required to cooperate with a rural society that was set up. This was illustrated earlier in the matter of why. Councilmen said that it could be done with positive merits, that assistance would be even more effective if people were on these effective measures. But there is also a need to offer free psychological assistance and such for the person. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u78	Mr. President. I thank the senator for his speech. Then came the highest. Minister here and read up a long list of local members that are not known whether they are going to be legal or not. The 1991 law strongly states that these are laws that give people rights, these are public rights, but, of course, those who qualify for services from their communities are expected regardless of what they may be. It seems odd to me that when rural communities are saving themselves money and moving on to the condition of financial support, and it is not clear whether they have a legal authority, that the gel exists and puts under the leaks and the laws changed, instead of going over what their rural communities are doing, and how they are solving financial problems at the least costs of those who have. I want to ask you why. A member of Congress on this subject, on the one hand, is willing to take more responsibility than the requirement presented in the bill of rural society. It says about the standards that the Minister is going to set according to the law bill: This directive aims to contribute to the greater agreement between rural society as well as to ensure that the reference height is regularly exceeded. Does the senator believe that it is necessary to demand the same from the communities as from those who must rely on financial support? Or is Davíð taking the responsibility as long as Golíat only gets the law changed for him?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u79	Mr. President. Yeah, it's a little different together, i.e. The punishment for the individual if he does not agree with the principle set out in terms of financial support and the criteria that the communities are obliged to consider and harmonize with each other. We know that there are different supports today between rural partners, and there is nothing wrong with considering how to synchronize them, and, of course, I want to see to it that they are uptight but not downward, i.e. that rural society is not harmonizing this assistance with negative requests. But you ask yourself, "What?" A woodman here, what would be done to the locals if they just kept moving on. And it's like the highest. The minister mentioned, the chairman of the Constitution, the right of the local community to decide in what way they required financial support, because they had very different conditions in these areas. Is there anything to say, then, that local societies can be cut off to have comparable criteria for supporting them? I feel like we're always coming back and forth to the same place. Do we agree that as a community, we do not let this group fall apart and do not take over? Or are we willing to get rid of these people, thinking that we're in better business and that people have reduced the financial index of society and community society? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u80	Mr. President, thank you. The senator's answer. There's a different view of the legal duties of a community. Many people believe that conditions are not really allowed. Today, rural communities are many in debt, have had to cut down and stay in trouble, financial problems, and have to make financial arrangements, and it is a real temptation to enter financial support. I believe it is the job of a minister to protect the interests of the public and to look at the situation from that point of view and to review what it is like to do it and whether it is really fatal. On the other hand, if rural communities are not able to cope with this, they need to check whether their communities are even too small for some, so that they cannot maintain legality and ensure that their inhabitants are equal to others, or if they are not the result, they have a temporary problem, that they need to find ways to make this easier. I know that Reykjavík is a socially heavier area, but many others, as well as a Smokeytown, are not involved in such expenses. So there is no equal between rural society and the social factor, the cost factor. I believe that from that point of view, we who are elected to the council to protect the public interest are required to consider the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u81	Mr. President. I thought it was a very good point. A senator came in with regard to the use of the Companion Fund in order to equalize the burden of financial expenses involved in being a responsible member of a community and shouldering its responsibilities in such projects with financial assistance. We all know that the tendency is that people who are in a difficult situation may be more likely to live in certain rural areas where more social services are served. Some rural communities have shaken a little from the group that needs assistance in social service. Why should they be well-rich and well - founded communities, which may not be with many of their own people who need social and financial assistance and, otherwise, do not pay in equal funds to balance this burden between rural society? Of course, I feel that this is the way it should be and that it should be. Social Affairs Minister to work rather than being tuning the regulations for local communities so that they will be more comfortable getting rid of ja, I would like to say unwanted people who make expenses. I would think the other was a much more reasonable approach and should be easy for the highest. Minister to receive our support in the government position, I suppose, to present such a bill that will balance them between the members of the rural community. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u82	A respectable president. I've been feeling something special how to get to the top. Ministers have held up their case in opposition to government officials. I've found her to be in a position of government and to be a negative defense to this matter. I have asked myself, " Who are the homes in this country already involved in this operation?'Because this term was marketed for elections, and it seems to cover just reducing the debt of some homes. It does not seem that the local community service should properly meet its subjects, not at least in my opinion, and the government's operations are so much the same as cutting unemployment insurance. So here in my first speech, I say again that I think it's kind of counterweight action here. The financial status of a community is to be relieved by joining the worst group of people. I don't understand, either, when the Minister's work is in position and if it needs to be put on the local administration laws, and the rule and all, it can't be fixed, either on her part or on her part, or on the Minister's part, instead of using such a negative defense for the bill. Two. on page 24. 4 is referred to as taking action for the people that have landed for some reason, I would like to say, on the performance of a unit -- I think that no one will go there because he wants so badly to do it - and I'm asking why this operation should not be used without condition, i.e. to assist the individual, allowing him to participate in the workforce, direct him to the correct channel, etc. Why must this be conditional? Does the social Ministry have such little faith in the concerned that she believes that this will be done only by means of forced labor? Children and young people were discussed earlier, and I mentioned that social security numbers are important in this context. When people who lose their jobs are born, they can't work even if they want to work. In the end, these people may have to tell themselves, as was said of them back in the day, and look for that help but want to win. They don't want to be in this position, but they don't have a choice because they now hire many companies out of Social Security. Among other things, young people are being violated and paid the same amount of pay. We talked about it quite a bit because it came up on the table this summer. In these days, a young man was expressing himself at Visi, reminding me, and it showed that when he was about to become a confidant, he was going to get overtime paid, etc. So there are a lot of things that write young people, and older ones, too, about how you should be, how you should be, and how you should behave, and I don't feel we should encourage them by law. I would very briefly like to come to the inebriate of children and quote from spring to spring the Children's report, or Save the Children's. It speaks of many children living in unacceptable circumstances as to housing and housing costs being a very high percentage of less income types. Incomes, both on pay and on social benefits, are the main factors in children's poor health. Injustice is not only one cause of poverty but also a result. Children raised in poverty are more likely to live in poverty as adults, with poverty spread from generation to generation. On page 18. 6 It is said that the terms and conditions of children, such as leisure or school meals, are prohibited. I'd appreciate it if that's the way it is and if the Minister can't agree with it, when she delivers her final talk, that this is one of the things to be considered. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u83	President. I appreciate this discussion, I think it's very important; I'm really thinking about it, I'm really worried. I wanted to ask you what. At the same time, a senator thanks her for the terrible solution to the highest degree. A welfare minister has offered: What will happen to those who have the wrong social security number if they do not get a job and are forced to work out of employment that is not at all suitable for them? What happens to these people? And how can we help? Is a complete evaluation of how you can prevent a person from landing between a system cluster and crushing in between, or disappearing into, some deep depth? Clearly, you do not solve long - term problems by forcing people into solutions that they may not be suitable for. I am convinced that those who have been on unemployment for a long time and who have had to report to the countryside want to work. While working on unemployment, they need a very effective job search, but for some reason they have not been hired. It's not because they don't want a job. They don't want a job. I'm going to do a little more detailed research on some odd options that have been designed by the Labour Office to treat people with a false social security number in a second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u84	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. This is exactly what we have discussed and have discussed in this discussion, what will happen to these people. When employment insurance was reduced in the budget, it was as if the government thought those people were drenched up who lost their forwards. Some of these people move to the countryside, but some cannot imagine searching at their local companions. Clearly, these people are not going to disappear. It's expected, I believe, that, people with disability, and people who are involved in rehabilitation, etc.; there are, of course, so many other things that and not necessarily necessarily, when someone is assigned to take some action, they are suitable for them. The bill speaks of finding a channel without searching. But because this too has been quoted from Hafnarfjörður, some of the people there found relief work by town. Why could the town not offer them jobs without condition, what caused them to do so? There are many ways we can help. The options listed here can be absolutely preventive in order to prevent people from getting trapped in this system rather than binding them to such negative conditions. I think it's very simple to do this. Of course, none of us have anything to do with this work rather than in others, I think it's perfectly clear. It's only natural for people to realize right away that they'll never get 100% results from this type of operation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u85	President. It seems to me that there's no ghosts in the system. I know a large group of ghosts in the system, like refugees, and now they're creating another group of ghosts in the system. It grieves me forever that this sort of thing is coming from this certain minister and that the Supreme Minister. Minister will defend this act. I didn't hear anything. The minister protests when the decision was suddenly made to restrict people's right to unemployment gains by six months at ten days' notice. I wanted to ask you what. A senator whether she knows that an assessment is made of what will happen to all of these parties. It had already been warned, as soon as unemployment rates went up so high, because this would create a persistent problem for long - standing people. It's very difficult to get back into the job market. How are these people being helped? Is it to starve them to obedience, as a means of success? Or would it be closer to trying to take a milder approach, open your arms, and help those who really need it? I know too many stories in order to overlook the fact that those who are suffering from severe poverty have the least reason to look forward to even greater uncertainty, more child rearing, and even more hunger.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u86	A respectable president. I was hoping for the highest. The social and housing minister took a role model and opened this case wide open on his own initiative so that the committee would get it for lunch. When she arrives in her second speech, I still have hope that she will suggest that the bill be examined with an open mind. I think the analysis is like that of the sources that have already been used for this strategy, i.e. Any group who did not accept employment or anything like that - some disappeared, they are told. I don't doubt that there are probably some in the system that don't belong and in other systems. That's why I'm saying this never solves 100% of the problems. Is it okay to set up laws based on resources tried by one or two societies for a very short period of time? That's just what you can ask yourself. That's how it looks to you, like a dog. A senator said that people are being starving for obedience. I think that state and rural society are obliged to unite in inviting those involved and are the most vulnerable among the resources listed here, in terms of this impairment. I think it needs to be done. There is no problem with the law, so rural society treats its subjects in a similar amount of reference. I agree with what was said earlier that it should lead to increases, not to decrease. I can't see that people are supposed to survive here at 50 to 60 thousand bucks. per month. [[The president calls.]] I don't think it's incorrigible. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u87	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. Law No. 40/1991, which is being transformed by this bill, was very successful, and it is of great benefit to read the report by means of that bill. As I have said in this context several times, when these laws were made, there was a great deal of joy and a turning point. It was then viewed as a universal right to enjoy social services and to help people to survive, face people where they were stable and insure all human dignity. It was changing the environment so that it was the right of each person, and as a community, it was obliged to ensure that people would maintain their respect, that poor people could not be affected. Iceland's Social Management Association believes that to ensure social security for financial support it is necessary to specify something of minimal importance, e.g. For the sake of social security. The community counselor knows and has been working on it, and he knows that it needs to be stopped to ensure that people's rights are rights. Social management is concerned that some local authorities may lack social intuition, and in smaller rural areas, individuals may find it harder to get help, and they often need to flee from the local community. Now I ask the senator who comes from a less rural society than Reykjavík: Does she think this law will be used in a different way, and it may be more difficult for people in my communities to get involved in estimates and conditions, that it might become harder? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u88	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this question. I'm gonna start where she ended. Granted, many rural communities, whether in child - welfare or in social services, have met together for a number of services to expand. This does not change, however, that when you live in a community of 2,000 people and may take your neighboring society with you, which will be some 4,000 people, it is fitting to say that everyone knows everyone. We know these discussions elsewhere, not only in connection with social services or such. We know her from school, as follows: This is because his father was like this or gay. It may be predetermined that a person should be able to win, and those whose case might come into that position. True, this can be difficult. I have previously quoted a total of two women. One is a slightly bigger group than the other one from a small one. The one who was in the small community couldn't imagine asking for community assistance from town, as she said, she couldn't think of it, she thought it was so humiliating. It may be similar with a cleaning lady who was dumped - she had worked very long in the same place. It's also the friendly one. What can we do? Is there any way that these people can be helped with something other than that they have to tell themselves about the town if they are in some particular age group that has somehow lost their job and that they continue to support them for work without having to limit their social assistance? Of course, it is very unusual that long ago the standard for living would be what the Ministry of Health puts in such a way that people could have a chance to survive. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u89	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer. It is even more difficult in my community to approach the local community. No one is happy and wants financial help. That's a tough step. They are followed by shocks, problems, and difficulties. All of us are designed to maintain human dignity, and we do not want to be dependent on others. Of course, we live in a community, and we want to take responsibility for one another, but unlike what this bill does, there is a group of people who are just wasting away because they don't have anything else to do with them, people don't want to be in this situation. I think we're going back to the old times. It's hard enough today, but we're adding to the perimeter of those who need the help of the team. I have lived in less rural society than Reykjavík, and I know that these people are familiar with one another, so that although I have been quoting the numbers of the capital area and where most of them are, we are obliged to think about all of us and consider how to protect people and their freedoms, as far as we can do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-04-63.u90	A respectable president. It's true, as well as I know it from my job before I came into this council to have to talk to young people who were 23 years old - probably worth 25 years old and therefore may not be able to continue to school that he wasn't finished with - single parents behind, single mothers in one case I remember, really had nothing and nothing but the house that she belongs at home with the debt on which it belongs. For a considerable period of time, her child has been in a variety of lifestyles, grows up, recovers, and decides to go to school, and tries to work on something, but he lacks money to get out of it. However, this low standard is expressed and because the person lives at home with a parent who has some ignominious low income, the person was denied. After a little while, the fix was achieved, but there were very difficult steps for this young man. But there are probably thousands of these examples, thousands of these, thousands of such cases that we live in. When we begin to draw together all the things the government has done to reduce the survival of these people to improved lives, limit unemployment insurance, prevent education, aims for anything they may not be able to do, some definitely have the ability to manage and do it, but we always have some group that don't fit into this. It is one action after another, and when it all counts, we do not have a good thing in our arms.
