ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-03-146.u1	Mr. President. The damage to the tax stable tax system is a relatively simple procedure in the taxological sense. It is a single product of 39% property tax on all possessions that will be taken in relation to their property status at the end of this year. In a legal sense, the logic or justification of the tax is the problem. It's my opinion that it's well done with the bill, and the tax is fully justified, and the constitution's requirements are met. The changes made by the Economic and Business Committee are for improvement, especially in strengthening the progress in handling the funds the tax may provide, including cross-political cooperation. However, the matter in itself is primarily theoretical, for there is little chance of paying this tax, since there seems to be some sort of informal agreement between the Governments of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunollson and key requirements in large banks. It is thus not likely that this way will bring in a wealth of money.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-03-146.u2	A respectable president. The basic premise of such a high holding tax, of 39%, is that it can be based on justification grounds. After a discussion in the Committee, I believe they are available and that the taxprofen is thus determined according to the financial problems facing the national market. The most important part that will follow is to ensure that the funds so that they do not cause economic instability and will not contribute to political instability by allowing humans to have opportunities for promise levels and irresponsibility in the process of election. It is up to all of us to uphold the political solidarity established on the committee that we are all going to stand firm against that temptation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-03-146.u3	A respectable president. I'd like to talk at the same time about this bill and the next one we vote on, about forced contracts. These are good things in our appreciation for the future. This is a reasonable approach to the problem. The work of the committee has been good. It's very important that you're quite clear that these are not income harvest products. The bill that we vote for right now and the next are prime radios to try to cross a severe cut in order to eliminate the threat of public stability and standard of living by getting money that is out of control. It's got to work. It's too early to celebrate, it's about to start now. If this works well, I'd like to predict that there will be a familiar reality in which we have to face the fact that we have too little currency to handle capital transportation, to handle the freedom in capital transport and to deal with the ups and levels of goodness. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I further encourage us to discuss a future policy in the currency of the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-03-146.u4	President. The Piras support this case, although it has to be said here that because of the European Parliament's stability contracts, there has been quite a tie in the hands of the council. The Prime Minister made an agreement with the demands before this happened to the council. I'd also like to take it for a second. paritaprevir In this regard, Páll Árnason's statement about strengthening the book of the Law and the decrees of the committees to avoid becoming a cause for moral hardship is made available to these funds, if any, but they will be under the oversight of the council, even if they remain bound in the bank account of the province. It is also very important to keep this to the point that it is not a means to raise money but a means of stability for the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-03-146.u5	V.E.G. President. We're paying a vote on a bill to set up a stable tax. This is one of the prime signals, which are part of a comprehensive program for finally starting a capital crisis. We'll vote for the rest later. Here, the most important focus is the chemical goals being set aside for stability in the economy, with the objective of the public and thus protecting economic well - being. It is suggested that a single-change tax be registered to meet this objective. If so, how important it is that the funds gained in the Kingdom will be made only in accordance with these goals! In order to further ensure this, the bill aims to agree with Iceland's National Bank on Impact Assessment and in the budget, the proposed management and provision of funds should be introduced. Then, in changing proposals with the bill, they will be introduced to an economic and business committee at an initial level of budget making. [[The president calls.]] The objective and provision of this legal agency was a great deal of solidarity. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-03-146.u6	V.E.G. President. I support the stable tax, but, of course, I think it's too low, and I'll join the IDefence and various fortune-telling economists like Lilja Mósesdóttir. I think the stable tax should contribute to stability and should also be a raise for the state's funds to offset the tremendous damage to the financial community. It's perfectly normal that this is also a income raise. I will support this bill. It's different. I don't support it. I vote against it. There are many challenges, some of which are hidden, and not on the table. I miss the fact that some of the people who were properly critical of the confidentiality and indiscriminate in the Icesave deal at the time are going to offer this kind of effort to the General Assembly. It's supposed to be through here in ten days of an opaque bill that the Senate understands very limited. In addition, Iceland's Secret Bank is to be entrusted with the value of taxation authority. He is instructed to inform the council business committee, but the taxation authority is cast out. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This is what the council is about to offer. [[The president calls.]] I'm gonna say no to this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-03-146.u7	Mr. President. When introduced, I immediately described the support of the stable tax, which was based on ideologies that had been examined and presented in the past government. However, I and everyone else were surprised when, after the famed presentation in Hörp, it was also negotiated a special bypass route, enabling them to escape the project with 400 billion less money in the state's funds. I believe that this is the course of uncertainty. I believe Iceland's interests are safe with the stable tax. Like I said, I'm here for him. However, I would like to make it very clear that, based on financial stability, both of these routes go up, but the first one, i.e. The stable tax, it's safer for Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-03-146.u8	A respectable president. This is a vote for two issues that should lead to stability in the balance of payment. A key factor in future economic developments, the stability of the currency and the stability of prices is balance. Whatever route you take, you will have similar results. It may be that someone may feel that there is a big difference between the crowns in this matter, but hopefully it will lead to treaties that are as disagreeable with both parties, as it were, because these are battles as wars and there is no one to win a war. There is a situation, and then there is the war to be won. In this matter, it is our job to work hard when these contracts or taxation is done. I support this bill, and I think a financial and business committee has worked hard on it, and I appreciate your cooperation. A respectable president. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-03-146.u9	A respectable president. What a joy it is to see members of all classes taking this issue, and some even objectively, others not so objectively, that is, of course, not the answer to the claims that the government has failed to negotiate with anyone in this regard! Simply put, there is a need to accept taxation and, if they want to avoid the taxation, to meet conditions that are much more strict than any other conditions that have already existed for those who are in need. Hv. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson seems to have simply fallen asleep at the meeting if it completely missed him, the presentation under stability conditions. A respectable president. The key point, though, is that this is the Council's approval of the way to solve the greatest economic problem the nation has faced in the past few years, and that is a great cause of joy. Not only is it a cause for rejoicing here in Iceland but this has attracted attention in many lands, in a very direct way, to solve a case that seemed insoluble to many for the last election. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-03-146.u10	A respectable president. I'm celebrating this case, as most people do, but I just want to introduce the individual senators' comments that it may somehow be read in the reviews of the InDefence Group, there's a lot of criticism. I'd like to read here from a blog entry from one of the U.S. pilots. It says: ▪ The aim of this review was to promote a controversial discussion about whether solutions can be put to a lower risk and to try to reach a more efficient conclusion for the nation in one of its most important interests. So it goes on, with references to comments as quickly as possible. Councilman: He then misunderstands IDefence's comments, not about how much tax rate he is, but about his influence on payment level but so falsely states that InDefence accepts his criticism. I'm sorry, but individual media have taken this up, but I hope it's corrected here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-03-146.u11	Mr. President. There's one thing I missed in this discussion. All the leaders of the classes except one person that I know spoke very clearly about being tempted to use this money to other extents of stability and not tempted to use this money that slips into the Marine Bank, if this is the way, if you go to the tax. All the heads of the other classes and the natural rush. The head of the Economic and Business Committee, Frosti Sigurjónsson, has been very clear in this regard. This is an important point because if politicians are tempted to use this money for anything other than what is required in the prime projection, that means that our legal standing is gone out the window. Therefore, it is important that all political leaders be clear about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-03-146.u12	Mr. President. I'd like to start now at 2nd. to thank the Committee for a job well done, for solidarity here at the council for the progress of the case. It is true that it was strongly urged to request that this large issue be passed through a committee job and that three discussions be completed in a short period of time. This has been a great discussion of the provision of the funds that come to appear either in the form of tax payment or stability, but it is clear according to prime figures of this issue that it is necessary for them to reduce the debt of state funds and to prevent this impact. There are no deals with one or no one behind the scenes. This is simply a clear case, and there will continue to be a payback on the way of fixed-up contracts. If they can't be met, the tax falls at the end of this year on that particular broil. The key point is that here is a comprehensive plan on how to solve the problem. [[The president calls.]] And it is very important for the Icelandic people to feel the solidarity here at the council on methodology to achieve that goal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-03-146.u13	Mr. President. In fact, this is primarily about technical change, i.e. to better determine that the bill will take care of any material or smell the treatment of tax-related persons. Still, this change is important, and it plays a role in the change made on 2 st. in the 2nd count change of the box.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-03-146.u14	A respectable president. As a result of this change, we are more confident about how this money will be handled. And we add the very important conditions that if the secretary of finance intends to make a suggestion to use this financial bill, he must first submit it to a financial and business committee. In other words, these funds cannot be used in the handling of budgets here at the council. The budget cannot be closed. This must be made in a financial bill on the part of the secretary of finance before a financial bill is submitted. He can't then go to the Economic and Business Committee, he needs to go to her before he gets ready for the budget and he needs to give them a review from Iceland's National Bank on how this works. By doing this, we are ensuring a few months of work that must always take place before a suggestion that these funds are used. [[The president calls.]] It is very important that this should be true here, this is a fundamental precept for the fact that the case can be supported in the form it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-03-146.u15	Mr. President. The box that has arrived in this paragraph, on the approval of the change in budget management, does not matter whether they come in a stable tax or stable, as this article is referred to in the bill, namely that the arrangements of the budget should initially be consistent with economic and financial stability goals. Secondly, the management of the budgets in financial and financial stability should be made clear, if possible, after consultation with Iceland's Secret Bank on its impact on economic and economic stability as agreed with the Economic and Business Committee. Along with what's going on in legal explanations at the Committee of the Economic and Business Committee, I think that this is being prepared as safely as possible, and then the case will be handled by the politicians in the hands of this process and hopefully they'll pass the test.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-03-146.u16	A respectable president. We now vote for multiple changes in the terms of forced contracts in order to pay for a company's payment of stability, not the payment of a stable tax. There is a difference between that methodology. Instead of the tax that would be laid on and would go into a state fund somewhere in the range of 6,80,800 billion, it is a contribution from the swelling farms to some place just over 300 billion, according to this method, and then additional contributions, which includes the extension of the currency bar to the bank and the remunerations already given to the embers and so on. In other words, there is a great deal of material difference between the treasures of the state to solve the problem between these two paths. We will be doing this vote to trust in what is suggested by the government to ensure that these agreements are adequate and guaranteed in a reasonable way by the nation's interests. [[The president calls.]] We will vote with this, but I would say this in advance.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-03-146.u17	Mr. President. Unfortunately, uncertainty is much greater when considering these factors, and it is unfortunate that the so - called stability criteria should not be official or more information about them and more transparency might be available. There is all evidence to suggest that a large, far more efficient budget will be achieved, this way that there could be a difference of 250 to less than 400 billion dollars. And much less. Still, it is difficult to compare these paths, and in reality, the bills are part of a single group that plays together in various ways, a selective way, and this strengthens the action. There seems to be some sort of informal agreement with the key requirements, in any way they view it as a consideration in the foreign media, and most likely the solution on these terms. Then, of course, we must hope that the stability conditions will live up to their names, that they will prove to be sufficient to secure stability around the operation, and that the rest will be left behind even if the state's funds get much worse because of the discounts that the demands obviously get out of this way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-03-146.u18	A respectable president. First, I want to celebrate the approval of the stable tax bill by nearly all votes. When it comes to this second standard for stability, it is very important to keep it in mind here that, when and if you are going to negotiate a steady-state gain, nothing will be done on the national currency reserve or standard of living, and it should also be the first thing to go through the Navy, so through the minister of finance and the government, and so on here it is a transnational agreement that it should go through the Economic and Business Committee. In doing so, the council is separating themselves with the right to monitor this matter at any stage because this way is both selective and temporary. If any of the three companies, the Federal Committee, the Government, the Secretary of Economic and Business Affairs, appreciate that in some way the quality of life or currency stores are going to go on the stable tax route and pay 39%. It is important that you do this and be documented.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-03-146.u19	V.E.G. President. Here we vote on the second bill in this great and great language, where national interest is very important that a broad political accord would arise here at the General on these two issues. I supported the case earlier, and I support this case as it is, but I want to say this in advance, there's a big difference between the two routes that are going on. If the route has gone which we're paying here votes for right now, i.e. stability, by the way, it seems to me that the Supreme Government. The prime minister of the Sigmunds of Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, has performed the greatest debt correction of Iceland's history. At that time, the world's reputation for homes in the country became small. If this route is taken, a respectable president, then it means that about 400 billion less will come into a state fund for this process, on account of the contracts published on the Home Office of the Ministry just after the meeting ended in Harpa, the summit with all the corneas in it. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] This is a correction for the government of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunugsson to the demands of the fallen banks. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-03-146.u20	Mr. President. This matter, as agreed on here, is evidence that the government and now the council want to pay for certain legal contracts. This issue is not in itself a matter of stability, but it has been open since a capital capitalist was placed here in 2009 to provide enforcation. The tax bill gives an answer to the conditions that must be met in order to receive an exception. They need to balance the individual broils. Those who speak in this discussion, such as why. paritaprevir Kristján Möller believes that the state is here to have a income - harvest operation, about which it should be done. We're answering with the initials we're paying for today that we're solving the payment problem, we're not in the income raise operation. And those who take the approach here during the discussion to compare their income, just a direct income to a government fund, from the tax and the stability process, just on some other journey, and they just go their way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-03-146.u21	A respectable president. I recommend a proposal for a hearing of approval for the continuation of General Assembly meetings according to Article 1. Section 3. The constitution. The suggestion is as follows: ▪ The General concludes to agree that meetings will be postponed from July 3, 2015 or later, if necessary, until September 8, 2015. The motion is self-explanatory.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-03-146.u22	Mr. President. It's not time to postpone this council. There's a case, a new mackerel bill, submitted two days ago. It was not the art that was negotiated regarding the end of the council. That bill needs a lot more discussion, so it's really not time if people are going to try to finish it today, which they will, of course, do. Still, it is not time for us to do so, and as a result, it is not time for us to postpone Generalis meetings at the present time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-03-146.u23	A respectable president. And amongst us left greens, there are conflicting opinions about construction on Backcoat. Like many of my partners in the left green, I believe that the structure of a wide variety of employment in any country does not require the production of contaminated and energy - consuming industry. President. I wouldn't have supported the original construction bill on back-up and I won't support the bill that's being discussed here. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-03-146.u24	Mr. President. It seems that they are being fooled by the lesser part of this matter because there is a danger - perhaps nothing necessarily likely or what? - but there's a chance that with this bill it's been building up the legal status of those who have been catching a mackerel to get him assigned as a greeting instead of taking him anywhere else as part of the market. We are faced with the fact that next year we will most likely receive a resource directive in a constitution. They're working on a full reexamination, the way we're going to handle the future dinner system, and the population will be able to have more access to all these matters when they themselves are able to bring matters to themselves on national terms, such as this matter of how to plan the fishing resources by law. That was the collection of signatures, with 51 of yours. a person said that if it was to be taken in fishing for the Allied Resource by law for a longer period than one year, the President would deny it so that the nation would receive the case. This was because in the first mackerel bill, which was put forward now on the last possible day to bring up a Senate case, April 1, otherwise the distribution of the mackerel would have been valid for six years and one year into the future. Then a collection of signatures was set out for a national fee. Then a change was proposed because those who produced the bill saw that they did not achieve it. Then an adjustment was proposed to that bill, actually in the form of a bill, it was a bill that was put in as just a change in motion. Still, it was refused. It was clear that it had a catch mark for the mackerel, i.e. provide a catch section in macroil that would have meant it was longer than one year. Yet, if what can be caught every year for one year, it is an arrangement that takes longer than one year to get that share back to the State. And it is a provision of the law on the fishing resource for longer than one year. They saw that they could not go on with that game, and they saw that there was a concordat in the memory of stopping such things, because the people want these matters to be brought to them, and presenting a new bill in that suit or other costume would have meant that the people would not have time to obtain a legal case about the preparation of the fish industry. Now, however, the preparation of the fish resource is being done by law, and it may be possible to support the legal status of those who want the mackerel in the future. And this is done in two days here at the council. What am I talking about? Yeah, if we go to 2. The bill says in the B-part: To add another paragraph, as follows: A fishing room is permitted, for the distribution of sectoral shares, according to the law of these, 5th or 6th pars. track No. 151/1996 or other laws, allowing provision for the reference of Achievement and other rights related to hunting between seaships, partly or completely, in the case of a change in ship. It is the requirement that both ships' approval be agreed by the owners for the transfer if the ship is not owned by the same ship. Now I've talked it over with even. The experienced senators here, some of the most experienced members of the council, say that this could strengthen the rights of the individual because these are moving rights, they're handing over rights, the basic experience that will be decided on, the credit department, so it's a rare thing. There's a possibility that this means they have a stronger demand for the mackerels in their possession, to get a harvest share, it's a rare experience. I was first pointed out from town, and then I've spoken to members of the council here, and it's a rare experience. This is done in two days. It is also clear that most members of this hall have no idea of this and had no idea. I've talked to a lot of people, and they just said, "What, is this? Yeah, okay. They didn't know anything about this. This is what happens when things are taken care of so quickly through the council. If they're going to agree with this, that means they're taking the right of the people of the land because the people can't start the collection in two days. The rights are being taken from the people of the land, a democratic right they've been creating in recent years, to initiate a collection of signatures, and to pressure the president to get the case to himself. In this rapid treatment, we are taking this right of the people of the land in a case in terms of the provision of the fish family of the resource and can have exemplary value in the future. [[Up front.]] That's not what I'm saying. A senator, on the other hand, this is a possibility. This is what happens when things are done at this rate. I just wanted to make myself clear. I've been trying the last few days to talk to men about this and try to get this postponed, or to continue with the council or Congress later in the summer, so that it can be won properly, that the case can be handled properly, that it has not worked out, so it's the situation. Now, the people will observe who will vote for this, who will support the case and who will oppose it. If it turns out that way, as experienced senators have told me, this will strengthen the macrotic system as we know it, if it happens in the future, then you can be sure that I will alert the people of the country in time. If we are resolved and looking for the future, I think that what we need is to keep a national meeting, and I ask those who are interested in contact with me, we need a national meeting on how to organize the resource in the law, a national meeting as held in 2009 for the values of the country and the future vision and how the people wanted to see the future in Iceland, and the values that should be based on a constitution and what to live on a constitution like 2010. If people are interested in sitting down and seeing how much time, money, and effort it takes to attend such meetings, I am eager to sit down with such people who might help me examine this subject. It takes little time to consider what is needed to have such a national meeting, and then the rest could be considered.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-03-146.u25	Mr. President. I just want to discuss the subject of the bill for law, which is presented to the greater part of the employment committee, about the change in fish control laws. The bill goes on several factors, such as the implementation of a number of preliminary regulations and the application of macrogol, as discussed here. We in the lesser part are not transporters in this case. We thought the other part should be responsible. In fact, it would have been the highest. Ministers should present this matter, but we know that there have been some developments in the discussion of the macrollar bill, which was very controversial and that it was gained to postpone it until the fall to take place with the work ahead of revising the laws on the control of fish fishing. In our memory, we also had a disagreement that such cases as fishing costs would be placed in salt for a very long time and all the energy would have been involved in this controversial macrollar bill. In the 3rd. is a law that leads to further forwarding one of the so - called Bikkavíkjords. The evidence was presented that the financial and credit issues of that company are being worked, but we at the Council have extended this provisional principle quite often. That's it. It's extended, talking about deadlines until September 1st, 2016. To me, it is absolutely clear that the law cannot be extended once more. This has to mean, as it says, that this is the final deadline. This turns to the possibility that the person has come up with a so-called quota, i.e. share in the hook-and-reach system. In Comb 4. is the matter of reason. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson has spoken here. I don't think there's any reason to worry about what it says. It suggests that 2 thousand main trains of macroil are available to the little boats in the hook-up system. [[Up front.]] We know that the discussion was that way when it was spoken of sharing this large mackerel bill with the resulting result of putting it into the current hosting system, with the extendency and all its components, and bringing it to those people who had experience and standards of tens of billions. The reason for this discussion was that the small boats could not be set for 5.3%, i.e. in the so - called small pot, a mackerel could not be removed from that part of the fishing system unless a mackerel was first eaten and that pot was given 5.3% for provision. We were put against a wall, as if these two had to go together. I think it clearly shows that some X amount of macroil can be determined to be factored, as in this case, the small pot, i.e. This share of total resources, 5.3%, by legally establishing and strengthening it in the bill. As it is now available, it is legal to suggest that these 2 thousand trains of macroil go to these measures in the part of a hook - bearing boat, and other boats can use it by renting from that pot. I find this to be the point where other species that come into our jurisdiction in a different way than in a section or by saying goodbye. They admit that you can change this quota system. Of course, it is the lawgiver who has to say first and last how he wants to plan fish for the future, but it needs to be corrected. There's little evidence there that it can be done. That's why I'm really happy about it. There is now, away from what amount this is to or from, there can be debated about it. There's 2,000 trains, and I think it's good. Of course, it's very bad, like the highest. In the summer, a minister decided by regulations to share small boats and close the system. That's critical. I believe there must be any way to get out of there because it's unacceptable. That's what I wanted to say on these matters. There's also been a lower rent on the herb and mackerel to those who have access to this pot of 16 k. of 8 K. That should have been more convincing. I think there's a little bit of a finger going on there. The last time we were discussing this, last year, I remember there was something about 20 bucks. which was suggested. On the job board, we made it a goal to avoid getting high prices for the catch from the sea, so it would be normal to reduce it to 16 k. Now the finger's put on, and it's down to 8 bucks. I think there has to be a little bit more logical, so there's a certain proportion of resources up from the sea that's moving. I'm not saying that this number, 8 K, is necessarily stupid, but it's kind of like they put their finger in the air and put it on some random number. Although I'm not on this bill any more than the rest of the work board, I don't think it's such a matter that there's no need to worry about the future that we can't do what the lawgiver decides on a new kind of decision in our jurisdiction, such as the mackerel, or make over head changes in the current cooling system. I'm expecting nothing else, but I can even support this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-03-146.u26	A respectable president. It's a pleasure to hear that. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, an agent of the left green on a professional committee and vice president there, is counting on to support operations for small boats. There's a big misunderstanding in my opinion that came out of a lawsuit. paritaprevir Jón Þór, son of Ólafsson, that there was some new mackerel bill here, of course not at all. It is so that the measures made in macroil for the current fishing year were distributed to 2,000 tons of less, i.e. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. A minister left 2,000 tons to increase the potential of small boats to catch. These tons will be a provision from the Ministry and there they can buy remunerations for a fair contribution. This is especially true for those who do not have enough money to go to the fishing grounds after they were assigned to fish, that they can add, and thus go into lucrative fishing. It is also a way for those who have not practiced mackerel fishing before to enter this system and hunt. Of course, all of this is done for them, this system, to increase the resources that were about 7,000 tons last year to 9,000 tons. Then it has been observed in the discussion that the so - called pot industry, or 5.3 percent, that between 8,000 and 9,000 tons per year, will be set aside at least 1 kg (U.S.). A good part, even in all, for this system in the future. That means that in the macrol for the miniboat system, there may be 10,000-12,000 tons and I to the extreme, at least as the situation is today, that it comes more than what that fleet can handle, although he may be able to cope with something more in the future. We've been trying to explain this to you before. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson in recent days, who joined us in this discussion. A professional health committee. An agent of Pirata has not been at the conference for employment committees to review this case, and I claim that there is a complete misunderstanding, but we have not been able to make it. A senator's understanding of the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-03-146.u27	Mr. President. I have been very diligent when it comes to the mackerel case because it is the case that the people of the country want to come to and begin a collection of signatures. Pirata's base policy is my authority. It goes on to protect civil rights on the other hand and democracies in the form of words: Each person has the right to make decisions that concern them. Citizens rightly consider the resources to be their concern. They rightly want to make decisions as to how it should be made. That's why I've been following up on the pro board. I have to choose and refuse. I followed the case on the stability taxes and emergency contracts. It is a big, important matter that needed to be followed and maintained. We were able to enact the basic principles that ensured that it would be harder to fall into the temptation problem of using this money in an irresponsible way. If money is spent in such a way that it contributes to instability, the country's rights will be seriously damaged, for that will result in a loss of rights. It was important. This is how I conduct my job at the council and have followed this mackerel language and the factors of exactly what are involved and are still doing now when this new macrollar bill is released in two days and in a way that the people of the country cannot have a democratic approach to it as they have called. That's the explanation, if any. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson hasn't figured it out yet.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-03-146.u28	A respectable president. I give very little for the senator's comments on these matters. All of us agree with this and that the Constitution committee is being prepared to make a constitution in which a certain section of the nation and a certain section of members of the council will be allowed to refer matters to national terms in a well - established process that will be created around it. We're not there yet. That's why it's completely untimely. Total resources clearance, i.e. We're hunting Iceland, we're plus/minus 1.5 million tons, can go down to 1,200 thousand tons, and up to 1,700,400,000 tons. We're talking about 2,000 tons of mackerel, all this weather is about, for the little boats. It's being helped by the system to meet their wishes for increased resources. I'm telling you, there's a huge misunderstanding about the senator... that the people want to bring to national terms... whether they're going to give 2 thousand extratons of total plus/minus 1.5 million tons. If that's the goal of national pay, there's no harmony in the pirata lawsuit here that they're taking matters so quickly through the council that they don't have that opportunity. Piratars make no comment, and they don't mention it in this discussion when giving some 1,400 million more of the energy - efficient projects to do with Bakka. It can be rolled through here with 10:2 votes without saying that it needs to be referred to national requirements. If we were going to work for this, it would be an impossibility to work here. In my opinion, it's a big hit-and-run desert by a dog. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-03-146.u29	Mr. President. Of course, the Senator knows well that I'm not talking about paying a national bill for 2 thousand tons instead of 800. This is about whether there is a possibility that the mackerel is being attached or moved into the quota system in some way, making it easier, and strengthening the status of those who eventually want to move it into the standard terminal. The population does not want their resources to be removed by law for a longer period than one year. If they're moving this into the dinner system, they're doing it. That's what it's all about. Under it, 51 thousand of Icelanders signed. We may be going against it by agreeing on this. This is not the largest case in the world, but this may mean that we lose the opportunity to eliminate the macroils in a way that has not been done. The people of the land are not given the opportunity to come to that decision. That's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-03-146.u30	V.E.G. President. To explain again my position on this small bill delivered by the greater part of the employment committee, I refer to 1st. about yesterday's case, since I explained why we're not transporters to this proposal. In short, the bill goes on to see in Article 1. is being strengthened by sources and refinements in cost-explanatory prices to 5.3% of the pot. We saw that on this fishing year, there was a certain amount that could not be offered, and we want to replace other species with better use of the measures made by these 5.3%. Two. The bill is changing that if a ship is changed, the ship can be sold on its own without permission. An example of a ship that is now being sold that has a fishing experience in the mackerel industry. Of course, it is debated whether there is a harvest section there, but it is not, which makes it easier to sell ships without saying good word. If this law were not valid, it would have been a way to go, as it is, by selling ships out of the country. It'll sell a ship without a warrant. The documents remain at that company and, in fact, could have been purchased into the country the next day to sell them back to those who want to buy it to increase the ship's seat or adjust and to take out an older and more out - of - date ship. In the 3rd. is being given finals to September 1st, 2016, to extend by one year a so-called Stikkavik Regulation, where one company is above the qualification roof in the noxiere market system. It's like we landed in our own time with the plant's energy supply system in Reykjavík for the dissociation of the company. There we had to extend it several times for financial reorganization to the city of Reykjavík. Eventually, it went through. It should be very clear to me that this law will not be extended again, but it's only time for September 1st, 2016. In Comb 4. is being put on second - to - third - half - mile [1,500 kg] trains of mackerel to small boats and their sources are increasing from some 7,500 tons to 9,500 tons. The d- team is lowering the price as small boats alone, 16 k. for herring and mackerel at 8 p.m., or about half, which I feel is all right to meet small boats that hunt herring. Often, it is merely fished for bait. It seems so fast to me that if you're taking her as such, these 800 trains, if I haven't mixed up with zeros in the iPad, it's 6.4 million. K. I just think it's all right that little boat owners pay a little lower for their tires than they've been. Last year, we were going to raise it according to the Ministry's motion at 23rd, but the committee put it in 16 p.m. That's all that's being done in this bill. As I say, I think it's a misunderstanding that we're putting something in here, or we're gonna decide something rather against mackerel. That was a case upstairs. The next assembly will be held, and this will be discussed. However, the law of 2,000 mackerel trains to small boats is no recognition on anything or anything. A respectable president. This is what I wanted to have as an explanation. I may explain it better when more people are listening, but I support this matter even though I am not one of the carriers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-03-146.u31	A respectable president. Although we in the smaller part of the employment committee are not the representatives of this recommendation, we support it because this is a minor change in experience to facilitate the implementation of these factors, such as Regarding fish species auction for 5.3% of the category. It's easy to sell ships within the country without having to do with dinner, and it's being extended here a so-called Stikkavík song again for a year, which is because that company is above the quota. Then, at the end of the session, you are inserting 2 points. trains of mackerel to small boats, but they are also lowering the price on which government funds sell these resources, in fact, at auction, from 16 k. of 8 K. I'm also in favor of this because it's for small boats, which may not be too practical for sil fishing. If I do the right math in the iPad, it seems to me to be about 6.4 billion. K. who might be falling out there. A respectable president. This is what I wanted to have as a speech explanation, and to members of the council of the officers behind this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-03-146.u32	Mr. President. I support this case even though I'm not a messenger of it and I think it's especially pleasant, as indicated here in Numbers. g., that macroils can be typed differently than putting it in the greeting system. That's it. 2 of you are scheduled. tons of macroil in the next year's fishing to the part of the system that has been called social, professional, and based pot 5.3% of total resources. We've got 2 units down there. To small boats and boats in the hook-up system. I think it's very enjoyable, and here it's just rationalizing what men in the greater part of thought could not be done, can't be done without putting the mackerel into a share. But here's what we're trying to admit, there's a legal thing to do here from the Generals, so I'm on this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-07-03-146.u33	Mr. President. This is the article that tested senators and people in town have helped me to include the possibility of strengthening the legal status of those who have been in the mackerel fishing business and increasing the chances of the mackerel being tormented. I hope I'm wrong. Other senators have come up here on a professional committee and say that I'm wrong, but time will tell. At any rate, I vote against this because I don't feel that it's right to take such a risk without the presence of the people.
