ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, guests of the Supreme Council! Please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Council" system. [[10:01:42]] [[Registration of Ukrainian National Deputies]] There were 416 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session is open. Dear colleagues! Today, we have many questions on our agenda, and according to the 25th article of the Rules, there should be statements by factions authorized by the factions. But just before the beginning, two factions: the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko and the “Our Ukraine – the People's Self-Defense” bloc – have announced the need for consultations on personnel issues and require a 30-minute recess. Under the Rules, a break of up to 10 hours is announced for 32 minutes. And I ask the faction leaders to rise to the third floor in the conference room.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u2	Dear colleagues! Please take up jobs, let's continue our work. A meeting of the Conciliation Council took place at the request of two factions. For consideration of the Conciliation Council, a question was raised regarding changing today’s schedule of meetings and changing the schedule for the consideration of agenda issues. The factions of Yulia Timoshenko, Our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense and the Lithuanian Block have suggested that the first questions should be addressed by two draft laws amending the Constitution of Ukraine, which refer to immunity, in one case only to the national MPs, otherwise the President, the national MPs, the judges. They suggested that these two projects be the first to be considered. Since the Supreme Council of Ukraine decided on October 6th to consider the first issue of the social package, this issue will be discussed with you after we have delivered statements by representatives of the MPs in accordance with the Rules. According to the Rules, two factions who have taken a break have the right to make a statement. Please, Andrew Anatoliyovich Cosemyakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u3	Honorable Colleagues and Honorable Voters! The Yulia Timoshenko faction called for a recess to convince our colleagues of other factions on the Conciliation Council, and most importantly, a colleague of the Party of the Regions to put the first issue of the order of the day's consideration of the bill on the removal of parliamentary immunity. The adoption of this law, especially at the start of the presidential election campaign, is essential. This law will bring the conditions of all the national MPs, whether they are in the coalition or they are in opposition. Such a law will make the MPs responsible for what they say, stop any speculation, outright slander, littering opponents with dirt. During this convening of the Supreme Council, our faction is not the first attempt to help you, your distinguished colleagues from the faction of the Party of the Regions, to fulfill your promise to the electorate and remove the parliamentary integrity. As early as 2008, Bill No. 1375, on amending the Constitution of Ukraine on restrictions of parliamentary immunity, was introduced from the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko and Our People's Self-Defense. Two hundred and twenty-six deputies voted in favour of the document. He was supported by 156 national deputies from our faction of the Yulia Timoshenko and 70 deputies from the faction "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense". The factions of the Party of the Regions, the Communists, the “Block of Lithuania” gave no vote. The law did not enter into force because of observations made by the Constitutional Court. Today, these observations are taken into account. There are no obstacles to the adoption of this law, and it will take effect. During the electoral campaign of 2007, or the unimportant promise of all political forces, including the Party of the Regions, was the removal of parliamentary immunity. Her speakers strongly assured her that one of the first laws of the newly elected parliament would be the Law on the Elimination of Deputy Intactness. Now, the faction of the region by ear is attracting incomprehensible arguments, although we have just agreed on the Conciliation Council that we will also consider the Bill of the Party of Regions, which Victor Janukovich introduced, is Bill No. 3251, and our faction is ready to support it, not only with regard to the removal of immunity from national MPs, but from the President, judges and all those who now have this immunity. Our faction is ready to support all your comments, editorials, corrections, and so forth. Let us vote in favour of this law. But today, to this day, we see that one who shouts more and promises to his constituents and pours dirt on his opponents. And whoever's doing this is more concerned with being untouchable. So today, there's going to be a test in the Supreme Hall, a test of who's really telling the truth, and who's lying to their voters. The test is a vote for bills that take away parliamentary inviolability in order to put the dots over the "and" and not speculate any more.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u4	Please finish, Andrey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u5	Please, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, please vote and support these bills to prevent all factions from being held accountable for lies and sick fantasies before criminal law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u6	Dear colleagues! Please sign up to the factions for statements, announcements of proposals, statements, messages. Please, Baby Oleg Valeriyovich. Sergei Vladislavovich Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! I would like to point out that today's session started quite logically. Because the campaign starts, it's not just the start of an election campaign when ideas are competing, the programs. Regrettably, the campaign began as a competition for dirt, a competition for how this election campaign could be used to find out, not the truth, but to confuse it even more. That's why the Yulia Tymoshenko Block and our faction insist that the responsibility for every word, the weight of every word that sounds in society, and the more that sounds in the session room, be real, not mythical. Because today we have a caste of people who have the ability to announce any information, to declare any so-called facts, and thus to avoid responsibility by hiding under the mandates of the Ukrainian National Deputies. That's why our faction insists that the question that has been discussed in the session hall for almost a year and that it has the support of most of the people's deputies, in the end, be considered, I mean the question of parliamentary integrity. All the possibilities for considering such a question are. There are the findings of the Constitutional Court, the warnings of the Constitutional Court, there are accepted amendments and additions that are taken into account, based on the findings of the Constitutional Court. And I don't think any faction of Parliament will be able to say to this day that the key positions of the software with which these parties and the election blocs are going to fail. That is why our faction insists that the immediate question of the responsibility of any official, including a national MP, be addressed for his actions and actions. That's why, we think, the first question would open the way for a completely real work of Parliament. Secondly, for us today is a fundamental moment. In fact, the so-called scandal that has overtaken the political bomber of Ukraine in the last week is a scandal not only of morality, it is a scandal not only of conscience, it is, in my opinion, a scandal of the inviolability of a number of national MPs who use their service position to declare unverified facts, in order to declare a witness that can then be strengthened by parliamentary integrity. It is from this that the deputies of our faction insist on one thing: we are for the truth to be found, but we are for the punishment of those who use their MP's mandate for one purpose -- the message to society of non-existent facts, and then to hide behind this MP's mandate, counting on it to save them from the judgment of conscience and the judgment of society. That is why our insistence remains that the first question for today should be addressed in the matter that the Supreme Council has passed and that is answered by the Constitutional Court today. The other one. However, it is important to remember that the removal of the integrity of national MPs does not take away a number of other factors. I think society will not remain silent when the drunken mayor, who knocked people down by yesterday’s decision, made a 20 thousand dollars mortgage, walks free today. I think that this issue has also arisen in the session room so that these facts are also regulated by Ukrainian legislation. And the last. Today, there is a question in the agenda that concerns the consideration of the Codex Budget. We would like to hold more consultations because we believe that without this decision, the budget will be very and very difficult. That's why we're asking to move this issue from today's sessional week to the next sessional week, so that we can hold consultations among the factions and with the officials, and this decision would be approved. And the last. In my opinion, there are some things that when you go through, the boundaries of these things work against those who go through them. That's why the only way to find the truth is to remove the parliamentary immunity from all: those who have declared beautiful phrases are not responsible for them, those who may be responsible, regardless of their color, their fractional affiliation and any party. That's why our faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u8	Zinovy Vasilovich, please. () [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u9	Honorable citizens of Ukraine, honourable deputies! The issue of the integrity of the members of the Supreme Council is extremely important and it was the main slogan and the main image of "Our Ukraine" when we went to the elections. And we today, the “For Our Ukraine!” group, “For Ukraine!” will definitely support this bill. And I want to remind only those who may have already forgotten that in their time, the head of the "Our Ukraine" faction, Viacheslav Kirilenko, under great pressure, had achieved what the former coalition had voted on the bill. This bill, and it went to the Constitutional Court, and the Constitutional Court gave its conclusions, a positive conclusion. Therefore, it is important for us today to continue the process because this is a change in the Constitution and it is important that the vote takes place, these two votes that are necessary to make changes to the Constitution. And I urge the National Deputies today to be honest with themselves, before society and to vote on this bill, because we will show that we, as members of the Supreme Council, remove the intrusiveness of ourselves, and then we will pass and film everyone else. As far as I'm concerned. Let's take a picture. We need to be honest and first remove the intrusiveness of ourselves. When it comes to the first question, it must be the tenth or the tenth question. The social issues that stood in the order of the day's first are extremely necessary and important for society, so we don't see any such principle here, we see in this principle only in one to distract social issues. Today, according to official data in the last year, real declines have occurred. The real income of the population is 15 percent, and if we raise these social issues by 15 percent, we're actually just going to get what we're going to get. let's go back to the social guarantees that they were, and I think that's what we need to do for Ukraine today, for a large number of people who are in great trouble with the crisis in Ukraine. So we don't think it's necessary to change the agenda, we need to vote on social issues, and the next question is to vote on integrity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u10	Lukas Olena Leonidivna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u11	Respectable voters, colleagues, media representatives! Today's presentation will focus on a topic that will build the minds of our citizens, the theme of rape and the growth of young children for a second week. The main question that is raised in the press today is whether the abuse of children by the People's Deputies of the Yulia Timoshenko Block, by the Artecians and whether the case is a political order. I'll answer that right now: we're not the court or the prosecutor's office to file charges, to investigate the level of guilt of each of the characters in this case. And we won't blame anyone. We do not see this policy. The main issue that is of concern to us is who, and how, provides pre-trial investigation and what the fate of these children is, a fate mutilated by the inhumane. For today, there are three unquestionable facts. Fact number one: The very fact of violence against children, as confirmed by the findings of forensics, photo and video surveillance, is a lie detector. During the search, 32,000 pornographic photographs and more than 3 ten pornographic films were found. Second fact: the coverage of rapists by Yuri Lucenko. The fact that the mothers refused to institute criminal proceedings, her procedural motion had either not been examined or had been rejected. And even medical examinations were conducted only three months after the mother’s treatment. Third fact: the transfer of a serious crime to a political plane. Let my colleagues from other factions speak and excuse themselves. After all the verbal turmoil, no one remembers the brother and sister whose future is destroyed by the violent, their bodies and souls are maimed, the secret of their adoption is revealed, they will no longer be able to use their names, their educational process interrupted, they are not at home, their primary circle of communication is now with the investigator. Today, three groups of crimes have been committed against these children: violence itself, and it has been committed by the paedophile father and the people he has represented as his friends; the second group of crimes concerns the disclosure of the secret of pretrial investigations, the secret of adoption and the violation of privacy; and the third crime against children is the violation of their security and life; and it is the fact that the case is in the work of the police, led by Yuri Lucenko, who is in charge in Kabul by Alexander Turchinov. I recall that it was these people who, after the murder of the deputy of BUT Lozinski, publicly tried to portray him as a criminal, not a criminal, but a dangerous criminal. Lucenko described Lozinski’s actions as the right thing to do on air. And some of the members of the U.S.U.T. offered to reward the Lausin Orders and Medals for what they had done. These people are now involved in the investigation of children who, according to the victims, were involved by the members of the BIT. Will they conduct an honest investigation? Where's the password? By the way, we removed the MP's immunity from the Lozinski MP. Who can explain to me when he will be prosecuted for a serious crime for murdering an innocent person? The faction of the Party of the Regions will calmly vote in favour of lifting the parliamentary integrity. There is no need to push this issue now by diverting society from paedophilia and social standards. We will support the withdrawal of the MP's integrity. Therefore, the very fact that the authorities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs are investigating is a political and moral crime for me. Lucenko, on the air, has already stated on this matter: “We are ready to investigate the matter objectively, as we have been doing for seven months.” You should think about it: Mothers have refused to initiate criminal proceedings twice and have written a ruling “with your father in a preventive conversation, you have been denied”. Listen to the mother of Ukraine: when you ask for the protection of your children, it is enough to have a preventive conversation with someone to forget all the horrors they have committed. Now, what needs to be done to help these children: we need to establish an interim investigative commission on violence against children immediately. Representatives of all MPs will be able to exercise parliamentary control over the activities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and to understand what has happened. The Attorney General's Office should immediately take the case into its own proceedings by taking it from Lucenko. Since April, i.e. seven months, members of the Ministry of Internal Affairs have been doing everything they can to provoke the investigation. It is therefore necessary to verify the mother's refusal to initiate criminal proceedings and to bring to justice the officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs covering the perpetrators. Since the victims directly point to persons involved in rape, they should be investigated immediately. The main thing is that we need to be strong.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u12	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u13	The main thing is to ensure the safety of children by the procurator's office and the BSP. Because the security presented by Lucenko poses a grave danger. I fear that the culprit, and especially those who are covered by the authorities, will want to erase this scandal by simply eliminating the victim and the accused. Next, it is incumbent on the Public Prosecutor's Office to initiate criminal proceedings against persons who disseminate information about children. For revealing the secret of adoption, for revealing the secret of pretrial investigation, for violating privacy. This list of measures is incomplete; we ask the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Timoshenko, to find the time to consider a statement with cries for the mother's assistance written to her in July, to meet with her in order to see for herself the right of her words. We demand that we present to Parliament the idea of the dismissal of Jury Lucenka for covering and facilitating his agency for the abusers. We demand to facilitate the participation of our deputies directly accused of child rape in the Prime Minister's case. Now, from a pure heart, in Ukraine, 1 out of every 5 children, 1 out of every 5 young Ukrainian is estimated to be subjected to sexual violence. Practice has shown that 90 per cent of mother-to-mother access to the police has not been considered at all. In the case of children, a second offence is committed after violence, a more serious, official, police offence. Thousands of mothers and children are waiting for protection, waiting years, waiting in vain. This scandal may involve well - known people, so it has become so resonant, but it is this resonance that gives reason to hope that criminals will not fall short of responsibility. Now we can't close our sober minister's case. The violent and the high-ranking will be seated.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u14	Olena Leonidovno, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u15	Wait! Children have endured violence for three years, have a conscience for three minutes to listen. Colleagues! Today we must consider the dismissal of Lucenka. All those who have a conscience must vote to ensure that children and mothers of Ukraine have at least the hope of protection, hope for protection and justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u16	Finish up, please. Grenevetsky Sergey Rafailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u17	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, voters! Thus, every electoral campaign in our country has become a threat to the national security of the state. The pre-election fever, like a pandemic, covers all, without exception, the authorities, as a result, exceed the expected limits of social population. The term “crisis” is now very popular in political lexicon, which is justified by previous estimates of public policy, inaction, own professional incompetence, and, even, the desire to complete the redistribution of those attractive objects that have yet to be owned by the State. The electoral campaign for Ukraine is a miniature crisis. It is during this period that several “bombs” are laid down in slow action in the form of lobbyist laws that are adopted with violations of the Constitution and, in large account, with common sense. It seems that their authors hope that after the elections, everything will be settled in its own accord, and they do not even have the courage to be afraid of the state of affairs in Ukraine. Superstition and diluteness are becoming a norm, and authorities do not want to prove themselves right, for they are no longer counted. Parliament's work has recently been unlocked, but we have no guarantee that the situation will not happen again and again. All of this will lead to the destruction of parliamentaryism and will pave the way for a dictatorship that does not matter, whether personal or clan. So we have to answer for ourselves whether we're going to become the only legislative body hostage of the election, or whether we can go against the general tendency of self-destruction. We have too much to do. Today, there is talk of slowing down the pace of the crisis, but slowing down is not the end. Ukraine is constantly balancing at a dangerous threshold that can trigger a new, more destructive, wave. You know very well that the global economic crisis has had a much deeper negative impact on Ukraine's economy than on the economies of other nations. But taking steps to combat the crisis is a palate. The first cause of our problems, the oligarchic model of the economy, has not been eliminated. The poverty of the working population, the shadow economy today is a typical phenomenon of Ukrainian reality. The composition of wages in the country’s gross domestic product is extremely low. Experts estimate that a Ukrainian worker earns three times as much income per unit of salary as in developed countries. So there's a wild exploitation of labor. National, including budgetaryly targeted programmes, could be an important factor in innovative investment development and should be 5-7 no more to concentrate available financial resources and thus contribute to the development of the national economy. Today, Parliament faces a number of important challenges: the adoption of laws aimed at the revitalization of entrepreneurial activities, the strengthening of the banking system, and the de-olarcization of the economy. We should not forget, too, that there is a significant legal deficit in the authorities. There is no stable element in the state, and the destabilization of Parliament will be the next step towards the destruction of Ukrainian statehood. Dear colleagues, the Lithuanian Block faction is calling on you to focus on addressing the key issues of normalization of the political and economic situation in the country. As a first step, we propose to consider laws that would legalize the electoral process, including the question of the composition of the Central Electoral Commission. In addition, we believe that we need to introduce elections into the constitutional field of local councils, to be determined not only by the date of their election but also by the system of elections. The appointment of a constitutional level should be made by the Heads of the State Property Fund, the Head of the State Television and Radio Committee, the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee. And the main thing is to start looking at the State Budget project for 2010. The consistency of the budget process can be the best evidence of the effectiveness of the Supreme Council. Clearly, there are many shortcomings in the government’s presentation of the project. But there are also many interesting innovations, including support for local budgets. They call for changes to the budget code. And this is not a question to be put off for later. Convinced that the election race should not prevent us from resolving the main issue: preserving and strengthening constitutional principles, ensuring the legitimacy of the electoral process, and creating conditions for a civilised transfer of power after the presidential election. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u18	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, I'd like to address each and every one of you. Let us answer the question of what is yet to happen in our “kingdom-state” so that we can finally realize that we cannot continue to live like this! What else has to be done? [[Applause]] I'm sorry, I'll say something personal and proud. Today, the youngest member of our family, our granddaughter, is 102 days old. Each of you has children, or grandchildren, or teenagers. I'm asking you one more question, what would each of you have done if it were for your children or your grandchildren?Oh, my God! Would you care as much as you do now?Oh, my God! I doubt it! [[Applause]] I think this is the moment of truth when really the Supreme Council is going to “cleanse” and “cleanse” in a literal and figurative sense! “Clean off” if it is proved that some of ours, I don’t know how to say, have really deteriorated to the extent they say, should suffer the highest amount of punishment that I don’t even have yet and I propose that it be the death penalty! But on the other hand, the Supreme Council must “cleanse” itself and protect itself if it is proven to be another special operation, then such a “disgusting pillar” should be set up by those who obstructed the operation, its organizers and instigators! I think that, at last, selfishness, pride and dignity should play a part in the Supreme Council! I urge once again: let us “cleanse” both from the villains and from those who want to slander, if this does not correspond to reality. There are different ways to go. Believe me, on my firm belief, there is more than one day in politics, all of it from the wicked. This is a search for how to flip the arrow. Why is it inviolable to rape? If he does, he will not be touched, will he not be raped? Does this have anything to do with it? Absolutely not. Or why there's some talk here that says let's choose not by party lists, but by county, then there'll be more order. I won't open the secret, and each of you knows that whoever bought the place on the list is 10 times easier to buy the victory in the county. Because if he paid 10 to 15 million dollars for the passage on the party list, he'd have enough to buy any rural district. [[Applause]] All of this from the wicked one. We're here to take down the inviolability of everyone, and we're going to vote. But that's not where we're looking. We've reached degradation. It started out kind of small. It all began with the fact that step by step we were breaking laws. I remind you of the most important milestones. 95 is a constitutional treaty. 2000 is the event in the Ukrainian House when the Supreme Council was drowned. 2004 is an incomprehensible third round of presidential elections. 2007 is an extra-constitutional election. And so on and so forth. All things considered, it's a deal. And we've come to the point that Ukraine has once again found itself at the heart of a world scandal. And we have no excuse, because we do not want to defend ourselves, our state, our parliament. And I'm afraid that this is going to go to the sand as well as other resonances that there are many things in our country. I suggest it's probably radical, but I think it would be a fair and real way out of things like this. Perhaps we should introduce the concept of “political castration”. If the political party in its ranks has such villains as are in our sessional hall, this party will castrate for five years, by ten in election rights, so that it has no right not to sit in Parliament, not in local authorities. I ask once again, I'm cutting Parliament down, colleagues, let's protect ourselves, protect the state of Ukraine. You can't keep living like this!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u20	Showtime's up. Ladies and gentlemen, we move on to a decision that is in line with the proposal of the Conciliation Council, which proposes to review today's schedule of meetings and to consider two first questions of Bills 3251 and 1375, which refer to the immunity of the President, the National Deputies, the Judges and the People's Deputies separately in another project. Please, on the basis of the consideration of Ephraim, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u21	Alexander Vladimirovic, actually, is not a good practice when we make a decision on Monday at the Conciliation Council, and then someone thinks about the next day and we change everything. From our point of view, the main issues that people are interested in today are raising minimum social standards, i.e. minimum wages and pensions, and the issue that has arisen. child abuse. And these issues will build a society today. In our understanding, colleagues want to take the other side away from these issues. Nevertheless, we will agree to address these issues first, and our faction will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u22	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. I'm voting on the proposal to consider the first issues, the first and second bills, 3251 and 1375. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:12:13]] For the 420. Decision taken. We're sometimes predicted to create new coalition formats. I think it's a good coalition. Dear colleagues, I am announcing a draft Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine. And, with your permission, I will report this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u23	A Companion of Exaggeration! Dear colleagues! This bill has long been introduced to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Finally, there was an opportunity for us to consider it. The main purpose of this bill is that there must be one law for all in our country. There should be no person, no man, who is freed from the requirements of Ukrainian law. This bill foresees that a person would not be in a position: whether he is in office as President of Ukraine, whether he will be elected as National Deputy of Ukraine, or whether he is serving in the Ukrainian court – all are required by Ukrainian legislation. And in the case of acts that have signs of crime, this person should be dealt with in a criminal case without any restrictions. There should be no limit to that. We suggest that all these restrictions be lifted. At the same time, this project foresees that these persons who are authorized by the name of the State to decide either in this Hall or to pass judgments or to pass a decision on behalf of Ukraine in a court or to act as Head of State should be released from one form of precautionary action. So any precaution can be taken except for arrest. The only way to arrest these people is if they've been proven guilty and there's an indictment, or if there's a need to be seen during the investigation period, then by the consent of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, any person and judge, and a national deputy, and the President may be arrested for sentencing. This is a proposal that accurately states that there can be no citizen in the Ukrainian State for whom there is an exception to the implementation of Ukrainian laws. And all must be responsible for their every action. I would have asked the Ukrainian National Deputies to identify us today, to include this project in the agenda of the day session, and to refer it to the Constitutional Court to conclude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u24	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Alexander Volodymyrovich, please remain with us on the procedure proposed by the committee. Please sign up for the answers to the question to the reporter. People's MP Matthews. Adam Ivanovich, are you? He's handing over Martiniuk Adam Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u25	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Undoubtedly, the results of 420 votes showed that bills have the right to life, to exist, to be voted on now. But it's not a solution, I'm stressing again, the problem we're talking about. Because I am addressing each and every one of you, especially the ancients. Give me one example, please, when the Attorney General addressed the Supreme Council, and the Supreme Council did not agree to bring a criminal or national deputy to justice. Can you call that an accident? There were no such cases. There was only one occasion when the Attorney General’s office was not available, and he was sent to work. And then the Attorney General didn't give it back to us. All the other cases, all the other cases, I'm sorry, I've been looking into them, and I can't see the problem here. Schmellow's on me.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u26	Yes, give it another minute, Svetlana Schmelov gives Adam Ivanovich another minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u27	So, dear fellows, once again, I'm speaking calmly, I'm focusing on your attention. That's not where we're looking, not there. Because with the law enforcement agencies in our country, tomorrow an untouched MP will be a mockery in the eyes of any police sergeant. For whatever he wills, he will do according to the direction of those whom you have criticized. But it's different. There's a question. Alexander Volodymyrovich, the faction is ready to support this bill, but unfortunately, there is no third element, there is only the people's deputies and 105 articles about the President. The judge's, unfortunately, isn't involved. Let's add the judicial corps out of the voice, and then it'll be absolutely fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, regarding Adam Ivanovich's last remark, I'll tell you. What applies to judges is already valid standards. This formula is now in the Constitution of Ukraine. So there's no point in changing it. So we're bringing to the only denominator of the people's deputies and the President what's now written for the judges. With regard to the statement concerning the Supreme Council and those deputies who have violated the law, I fully support you and have repeatedly stressed that we have not actually had such cases, that when the Attorney General was represented, the Supreme Council would not agree. In this case, however, there is evidently a social request to take steps to ensure that no human can hide from criminal persecution for unlawful acts that have signs of crime.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask the Communist faction. So it happened that all of us, before Alexander Volodymyrovich, two factions had been recorded, we would have been able to have other factions. If the communists didn't insist, Adam Ivanovich? No, they don't. Then Papiev, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u30	Thank you. Please pass the word to Hanna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u31	Hanna Herman, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, the reason that we are again raising the issue of integrity in Parliament today is a terrible shadow of the disgrace that has fallen on some members of Parliament. But what guarantee do we have that tomorrow or tomorrow such a shadow of shame will not fall on any of the President's Secretariat or the Cabinet of Ministers or the judges or other high-ranking officials? So it's only fair today to put everyone equal before the law: both the President, and the judges, and the members of the Cabinet of Ministers. That is why we must vote in favour of the bill proposed by Alexander Lavrinovich. Today, those who try to take the President away from equality before the law not only violate their pre-election promises, where they say: the law is one for all.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u33	Thank you. Let me finish. Are you done? Dear colleagues, I understand this is not a matter of opposition. Alexander Volodymyrovich, I don't think there is. Yeah? Please finish. Anna Herman. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u34	This effort not only to remove the responsibility of the President of Ukraine but also to protect the future President from any possible violations. Let's think about the future and today let's vote for a law that makes every citizen and president equal in rights and makes them equal before the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u35	Well, there's actually no question here, I can only agree with Hannah Mikolayevna's point of view that there's obviously a need for everyone to be equal before the law. As for senior civil servants, they still lack immunity. And it may be necessary to work harder on the law enforcement authorities of Ukraine to ensure that those in high positions do not act freely with Ukrainian laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u36	The National MP of the Evening Meal gives the word to Alexander Stoyan, the Party of the Regions. Please, Alexander Stoyan's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u37	Dear colleagues! Indeed, the issue of the removal of parliamentary immunity has become political. And the whole time that the election starts, whether it's to Parliament or the President, it raises the subject. I want to draw your attention to the project that Janukovich has put in place, the removal of parliamentary immunity not only from the deputies, but also from the President. From the point of view of future elections, when we are convinced that President Janukovic will become President, it would be important for us to have the President's integrity. But we're not talking about the personnel, we're talking about the responsibility of the official. Therefore, certainly, I call upon all of you to support the proposal of our political power, where there will be no so-called “inviolable castes” and from the deputies will remove the inviolability, and from the President, and especially from those Christmas Logs who give generously, slaughter and bear no responsibility. I call on you to support our project, and I want you, Alexander Volodymyrovich, to confirm once again that you do not need to have a point in this project to remove the MP's in touch with the judges, that this point is already in place so that we don't end up. So they're going to stay untouchable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u38	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u39	I've actually said that before. We have only the only defence for judges of Ukraine in the current Constitution, which is that they cannot be arrested without the consent of the Supreme Council before sentencing them. Criminal cases against them can and are being investigated, and we were with you when we agreed to arrest them before the court actually tried the case and sentenced them.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u40	Jaroslav Suhi, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u41	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, Party of Regions, Zaporozhye Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, I have in my hands the decision of Constitutional Court No.12-rp since 26.06.2003. In terms of constitutional submissions, paragraph 1.1. of the article on the status of the Ukrainian National Deputy should be understood that parliamentary integrity as an element of the status of the Ukrainian People's Deputy is a constitutional guarantee of the uninterrupted and effective exercise of its powers by the Ukrainian People's Deputy. I have a question for you. How will this bill be implemented without hindrance and effective authorization by the Ukrainian National MP in the event of your bill being adopted, and to what extent this bill does not contradict the conclusion. [[I mean, it's your bill.]] The Constitutional Court's decision of 26.06.2003? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u42	Thank you for asking a very good question. I want to make it clear, this is not my bill, this is Bill 154 of the People's Deputies, including you, which is what the Constitution requires. We introduced this bill, and you asked me to introduce it, this bill. And as for the decision of the Constitutional Court that you quoted. I would like to point out once again that this is indeed an important circumstance for the Ukrainian national deputies and members of parliament to be able to carry out their duties as representatives of the Ukrainian people without hindrance. In fact, it is possible for the Ukrainian national deputy to be. A precautionary measure of arrest was applied to him only with the consent of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Because in the present situation, if there is a violation of the law, it must be investigated and a judicial order must be established: guilty or not guilty. Of course, in Ukraine we have many examples when a person is in prison, then they say: "Well, I'm sorry, we washed up," and we might not apologize. And, of course, what is involved in political activity in our society is, well, we can be so sure that such methods would be applied. That's why everyone has to be equal before the law, and everyone has to answer, but to be deprived of their will without a court order and without proof of guilt, only by the consent of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u43	Yuri Carmazin, please ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u44	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, your honor! Obviously, after the Constitutional Court's decision, where we had already recruited 226, the first law to amend the Constitution of Ukraine on the elimination of parliamentary immunity was to be laid down, and to stop the conversation in general that exists. In addition to everything else, I draw your attention to the fact that Adam Martinyuk spoke quite correctly today about the fact that nothing prevented the law enforcement authorities from investigating the facts that we are talking about today and for what we are drawing up today. I want to give an example of Level, where two years ago children were abused. These are facts proven, the case brought before the court, covered by the head of the court, and then sent for investigation. What to do is that it was not the prosecutor who confirmed the verdict. Here's what's going on. And there the deputy Lukas was leaving the faction of the regions, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u45	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u46	The first would have to be a different law -- one that we actually could and should make changes to the Constitution today. I want to ask you, Your Honor Alexander Volodymyrovich, why we're looking at the first not the bill that is already approved by the Constitutional Court, but the one that only does the imitation, because it's just the first step, then the direction. And it's been playing so-called "democracy" for six months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u47	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich! As far as imitation is concerned, I think it's on your conscience. Your grade is so internal. As for the order of the hearing, this is the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to make a proposal to the Conciliation Council. Question time's up. Please report from the committee Mishchenko Sergey Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u48	Honorable Presidium, Honourable People's Deputies, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine! I want to point out that we are now conducting a procedure called technical. So we don't interfere with the body of a law that changes the Constitution of Ukraine. We're going to the Constitutional Court, and the Constitutional Court can only say the constitutionality of these rules, changes to the Constitution, or unconstitutionality. With regard to the Committee on Legal Policy, the Committee on Legal Policy on this bill has taken the following decision: the Committee considers it possible to include in the agenda of the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the sixth draft amending bill on guarantees of immunity for individual officials, registration number 3251 from 03.10.2008 and its referral to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to obtain a finding on the compatibility of the bill with the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was prepared by the Committee. With regard to standards that are changing today. They refer to the changes to article 80 concerning the status of the national MP and articles relating to the President of Ukraine. The difference is that if we send it to the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court recognizes it as constitutional, the MP may only be detained or arrested after the indictment of the court, which will enter into legal force. I mean, there's not going to be very equal conditions for Ukrainian citizens here either, but this is determined by the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Council with this. As for the President, you now know the order of his involvement in criminal responsibility exists through impeachment. If the Constitutional Court recognizes the constitutional norm, and the Supreme Council agrees to such a change to the Constitution, the President will be called to account, detained or arrested only after the arraigned decision of the court is brought into effect. I mean, there has to be a fact -- a judgment of the court that in the first, which is otherwise, and only then can either the MP or the President arrest or arrest. With regard to judges, judges say that this bill does not provide for a change in the inviolability of judges. That is, article 126 of the Constitution does not change, it remains as it is, that the Supreme Council gives consent, cannot be attracted to a judge, to whether he is detained or arrested without the consent of the Supreme Council. Therefore, I ask the Chamber to determine that we must support the referral of this law to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court must give us a conclusion, and then we will approve it first. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u49	Please sign up for Sergio Grigorovitch. Yagoferov Anatoly Mikolajovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u50	Please give the floor to the deputy of Portnow.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u51	Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich Portnov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u52	Thank you. Andrew Portnov, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Dear Sergey Grigorovich, I'd like to ask you about the bill that you're about to report. We hear a lot about our colleagues from the Party of Regions suggesting that we remove parliamentary immunity. Please tell me, will the adoption of such a bill really leave a national MP, a judge, or a president untouched? Are the rules on real integrity in this bill being implemented and will they really be applied if we vote on this bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u53	Thank you for asking. Once again, I want to repeat that we are now sending this bill to the Constitutional Court. The difference between Bill 1375, introduced by Kirilenko Viacheslav and Kirilenko John, is that the bill provides a general answer that the MP is like a normal citizen, can be arrested and arrested at any time. So the question is, there's a charge, there's a suspect, so according to the Criminal Procedure Code, it's like an ordinary person. As far as this bill is concerned, the President and the MP may be detained or arrested only if there is an indictment of a court that will be legally binding. This is a condition, or even some unequal conditions remain.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u54	Borodin the All-Volude Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u55	Please pass the word Pisarenko Valeria.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u56	Dear Sergey Grigorovich, with great respect to your committee, you have considered all the bills professionally. You also have a bill by the President amending the Constitution, namely the actual adoption of the Constitution in a new edition. You know, if we're looking at the withdrawal of parliamentary immunity today, I'd like to confirm or refute that fact. The President, who also struggles with parliamentary intrusiveness, in his bill said that the former President has in fact been untouchable for the rest of his life through his stay in the upper chamber of parliament and because nothing can be done with him at all. I mean, it's kind of forever intact. Please tell me, how did your committee react to the fact that the President of Ukraine, in his draft Constitution, prescribed permanent immunity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u57	Thank you for asking. Although this question does not apply to the order of today’s consideration of the bill. But I'll give you the answer. What if you take the bill, if you look at the body of this bill of president, is, as it was, the MP's integrity is left intact, so that's the MP's immunity is 94 articles of the so-called presidential law, so nothing has changed in this case. As far as your question is concerned, indeed, a viable senator becomes, former presidents become viable senators, and they will not be touched in this case either. That's why I'm logical. Although this is not a question, we will consider this bill separately. And in this case, I'm just going to stop at it in more detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u58	National MP Stishenko refers the right to a question to the National MP, Philippeenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear Sergey Grigorovich, when we discussed on the committee together the rules contained in the bill, we have certainly drawn attention to the fact that article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine, to which changes are planned, in fact in the new bill that we are currently considering, contains the same positions, only those, if spoken in a legal language, may have been rewritten in advance. And I have a question that's not as easy for you as it is for a lawyer, for an expert, but more for politics. Do you not think that we are actually going to vote for the same standard of the Constitution that currently exists in article 80, talking about the changes that we are currently considering regarding parliamentary integrity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u60	Thank you for asking. Although I want to say that as Head of the Committee of Legal Policy, I am doing a professional job, a legal one. I try to deal with politics when I look at a committee, just in a professional way, whether it's a bill or a bill or a bill or a bill. So I'm just on an objective assessment of what a change is, in this bill is a change, but all the same to the citizens, to the ordinary citizens, when this bill is passed, the presidents and the judges will be very far away.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u61	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u62	Thank you! Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Sergey Grigorovich! As a non-political general of justice, please tell us that you repeatedly point out that unequal national MPs with citizens even under this law. It's kind of like that. But please tell me, as a lawyer, that fits European world practice in Parliament, doesn't it? Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u63	Thank you for asking. I can say as follows, European and world legislation is really different from, with its mentality, its historical history, and so forth. And so I can say that there's a half-division of legislation on parliamentary immunity. Some of the countries cancel the parliamentary immunity — that is, it does not exist; in other countries it does exist. Therefore, we must choose the course we choose for ourselves. We have to look at international legislation, but you know, if we're going to copy it, we shouldn't do it, we should do it according to our realities. If we're not supposed to have parliamentary immunity, I don't need it as a general, and I didn't need it now, so I don't do disgraceful things. And I'm sure that whoever doesn't do these things should very easily get rid of this parliamentary inviolability. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u64	Thank you, Sergey Grigorovich. Have a seat, please. Adam Ivanovich, I can tell you that the practice that you've asked about only provides for exceptions in certain countries to arrest at the crime scene, the rest does not allow members of parliament to be arrested. Please, Viacheslav Anatoliyovich Kirilenko, of the procedure for dealing with the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u65	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine!” Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich and distinguished colleagues! I propose to discuss two bills immediately, 3251 and 1375, and then to vote in turn. In this regard, I would ask that we now listen to the report and the second draft, and then we both discuss and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u66	Will there be no objection to such an offer? [[B in m in s a l in]] There's no objection, is there? There's no objection. Please, then, we will now hear reports on the second bill, we will discuss it together, and we will make consistent decisions. I invite you to report to John Grigorovich Kirilenko, who is authorized to report Bill 1375. Please transfer this right to Kirilenko Viácheslav Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u67	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues, honourable voters, this bill, which has the co-authors of two Kirilen women – Ivan Grigorovich and myself. We introduced it by the end of 2007, and the debate with battle and difficulty began in early 2008, and on July 7, last year, an invitation was received to the Constitutional Court. In this regard, I am obliged to pay more attention to a few questions. We are now asked to vote on another bill, 3251, which has not yet passed any proceedings before the Constitutional Court. If it is voted, it means that a long procedure will begin, in my opinion, in the Constitutional Court, then the return of this bill here, another vote in 226, and then another vote in 300 votes. So actually, after voting on the bill proposed by the Party of Regions today, I think we can only dream of canceling the MP's immunity somewhere over a year and a half and not before. In fact, it's putting the question in a long box. So we're surprised that Bill 1375, which has been in the production of the Supreme Council for two years and has passed the procedure before the Constitutional Court, is not the first to be considered. In addition, the “For Ukraine!” MP group has the principle of disagreement with some of the provisions of the 3251 bill. Of course, it is appealing to speak of the need to undo the inviolability of all. But, honourable colleagues, it is suggested that essentially leave the judges untouchable in the extent that they are now the bill of the Party of Regions and propose to impose the responsibility of the head of the Ukrainian State, his detention and arrest after the sentence of any district court. Simply put, from the point of view of government construction, this approach is suggested. After the presidential election, any district court, for example, I say, the district court of the city of Jenakiyev takes a decision on the crime of the new Head of State and decides that he is being accused. And no agreement of the Supreme Council and, more importantly, no society is required to be drawn and arrested. Or on the contrary, after the presidential election, any district court in Dnipropetrovska will rule on another candidate for his arrest and arrest. No agreement is needed, and society will not be asked. Thus, by the approach envisaged by the President's arrest, the Head of the Ukrainian State, at any time after any court decision, we lay the groundwork for the destruction of the Ukrainian state as such. We repeat that this question does not change independently of the name of the President, because it is the Head of the Ukrainian State. So we think that this approach is incompatible with the basic concepts that relate to state creation. Moreover, for the responsibility of the President, including for criminal offences, there is a special procedure in the Ukrainian Constitution, everyone knows that this is an impeachment procedure and it foresees all the necessary steps in the event of a real act by the head of the crime state and the stages of bringing the head of state to justice in such a case. So we don't think it's very constructive. And we invite the people's advocates, the people's deputies, not to put the question in a long box, for a year and a half, not to appeal to the President, or anyone else, but to start removing the intricacy from themselves, because that question is ready. And today we can vote in 226 votes on stage two. And by the beginning of February, in 300 votes, cancel the parliamentary immunity as such. Obviously, there really is no such desire in the Chamber of Deputies. It is therefore proposed to vote on another bill and to send it to endless agreement, reconciliation in the Constitutional Court and endless voting in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Third. In fact, Bill 1375. I am obliged to repeat what is going on. In our bill, which has been tabled jointly by two factions of its time, it is a matter of fundamentally changing the working text of article 80 of the Constitution. The present edition of article 80 of the Constitution is as follows. The first part. “The national MPs of Ukraine are guaranteed parliamentary immunity.” Part two. “The national deputies of Ukraine shall not be held legally responsible for the results of the vote or expression in Parliament and in its organs, except for those responsible for the offence or slander.” And part three. “The Ukrainian National Deputies cannot be held criminally, detained or arrested without the consent of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.” Our offer. The first and third parts are removed, basically, like this. I repeat, there is already a positive conclusion of the Constitutional Court. And so already today we can take a significant step towards making 80 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine sound as follows. Article 80. “The national deputies of Ukraine shall not be held legally responsible for the results of the vote or vote in Parliament and its organs, except for those responsible for the offence or slander.” [[Dot]] And no mention of the MP's integrity remains. Thus, today’s vote on Bill 1375 and the adoption of 80 articles of the Constitution in such an editorial will lead to the fact that, as my colleague Mishchenko rightly put it, MPs will become like ordinary people. And so, in expressing the opinion of the ordinary people that we are all here in this room, I propose to vote first in Bill 1375, which speaks only of cancelling parliamentary immunity. And to move this process at such a pace and in the way that the electorate and our conscience tell us to. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u68	Please sign up for a question to the reporter. Bondar Alexander Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u69	Please pass the word to Matthew Anatoly Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u70	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" block. Mr. Viacheslav, you were absolutely right about the President when the district court, any corrupt man today, can do wonders. But I want to ask you, do you understand that this is the same situation that an MP is in on your project? When it's not just the court, but any militiaman will detain you, and you don't have your own parliamentary authority, the more you organize the fight against corruption, let's say you don't do it at the local level. Because you're going to be totally wrong. You won't even get to that area, you'll be delayed along the way. Do we understand? And the second. That no European state has an analogy. And if there is, please make it right, that's my statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, thank you to Anatoly Sergiyovich for asking. But what I want to say is, in principle, if you think of recent events, like 2003, 2004, many of the other colleagues here can confirm that there was no need for any parliamentary immunity in order to be detained as a Ukrainian national deputy. For example, in 2004, I had twice been detained by internal affairs authorities, regardless of my status as a national MP, who guaranteed parliamentary integrity. Because there was this kind of politics and this kind of political decision. So, basically, I don't think that solves the problem, because right now, the cases you're talking about can. This is a question for discussion. There are analogs, including in other countries, I can call the experience of Slovakia, the experience of Slovenia, the experience of the Czech Republic and some other countries. Of course, the issue of overturning parliamentary integrity must be removed today. My editorial may be radical, but it allows us to fulfill the commitments we have made.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u72	Zinovy Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u73	Dear Viacheslav Anatoliyovich, please tell me, because you may have forgotten just how much for this bill that you are about to report, how many votes have been voted on, and what factions have voted to vote, if these factions are now refusing to vote, so that voters will know who has changed their minds over a year and a half.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u74	Thank you, Mr. Zenovia for asking. I think that this debate is being followed closely by voters, and they know, and if they don't know, it's probably worth reminding us that at the beginning of 2008, after the fifth attempt on Bill 1375, a total of 226 votes were cast. And that was equal to 226 votes of the deputies, who were only two factions of the Ukrainian Parliament: “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense” and “The Block of Yulia Timoshenko”. We hope that these same MPs, despite the fact that there is now a water division along the line of coalition and non-participation in the coalition, regardless of the view of the Prime Minister's coalition, the current government and so on, that these same 226 deputies today vote for the second time in favour of Bill 1375 and will take the second of all three steps to undo the parliamentary immunity that voters repeatedly talk about, regardless of their colour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u75	Lápina Kseniya Anatoliyevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u76	Thank you. Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine! ” Dear Viachelav Anatolyevich! Here our distinguished colleagues have noticed that if you remove the touch, then the MP, like any other citizen, may be detained at any time. In other words, colleagues finally noticed that our citizens were not protected, that they could be detained at any time for unknown reasons. And that's all because we still have the Code of Criminal Procedure, I'm sorry, Soviet times. In the '60s, well, to put it mildly, they're difficult for Ukraine. I want to draw attention to the fact that there is a draft Criminal Procedure Code that can protect any average citizen, including the deputy. Perhaps the MPs will have a greater desire to adopt the new Procedural Code and protect the average citizen if he becomes the same as the citizen?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u77	Thank you, Xenia Mikhailno, for asking. Of course, it's important, even though we don't now have the rules that apply to the new Criminal Procedure Code. But I'm completely supportive of you. And I know that, by the way, our colleagues are members of the "For Ukraine!" MPs are developing and participating in the relevant working group on criminal and procedural legislation, including Deputy Vladimir Mopsik. And we, of course, have to do everything we can to ensure that these issues are brought to the attention of the Ukrainian Parliament as soon as possible so that the detention, arrest, conditions of detention and all other procedures relating to investigation are clearly normalized and consistent with European practice. Because, of course, colleagues here are concerned about MPs, and how long do we have on the day of tens of thousands of people are delayed, and then they come out of shock when they're told, well, you know, you stayed here last night, and now we're telling you, forget about the bruises, you're not guilty of anything? It's only people who know, and that's what we have to deal with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u78	Herman Hanna Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u79	Dear Viachelav, your position is very often a source of my personal confidence. And I would be willing to support you, and now, if you were to make the law equal for everyone, you'd also take into account the President of Ukraine and the judges. And here we are all together, just as we have now voted 420 deputies in favour of including this issue in the agenda, we would support you. Unfortunately, your position is only half-honored right now, and therefore I urge you to support also that bill that aligns before the law and the MPs and the judges and the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Anna. But I want to tell you that my position is completely and honestly, because I'm not trying to get between the dots, and I'm saying clearly my position, and it's that the President is not just a figure, and this is the head of the Ukrainian state. I am trying to prove the position of all of us, the "For Ukraine!" and the other colleagues of the NUNS faction, which is to be abstracted from the names "Jushchenko", "Januković", "Timoshenko" and so on and to understand that this is the head of a 48 million-million-dollar country, and which, as a result of political debate, if the District Court decides to delay every day or every week, then the whole world will laugh at us. And that's why I think. Maybe I'm wrong, but I think that this approach, if implemented, is one of the weakening scenarios, if not the collapse of an independent Ukrainian state. I am willing to argue on this subject, but this is our principle position, and we will not deviate from it. And the integrity of MPs needs to be undone now, because people are calling for it, and we know it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u81	Jaroschuk Vladimir Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u82	Jaroschuk Vladimir Ivanovich, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please pass it on to Chechtev.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u83	Dear Vjeslav Anatolievich, before you, one of your colleagues from Our Ukraine said that we should take something. I'd like to answer that. Do you know why we are in the mire of economic, political, and now the paedophile crisis? Because for 18 years we've been trying to patch something up, at least take something, because Ukrainian politicians lacked the political will to make systemic decisions -- political, economic. We therefore propose, and we would vote in favour of our law, where philosophy is about to make a systematic political decision. Unfortunately, we have 46 million under the law today and a handful of people headed by the President above the law. We are for everyone to be under the law and the law is binding on everyone. We don't understand why when it comes to elections, you try one person.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u84	Complete the question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u85	We don't understand why, when it comes to elections, you're trying to leave one of the 46 million people -- the President -- above the law and the rest under the law. That would be totally unfair. Let us think in strategic, forward-looking categories, and then we will build this rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u86	Thank you, Mr. Michael, for your question. But I think the solution you're proposing is not exactly systemic. On the contrary, it destroys the foundations of the entire system of state power, because as a result of the political clarifications of the relations that are now taking place in Ukraine, and it is still unknown how much space there will be, we are striking the most legitimate figure in the country that is elected by popular vote, the head of the Ukrainian state, the President of Ukraine. Again and again, I urge all the political forces to refrain from the names of the present and possible future President. We don't know what the name of the future president will be. But we all have to get out of the fact that he shouldn't wake up every day and think about what decision the District Court today about crime and its detention is going to take, and what countermeasures are going to counter. If you put your hand on your heart, I think most of you, dear colleagues, will agree with me. So we suggest that we cancel the parliamentary immunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u87	Thank you, Viacheslav Anatolyovich. Have a seat, please. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u88	Honorable Presidency, respected colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Although we are considering two bills: both the previous one and 1375 -- although the decision procedure is completely different. Because the first bill -- we're only getting to the first stage of the referral to the Constitutional Court. And only the Constitutional Court can determine whether it is constitutional or not. We have no right to be determined on this issue. So I would urge all my colleagues to support the first bill that we discussed and sent to the Constitutional Court, and let the Constitutional Court reach its conclusion. As far as the second bill is concerned. On September 10, 2008, the Constitutional Court reached its conclusion. In order not to speak of myself, I will read the decision of the Constitutional Court: “The Constitutional Court has reached the conclusion that it is in conformity with the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the bill on amending the Constitution of Ukraine on the limitation of parliamentary immunity”. Article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine should read as follows: “The national deputies of Ukraine shall not be held legally responsible for the results of the vote or expression in Parliament and its organs, except for those responsible for the offence or slander.” So for over a year now, this conclusion has been in the walls of Parliament. I want to explain to the people's deputies the procedure for adopting this law. If we are now adopting Law 1375 in the preliminary review, we need 226 votes in order for it to pass. Then in the next session, and this is only in February, we have to vote 300 votes for it. Hence, the question is not that he is immediately becoming a legal force. We must abide by all the procedures provided for in the Constitution. So I'm just calling on my colleagues from the Party of Regions: if we've decided to uphold the law of your referral to the court, then I ask you to support and still determine that everyone should be equal before the law, and the deputy in this case will have the same status as the ordinary citizen of Ukraine, because those accusations that are now being made on the side of the MPs. Let us see, then, that after the adoption of this law, all charges that are objective may be reenacted in detention or in the custody of a national MP. And if this is not confirmed, then in detention and in arrest of those who are distributing this information. But all will be equal and only the judgment will say its word. Therefore, the question today is that all the bills that have passed the appropriate conclusions or expertise today should be either sent to the Constitutional Court or voted in the Supreme Council. Then the MPs will show their position and attitude toward the overall parliamentary and other integrity. And the question Adam Ivanovich asked me in the previous report about countries. What can I call these countries where there is no parliamentary immunity? This is Iceland, Argentina, Germany, Brazil, Belgium, Slovenia, Czech Republic, Poland, and very many countries that really don't have any kind of parliamentary immunity. Therefore, Slovenia or the Czech Republic is clearly not in touch with the MPs. So let's talk about the fact that we're not going to look again at the countries in the world that there's legislation, but we're going to live by our laws and the reality that now exists in our country. Do we personally, as deputies, need this in touch, or do we not need it? If anyone needs it, he won't vote. I don't need it, I'm going to vote for one bill, send it to the Constitutional Court, which is the second bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u89	Thank you, Sergey Grigorovich. Dear colleagues, can we finish this consideration? Dear colleagues! Can we conclude our consideration of these two issues without declaring a break?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u90	Agreed?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u91	Is there no objection? Please sign up for questions. Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u92	Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, “Block of Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”. Mr. Sergey! You, if you inform at least the hall, and more the whole public, about the institute of inviolability, you have to tell Slovakia and the Czech Republic that it is eliminated when a deputy is present or is involved at the crime scene, or on the second day. But it does exist, write it down, please. So I would ask you to inform, not from the point of view of populism, but from the point of view of objectivity. Now second, I'd like to ask you, you've been talking about the procedure for so long when Kirilenka's first-reading project was proposed, so if we were to correct it, now we could make some adjustments. If we do not make any adjustments now, we are unable to do nothing in February. So I would vote in favour of the first reading, so to speak, but now I'd like to propose a crime scene, because it's not being introduced, and the question is, how can we really think about the rule of law?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u93	Please finish your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u94	How can we think about the rule of law, a corresponding institution of the Supreme Council? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u95	Thank you for asking. Regarding the countries I called, I said that there is no one in any way, so I need to, you know, listen to my words. As for the second question, the procedure, once again, I want to repeat that according to the procedure, the first reading, the so-called first reading, the previous approval, we will now vote. And so you, Mr. Anatolia, have the opportunity to make adjustments to the next session. Then again, the Constitutional Court, this is the procedure that exists today in the Constitution and in the Rules. So if you want to make any changes to the body of this law, no one will forbid it. But then the one that tells us: 155, 151, 146, 147 articles of the Rules, you have the right to vote 300 votes if these amendments are supported by the Supreme Council, then the Constitutional Court will be again.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u96	Prince Ruslan Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u97	Sergey Grigorovitch, good afternoon! This is Ruslan Knyazevich, a member of the committee you are in charge of. In this regard, I would like to clarify one question for myself. Sergei Grigorovich, what's going on now? Why do we now consider an appropriate one? the conformity of the Constitution with the previous and the possibility of sending only one of the bills before the Constitutional Court, which the Committee has considered. We've been looking at five bills with you, I think, and even they've been standing in the agenda. For some reason, we forget about each other, we turn one into a contract, and we want to say that we're swapping. It's like a legal situation that concerns another bill. Because according to another bill, it's clear and clear. There is a finding of the Constitutional Court, there is a decision of our committee. And why is this the first bill that was once alternative and not sent to the Constitutional Court? Now he wants to be directed again. But for some reason it is considered by jumping over other bills that are equally important. Because tell me, as far as the local elections are concerned, is this no longer an issue? And there are other questions that concern the same question. Please explain why you are now discussing a bill on behalf of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u98	Thank you for asking. You know, it's not like I'm personally putting things in order on a daily basis. I'm sure the Conciliation Council has decided that there is now a block of change to the Constitution. [[on MP's untouchableness]] Other blocks apply to local self - government. I am confident that on all the other Conciliation Councils, it has been decided that all these bills that passed the committee and there are no observations, except for the Presidential Council, should be put in the session room and sent to the Constitutional Court. So if the Conciliation Council would like to put these bills on local self-government today, I will also report them and we will vote in favour of sending them to the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u99	Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u100	Thank you. Well, first of all, I would like the head of the Legal Policy Committee to say that the introduction of any coma to the draft law after the return of the Constitutional Court requires a second appeal to the Constitutional Court and then two more discussions to the session. As for other states, I would also like the Head of the Committee of Legal Policy to say that there is no democratic state where there is a limited state, but immunity exists, the total abolition of the immunity of MPs is only in authoritarian and totalitarian states. And finally the third. As Head of the Legal Policy Committee, you don't care that the two bills that we are considering bring an internal conflict between the various rules of the current Constitution. And so this is another step towards creating a contradictory, internally contradictory Constitution, I don't know how this can be supported or ignored by the Legal Policy Committee. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the competence of the Constitutional Court does not apply to the search for collegiates.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u101	Thank you for asking. I would like to explain to the honourable colleague that before changes are made to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Legal Policy has no right to interfere with the body of the law, to change whether to give its opinion on constitutionality. These conclusions regarding the constitutionality of a particular law can only be drawn by the Constitutional Court. Therefore, we cannot give, in a relative way, read, please, the Constitution and the Rules. We are sent to the Constitutional Court and only the conclusion of the Constitutional Court can give us the opportunity before prior approval to approve it in the first so-called reading. As far as 1375 is concerned, this conclusion has been reached and we have the opportunity to vote and approve it in advance. With regard to other bills, we only endure the procedure: if it is faithfully addressed to the Supreme Council and is faithfully considered on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u102	Please complete your response.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u103	We're doing a technical function -- we're sending this bill to the Constitutional Court for conclusion. And as for other countries and our country, once again, I want to remind you who doesn't want to take off the parliamentary immunity, don't vote and show it to the world. If anyone wants to vote, he'll vote. What we can discuss here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u104	Question-or-question, please, Yuri Bogdanovich Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u105	Thank you. I have to take advantage of the possibility, and I have to make up for some things. Well, first of all. The Constitutional Court has the authority to consider a bill amending the Constitution only in respect of compliance with articles 157 and 158. None of these articles speak of studying the problems of collegiality when making changes to the Constitution. So this is the direct competence of the legislator and the legal committee in charge of constitutional matters. And the second. Well, open the Constitutional Court's decision, and you'll see that the smallest change that comes after the Constitutional Court's conclusion requires a re-approval after that - second approval of 226 - and then for the next 300-hour session. [[on the procedure for amending the Constitution]] [[on the conclusion of the Constitutional Court]] So do not deceive them. The Constitutional Court and the first reading require perfect law. Don't create new coalitions in the Constitution, there's enough of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u106	Well, it's not a question, I'm sorry, it's a clarification. If you can, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u107	No, no, I have to answer to my honorary colleague. So that's the decision that the honourable MP refers to. The decision of the Constitutional Court states that if the amendments to the previously approved Act on Amendments to the Constitution have been adopted, then they are sent back to the Constitutional Court. And if the Supreme Council has not voted in favour of these amendments, and it remains in the same form, it may vote in the final stage by 300 votes. So read the decision of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u108	Please sit down, Sergey Grigorovitch. Let's sign up for a discussion. We're discussing two draft laws at the same time. Stoyan Alexander Mikolaiovich, please. He's giving the word Chetchev Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u109	Dear Alexander Vladimirovich! Dear colleagues! Indeed, today society and the people, and our voters are awaiting consideration of two of the main issues of evil, namely, the rise of socio-standards and a detailed, principled assessment of the harmful phenomenon associated with the growth of young children. [[Pension, salary]] But unfortunately, the opposition. But unfortunately, the coalition tried to get us out of the way. The calculation was one, that the Party of the Regions would block the rostrum. The main task of Mrs. Timoshenko will then be to block the adoption of the Retirement, Wages Act, which the Government wants to do, and naturally to suppress the issue of the growth of young children. But we will vote in favour of this law. We voted in favour of him, in favour of withdrawing his inviolability, in 2007. It is a pity that neither BUT nor our Ukraine backed us up at the time. If we were to support and if we were to legislate, we would have made the law one for everyone, both for the President, and for the Ministers, and for the MPs, there would be no law today when the Prime Minister. when the President appoints governors without agreement with the Cabinet of Ministers, in violation of the Constitution. This is a boomerang for BUTU, which we did not then vote in favour of our law, in accordance with which we wanted to be inviolable from the President. If that were the case, he'd have his hand stuck to breaking the Constitution or not! And today, the President spits on the BUT faction! It was you who gave him the opportunity to break the Cabinet of Ministers today without signing, appointing governors, making arbitrary decisions against the Constitution! That's why I'm saying it again. Let's stop dealing with local problems and patch holes. Let us begin to adopt the systemic political decisions that are being addressed tomorrow, strategically. Let us systematically reform both the political system and the economic system. That is why we propose to remove the inviolability of both the President and the deputies. To date, both the President and the MPs are among the 46 million who are under the law. So no man can stand above the law. And that's not how it works. We're going to the election. The President is running as a candidate for the Presidents, and he is the only one out of law, outside the Constitution, above the law, over the Constitution, he is not reaching for the law. It's going to be wrong, it's not fair, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be. We therefore propose the adoption of the system law of Aleksandr Vladimirović Lavrinović. We invite BUT and our Ukraine to vote because you talked about it two years ago. And then there won't be any such nonsense as the President is rambling on the Constitution. I ask you to vote. Otherwise, boomerang again.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u110	Sergey Vladislavovich was involved. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich instead of the national deputy Soboljeva.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u111	Dear colleagues! Honorable Chairman and Honourable Voters! I'll say the following without undue politicization. Thank you for having responded with understanding that events that rocked the country last week should have received immediate response in this very room. I want to warn everyone, my colleagues, from political blackmail, from political slander, from wanting to salt the opponent or the opponent, or the opponent so that he can lower the rating so that he doesn't get the required number of votes in the election, we understand. There are political technologies. Ukraine is famous for such technologies, which today are not only surprising to Europe, but not only to the entire civilized world. So the two bills that are being considered are, as my colleague Cosemiakin has already said, a lacquer paper for this room. One bill on parliamentary integrity, which is parliamentary, rigid, straightforward, and clear. And after that vote, we're going to have 300 votes left in the room and that's it. And political corruption in this room will be brought to an end. And this will be the first step towards civil society. Everyone knows the sayings from where the fish rots and where it begins to be cleaned. The second bill, 3251, my colleague Viacheslav had stopped it more and he said quite correctly that, colleagues, this bill has a very long history. And so it doesn't turn out to be that we're going to vote and we're going to send this question back to a distant historical voyage. The faction will support both one and the other bill in order to demonstrate, we are in favour of having all the deputies on equal terms. And those who might be involved in some of the questions that got a special reaction last week, and those who may have done the slander. Once again, article 80 of Bill 1375 leaves us entirely with MP immunity. It reads: “People’s deputies do not have legal responsibility for the results of voting or expressing themselves in Parliament and its organs, except for those responsible for insult or slander.” Everything else, colleagues, we are really like our private citizens of Ukraine. The draft law, which removes positions that are actually the backbone of the institution of parliamentary immunity. The fact that national MPs cannot be held criminally liable, detained, or arrested without the consent of the Supreme Council. The deletion of these provisions means that I am telling our electorate that today, after the adoption of this law, we can bring administrative responsibility to bear. This is to impose a fine, to apply correctional work or administrative arrest, to conduct operational and search activities, to break a criminal case, to take precautionary measures, including to take precautions to prevent attempts to escape the investigation, to prevent the truth from being found in a criminal case, or to continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u112	Finish it, Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u113	Conduct investigative actions, such as arrest and interrogation as suspects, search, extract on the basis of the order prescribed by the law. The implementation of the bill after its adoption of amendments to other laws does not need to be implemented. It's a straight norm. Colleagues! The vote will take place in the voting room. The faction will support both bills in order to say sorry to prove the purity of the genre. We're here for everyone to be absolutely on equal terms. Colleagues, after the adoption of our law, which is close to absolute adoption, excuse me, 10 times think about what you're doing. One who, especially in the pursuit of political technology, wants to make his opponent, competitor, or opponent what was done last week. Once again, we warn against this.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u114	Matvienko Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u115	Ukrainian Republican Party “Sobor”, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” Block. I want to make my personal point of view about the bills that we're proposing to vote on today. First of all, I want to agree, obviously, that there is no objection in this room to the fact that national wisdom says a wedge is breaking out. But when they try to get the absurdity knocked out, it's obviously wrong, we get the absurdity squared. And it seems to me that if we're putting ourselves on a mission, I'm completely in solidarity with the majority in this room, that we need to review article 80, which is obviously worth looking at, and the mechanism of impeachment, which is obviously worth strengthening the responsibility of the judges, is not denied here. But then let's find a formula that eventually leads us to some common sense and gets 301 votes. Well, tell me, if we say we're not populistic, except for the popular elections today's discussion and the projects that we've put in place, I don't see anything. 301 votes won't be, and then we don't do anything else when we put water in our feet and try to settle something there. There are now specific objections. Obviously, I cannot agree with Bill 3251, which was introduced by the Party of Regions on the Institute of the Presidency. Guys, we're not talking about a specific president right now. We're talking about the state in general, we're talking about the constitutional system. What is being proposed today is an attempt at constitutional order, of disintegration in its entirety, of the absence of any authority, especially the power of the President's Institute. If we want to put the President in a more harsh position, let's look at the articles that relate to the mechanism of his impeachment. Then it will be clear that we are doing the right thing. It's not possible to confuse a deputy with the President, so that's a fair amount. And I think it's not serious when we're asking questions like that. As far as the MP's concerned. Of course, 80 articles must be reviewed, of course, and they must be brought to the most severe norm of any European or of the world's democratic state today. In all European democratic and world powers, there is an institution of inviolability. And obviously, you could find a compromise decision when we record that the MP is untouchable, but at the crime scene or on the second day he doesn't have that in touch, he can be arrested. And then we won't have deputies as the main weapon for the racket, storm the prosecution's office, take factories or act in some other way. And if we were to write that down, we would obviously be wise. And when we eliminate everything as proposed in the Kirilenka project, it means that no MP is in opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u116	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u117	Not even the central authorities, but who came to a particular city, village or region, will be locked in tomorrow's capacity to decide anything, because, unfortunately, it is the responsibility of all democratic institutions and democratic countries. I propose that today we move on to a compromise that will unite us all, and only then do so so that we do not engage in populism but really be a democratic state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u118	Smélová Svetlana Alexandrovna, please. He gives the right to speak to Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u119	Dear colleagues! We're cunning, we're cunning, we're cunning. I am completely in solidarity with my colleague, Matthew, who began to speak the truth, as opposed to all previous colleagues, if you will excuse me. Those who say they need to be detained will only be detained in February-month when the presidential campaign is over. That's not what you're talking about. This is another pyar action to distract us. This is one moment. The other one. I want to remind you of the 46th article of the German Constitution, which practically repeats our and something even more severe than ours, although here the colleagues say there is no inviolability, the only clarification that can be kept at the crime scene by the Bundestag deputy. I want to remind you of the 7th article of the Polish Constitution, which spreads problems of inviolability even to MPs who are no longer deputies and so on and so forth. Not for our country where legal nihilism, where there is total injustice, and we are talking about this all day long, to accept the right things. But when we're ready, let's accept it, but let's really adopt a bill that puts everyone's condition at the same level. So let's be honest and honest, 4 or 5 thousand judges will never give their colleague away, and the MPs will be happy to make a decision every ten times a day for the court to order. Don't we understand that? We understand, but we keep playing. I would like to quote my colleague from 91 articles of the draft Constitution, which we have to discuss today, we are now talking about the 80th, which is the 91st project: “The National MP, the senator is not legally responsible for voting or expressing.” But it doesn't matter. Next sentence: “A national MP without the consent of the Chamber of Deputies, a senator without the consent of the Senate cannot be detained or arrested.” This is written by a person whose faction or your group is the only one who supports it, the President of Ukraine is making such a project. And you're going against the President of Ukraine. I can't believe it. So that's not the way it's supposed to be. And one more moment. We're talking about ourselves here, that's good, we're, like, supporting the removal of the int touch with others. Regrettably, the judges are unable to express themselves. And I would like the presidential candidates to give their word. They too remain silent. At least on behalf of our presidential candidate, who will be sent to the Presidents in 15 minutes, Simonenko, I can state that he supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u120	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u121	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Respectable citizens, respectable colleagues! Frankly, it's a shame that the most important, the most difficult and legal, and the world-viewed question -- equality of all before the law -- becomes a hostage, and becomes a hostage, an elective slogan and an internal political or even internal struggle. I think if it wasn't, we'd have a real professional discussion, because this problem is not easy, and it is. So let's tell the truth: when they juggle the names of those countries that are or are not juggled, and we know that, they forget one thing: in Ukraine, until the delimitation, depoliticization and decommercialization of the legal and judicial system, and in other words, the selling law enforcement system, every person will not be equal to the law. Because it's not just the rules of the Constitution that define this for the MPs. We're not equal before the law, and we're actually untouchable with money bags. And you see, in Odessa, in Crimea, in other regions of Ukraine, if a crime is committed by the son of a deputy who is not untouchable, the local council, the son of a millionaire, or in Odessa, or in Crimea, where these crimes, where these children are? Across the border? Are you hiding? Therefore, the issue should be considered seriously, not in the form of electoral slogans. That's the first one. One second. The MPs are elected by people as representatives, well, anyway, they think our voters are choosing their advocates. People do not approach us when they feel good, but when they feel bad. And they're bad at being made by smug officials, selling militias, speed judges, corrupt prosecutors. Whom should we approach to protect their rights? To them. So, please, under the condition of a politicized, selling law enforcement system, who will seek the protection of the people? It's turning the Supreme Council into deaf people, when MPs, as it is for many today, are afraid to turn to someone, they're afraid to blame someone, because they're going to be targets for sales and lawyers and prosecutors and judges. But on the other hand, why I say it's an important question would need a professional conversation. But there is a social demand for a decision today. We, our colleagues, are to blame for the social demand that has arisen because of the filth when it comes to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u122	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u123	dirt, when it spreads to someone, it spreads to all of us, and we have to give an answer here. And in answer to that, the Lithuanian Block faction remains in the same position as it was for six months and a year and a year and a half and a half years ago, which is written, by the way, in our election program for the parliamentary elections. Equality before the law. There cannot be one person who has not been chosen and whomever one represents is superior to another. Therefore, honourable colleagues, the key position is “law one for all”. Not in the form of a slogan, but in the form of morality, world view, and order. That's why we're going to vote in favour of lifting the MP's in touch with everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u124	Herman Hanna Mikolayevna instead of the national deputy of Yaroschuk
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u125	Dear colleagues! Adam Ivanovich is right, and he is right, and the representative of the "Lituin Block" is right, saying that as a result of voting for drafts on the elimination of our inviolability, the MP will really be very vulnerable in his activities. But. Here, when we discussed this issue, people who know what the Ukrainian law enforcement system is said to me: “Oh, Mrs. Hanna, you will vote today and tomorrow you will be put down for drugs.” I say: “And who will believe that I am a drug addict.” “And then you will be talking in the investigation and in the courts.” But we don't count one. There's a system, there's a system that destroys a person, even if a person is innocent. But why do MPs and judges have to be protected from that system, and the average citizen has to be unprotected from that system, that's where the problem is. And when it comes to questions and examples of the fact that, in Germany, there are MPs in Poland and so forth, but there are also private people. There are rights and freedoms of real people. And we have the power to split up with the people. We have had the only division in our society – power and people of division for many years. And that's why the authorities are paying a lot of money. We don't want to vote here today in favour of the law on raising social standards. The government is untouched, the power of the liquor, the power of even the tram will soon enter from another entrance of the V.I.V.P. as if the authorities were driving in trams. Because power also enters the plane from the other entrance, and into the train from the other entrance. I'm saying, even on the subway, if power were to go on the subway, it would go on the V.I.V.P. entrance. This shows that there is a division between power and the people. And today, after voting for the annulment of the inviolability of both the President and the judges and the people's deputies, what Deputy Lavrinovich, Viktor Yanukovic and the entire Party of Regions are proposing, we will therefore take the first step towards overcoming the main divisions, the divisions between power and the average citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u126	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich. Katerinczuk Mikola Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u127	European National Party of Ukraine, Catherinechuk Mikola Dmitrovich I would like to begin by saying that it is a pity that this hall has ceased to hear common sense. And today I realize that decisions on these bills have already been made by governing bodies, factions, or by political leaders alone. And none of the national MPs today will be able to vote as determined, above all, by the parliamentary perspective for Ukraine. Do we have a stable democracy today? Did you forget 2004? And there are few people who have been persecuted, planted, even with parliamentary mandates. Are you saying that anyone who wins this presidential election won't cancel the polytrephobic and regain Kuchma's authority? He'll do it. Are you telling me that if we don't have a viable parliament, we're going to have citizens feeling more protected? No, that's not true. So I don't know, I'm going to address the people of Ukraine today. Look what you're offered. Okay, MPs are the last unworthy ones, they're the Darmoids, they don't do anything. But if there is no parliamentary-presidential republic, then there will be a procurator's republic, where everyone will find their place, it's a direct path to dictatorship. And that's why I went back to the European practice of parliamentary inviolability before we did the two bills. This means that when you move to work, at work, and after work. And he is relieved of his responsibility for his statements and the question of voting. Imagine: If we have problems with the majority today, after cancelling the MP's intrusiveness, how many valets will stand here to clean up MPs who won't be able to take part in the vote. And even better, to make the Supreme Council of Ukraine ineffective, because the President, he'll be protected, he'll be filing it with the Attorney General. And I am convinced that the Attorney General will never hold the President responsible. But what is the President? This is a guarantee of the constitutional rights and interests of Ukrainian citizens. None of the presidents did this, they just don't understand how to do it. Still, imagine him if he is detained every day. Do we have a high level of constitutional rights and interests for the protection of citizens? We created the rule of law. So don't be hasty, Your Honor, let's work out these two bills, we'll go into one bill as part of the European practice of restrictions on parliamentary integrity, and we'll continue to develop parliamentary democracy. There is no way that ghosts can be given to reducing, narrowing democratic rights and narrowing democracy in this country.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u128	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u129	So I would ask, Mr. People's Deputies, not to look at the position of your leaders today. Look at the future of parliamentaryism and the people you represent in this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u130	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovitch is transferring the right to speak to Mikola Vladimirovich Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, I would like to pay attention to the watershed that goes on in the discussions. Some national MPs seem to have mentioned their electoral promise and want to resolve it before the start of the presidential campaign. And other national MPs feel that we need to resolve in principle the issue in order to ensure that the responsibility of this system of authority and of each official is the same. So I would ask you not to divide the officials into those who promised to eliminate the parliamentary integrity of the deputies and those who did not. It is now quite obvious that this must be done for all. And I think that what we're willing to vote today is one and the other bill says that the question is how far has it gone, that it can't be postponed. I remind you, by the way, there were a lot of hot speeches here that in 2006, when the document was signed between Victor Yushchenk and then the leader of the opposition, Viktor Yanukovich, they introduced the inviolability of local council members, as you remember. [[I'd call it First Universal.]] And it took almost a year of fighting to convince them that it was absurd, absurd, and insane. And then we canceled that decision. Now, obviously, another abnormality needs to be eliminated. Why do we insist that this be extended to both the judges and the President? Because this has become a key “political weakness” for the President. Now he starts and finishes with this thesis, and he has all the deputies, and Kuchma, who used uncensored language, didn't blame the deputies as much as Yushchenko blames the deputies. And I think the border is already crossed here, and when the President can say that there are murderers and rapists, and they're all sitting in this session room, obviously he has to answer for what he said. How must the former deputy of the Diplomatic Security Service, who accused of treason, and as if he were walking, walking, and doing nothing? How must the Head of the Security Service, who showed a video, be responsible for what he said and not submit any documents to the Attorney General's Office? So in this irresponsibility, we've gone too far. And so I'm absolutely convinced that there should be a decision today, and this decision, no big deal, in three months, in two months, will be made. The main thing is that it will be accepted and accepted for all. And it's a good thing that today's presidential election company, it's a good thing that we don't know who will be president of Ukraine. And then we're going to prepare a good basis for the president's work so that the next president doesn't go around the world and humiliate his own country, and he doesn't humiliate the deputies, because the Supreme Council Institute, it's also an institution that represents Ukraine. By the way, then I'm not going to advertise evil walkers, because then there's nothing to come to the big business unless there's a parliamentary immunity, and all the big businessmen are going to be doing factories, not buying parliamentary mandates. Once again, our faction will vote for two bills, because this is the beginning of a great deal of order in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u132	Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u133	Dear colleagues! You won't believe it, but there's a law in this matter other than politics. So as far as law is concerned, the situation is so complicated that I don't understand what's going on. I tried to specify in the Head of my Committee on Legal Policy, but he didn't answer the whole, saying it was a matter of political relevance. The point is that Bill 1375, authored by the two Kirilenkos, was considered last year in this sessional hall, as was Bill Lavrinović and Janukovic, an alternative to this bill. According to Rule 226 the first bill was drafted and sent to the Constitutional Court. The other one wasn't picked up, so he was removed. Because, both by the decision of the committee and by the majority opinion of the deputies, he contradicts the Constitution of Ukraine for two reasons. First. We have already determined that there is no comparison between the annulment of judges, the President and MPs, because as far as judges are concerned, this question of Article 126 of the Constitution is settled in 96. As for the President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that 105 parts of the first article of the Constitution of Ukraine say that he is untouchable only at the time of the exercise of his powers. So the Constitution issued a special mechanism if he committed a crime of 111 articles so that the Supreme Council would take those powers away from him and try him on legal grounds. Moreover, if this bill says that any district court has to conclude, 111 gives such authority only to the Supreme Court. Think about what we're doing. We take it to the Supreme Court and hand it over to any district. But it's not about Yushchenk, it's about the status of the President, which is what we're calling this status. After all, we are fighting so hard for this position, for what? And the last. Dear colleagues, I'm paying attention to you. There's nothing to play with. We cannot now address the issue of referral to the Constitutional Court, and the question that the bill has already returned. No, let's put 1375 on prior approval. I understand that he will not be considered today, as appropriate, not enough votes. But I am paying attention to the session room, and I ask the presiding officer to refer to the fact that part eight of article 149 of the Supreme Council Rules states that the question of voting for the previous approval of the bill “On amending the Constitution of Ukraine” is voted by the names of the national MPs. Let them hand out their name cards now, each sign his own, and each person's face will be seen in these signatures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u134	Grigorovich Lilia Stepanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u135	Lilia Grigorovich, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear citizens, distinguished national MPs! In our session room light, and above the dome light. But I have the same impression as those who hear that we're all here together looking for a cat in a dark room, something that we can't find. Why is it that we have put this issue in the order of the day today because such circumstances have arisen? Or maybe we forgot that people told each of us not only during the election campaign, but during the meetings, hopefully we didn't stop going to our electorate anymore, we probably stopped because we forgot something. Today in this room, they want to do some kind of divorce, and I'm not me, and it's not my business, and it's the result that there's nothing further. Maybe it's enough fooling people. The point is that the lawyers who made a very detailed statement here, one bill that is supported and sent to the Constitutional Court, if we don't play dumb, we don't glue, and we really want to do our obligations, we have to start working on a bill that was considered by the Constitutional Court, a bill of two Kirilians who won the majority of the votes in the voting that worked. But we don't want either one, or the other, or the fifth, we glue the fool. European experience was mentioned here. Let me say a few words about European experience as well. So in those countries that called a powerful civil society a dictatorship of the law, not a dictatorship of the oligarchy and finally in those countries, both the first and the second, and the third, a powerful middle class. What we have today. Ukraine has just completed an era of primary capital accumulation. Those who first accumulated, that is, the dirty, dishonest law fear and either they hold the factions themselves, or they form a group of influences and come here to Parliament. That's what makes people the most. And in view of that, people want us MPs to be equal before the law, and there's nothing to worry about. We seem to have forgotten what people want. Please tell little Poland, a democratic country, one oligarch with an honest origin of capital. We have, open the law, the magazine “Comments” 666. In view of that, let's start with ourselves and not turn the President into a court of law. We took the touch from the local deputies. Now we're taking away the immunity from Parliament. Such a consistent position of the group “For Ukraine!” because we are for Ukraine. Who do you think you are?Oh, my God! That is why I urge, on behalf of the Group “For Ukraine!” to work for the Ukrainian people, not to serve 30 dozen oligarchic clans and their representatives in this Hall. Let's be honest with ourselves, we're voting for the bill!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Please, Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich, the closing statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u137	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues! Dear voters and respectable Alexander Volodymyrovich! Based on the conclusions of many of the legal deputies who have just been delivered from the Supreme Council of Ukraine's rostrum, I urge our faction, the parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” to insist that the 1375 bill is now put to the vote first. Since the procedure has long begun, it lasts about two years. The first stage has been completed and is a positive conclusion of the Constitutional Court. As for the second bill. The national deputies who filed it certainly have the right to ask such a question. But, dear fellows, and in this case perhaps even more, the distinguished Ukrainian voters, will now be replacing the abolition of the parliamentary integrity with the demand for the annulment of the President's inviolability. Thus today, the Ukrainian national deputies, motivated by the need to undo the President’s intactness, will keep this in touch. This is the outcome of today’s discussion. In order for it not to be, I propose that it be made clear, first of all, in order to resolve these issues under Bill 1375, which, in fact, removes today's parliamentary immunity from the national MPs of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, I, with your permission, will also say a few final words. Three positions. Position one, simple one of the speakers raised about the procedure. I want to remind you that these two projects have already been considered twice in the Supreme Council. For the first time, none of them were supported by the required number of 226 votes and the project that I was introducing today, and then I got a lot more than the previous one. After that, it was decided by the then coalition, which was still in existence, that draft law was passed the second time and received 227 votes. With regard to another bill, it was introduced, according to the regulations, in the next session, duly registered and considered today. This is to be understood when and how the rules of procedure were followed. And when it comes to the fact that the project is in some way contrary to the Constitution, I'm sorry, but that's ridiculous. Because it's actually being introduced to change the Constitution. And there are only the only restrictions that apply to what has been introduced into the Constitution with regard to the limitation of additional human rights, Ukrainian borders or the introduction of military action there, what is provided for in Chapter 13 of the “Introduction of changes to the Constitution”. The pain is nothing. The second position I'd like to say. What raised the question of why two and others were being considered? All draft laws amending the Constitution are included in the agenda for today. I'm certainly not sure we can all consider them, given the timing, but of course they will then be transferred to tomorrow. So this week all draft laws amending the Constitution will be considered. And appropriate decisions will be made. And the last thing I wanted to say. Of course, we can compare projects and express our views, which are more effective. But I would like to say that, obviously, citizens need, first of all, working MPs, who protect their interests, with appropriate instruments, not obedient, silent performers of the will of the ruling political power. I think we need to think about it and look outside the windows of this house today, what is the state of law enforcement in our country today. The discussion is concluded. We're moving on to making a decision. The first is the vote, as was included in the schedule of meetings, and as reported in Bill 3251, which was reported by National MP Lavrinovich. Please enable the “Council” system. I'm voting on the draft Act amending the shares. Constitution No. 3251 of Ukraine concerning the inclusion in the agenda of the session and the referral to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. [[12:55:02]] For – 390 Decision taken. [[Applause]] The factions, please. Region Party – 171, "Club of Timoshenko" – 150, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 19, Communists – 27, "Club of Lithuania" – 19, non-fractional – 4. The draft Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine is voted on in accordance with 155 articles of the Constitution. [[Registration number 1375]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:55:50]] For 206 The decision is not taken, the bill has been withdrawn. The factions, please. Region Party – 1 “Bulk of Timoshenko” – 153, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 49, Communists – 0, “Block of Lithuania” – 0, non-fractional – 3. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. Dear colleagues, we have an hour left to work. I'd ask your permission to work this hour and then two hours off. I'm putting to the vote the suggestion that we finish the morning plenary session at 2 p.m. without interruption. Please identify yourself. [[12:56:55]] For 347 Decision taken. We're continuing our work. The draft Act on the establishment of a minimum of living and minimum wage in 2010 is announced for consideration. [[second reading]] Reported to the head of the Committee on Budgeting, Dr. Mikola Ivanovich. Please. As told by Láško Oleg Valeriyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u139	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Budget Issues, at its meeting on 20 October, reviewed the proposals made by the people's deputies for a bill on the establishment of a subsistence minimum and a minimum wage, adopted on the basis of a plenary session on 6 October 2009. [[Registration number 4762]] It should be noted that according to the Ministry of Finance, the overall need for additional funds to implement the bill would amount to some 71.3 billion. The amount of money is compared to the amounts included in the State Budget project for 2010 or a third of income for the following year. In addition, the Ministry of Finance notes that, given the state’s financial potential in the context of the economic crisis, the proposed changes will not be provided by non-inflationary sources of financing for additional expenditure, lead to an increase in government budget deficits, an inflation index and a decrease in the real income of the population. The bill is therefore not supported by the government. In the case of the adoption of this bill as a whole, it is necessary to make fundamental changes to the 2010 State Budget project indicators, particularly with regard to the sources of additional budget expenditure. During the drafting of the second reading bill, there were 13 proposals from members of the people, who are essentially repeating the appropriate size of the subsistence minimum and minimum wage provided for in the government bill "On the State Budget 2010". Based on the review, taking into account the need to maintain balance in the budgetary system and to ensure macroeconomic stability, the committee supported such proposals by the National Deputies and proposed to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill to be adopted in a second reading and as a whole as a law in an editorial table proposed by the Committee on Budget Issues. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u140	Thank you, Oleg Valeriovich. Dear colleagues, the second reading procedure. Let us now consider the proposals made by the legislators. First amendment of National Deputy Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich The committee's proposing a rejection. Is the National MP insisting? Please, the microphone of the People's Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u141	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, think about it! The law currently under consideration is called “On the establishment of a minimum of living and minimum wage”. So what? Well, let's just say that's the law. And there will be no change to the State Budget 2009 Act. And the 2010 change is going to be later. So I suggested that I change the name of the draft law and put it this way: “To make changes to Ukraine’s 2009 State Budget”. Why? Because right now, if we were to automatically adopt these rules, we would immediately put them in the State Budget Act and we would do it after signing them. So, Oleg Valeriyovich, you understand this well that if you only adopt this law, and then the change is blocked, this law is just a blank paper, an empty declaration that gives nothing. So I don't understand why they didn't count the name I proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u142	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich! Article 3, the “Final Position” of this law, which we are considering, provides for the Cabinet of Ministers, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Affairs to prepare and finalize draft laws on amending the 2010 budget, the 9th year and the 2010 State Budget to take into account the size of the subsistence minimum and the minimum wage provided for in this law, i.e. your proposal, is actually included in the Final Positions. [[paragraph 2]] Therefore, the committee suggests that the amendment of colleague Karmazin should not be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u143	Amendment No. 1 of the Karmazin People’s Deputies shall be subject to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:02:00]] For the Correction not supported. The second amendment is the national deputy of Pavlovsky. The committee suggests partial consideration. Please, does Pavlovsky’s national deputy agree with the committee’s editorial work?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u144	I agree with the decision of the Budget Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u145	Please, Deputy Martínjuk. Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u146	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! Since we will now consider each of the amendments that is being fully copied by our draft law adopted in the first reading so that we do not take the floor further, I ask you to consider this statement and the next one to put every amendment that the committee has supported to the vote on the support of the session room. Because what the committee did was they just rewrote, or they did the suggestion of a colleague of Carmazin. Only a colleague of Carmazin wanted to make changes to the 2009 Budget Act, and here our colleagues from the Profile Committee copied the draft State Budget Act for 2010. So I ask you to put every amendment of the committee in support of the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u147	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Please, the Chechetov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u148	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues! Adam Ivanovich is absolutely right, because what he is proposing to agree on is not on his head, he turned the whole law upside down and changed the substance of the bill. The purpose of the bill is being cooled down. The decision should therefore not be taken by the Committee but by the Chamber. This law that awaits millions of people. Therefore, please put to the vote every amendment, not so many, dozens of amendments, we voted by 300 amendments, each amendment, regardless of whether it is counted, not counted, let the room vote. The House will take responsibility for the content of the law and its implementation, or for the majority of the deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u149	Please, Oleg Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u150	I would like to point out from my colleagues' comments that the committee has supported the proposals of the people's deputies that will ensure a balanced budgetary system and macroeconomic stability. As has already been noted, the Ministry of Finance estimates that the overall need for additional funds to implement the bill will amount to nearly 72 billion dollars. And given the state's financial capabilities in the context of the economic crisis, the proposed changes will not be provided by non-inflationary sources of financial and additional expenditure, leading to an increase in the government budget deficit, the inflation index, and a decrease in the real income of the population. If that's what you want, then vote. If you want people to get real wages and pensions, increased not much, but increased, then you need to support the committee's decision, not populism, not break the country's financial system, and end up putting millions of citizens at risk of not paying wages and pensions. You want to go back to the year 98 when people don't pay their salaries and pensions after six months? Well, we'll have that if we go for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u151	As for amendment number two, Zarubinsky People's Deputy Oleg Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u152	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, I think we need to look at the table without agitation or propaganda. It's a second reading. And there are no calls, no slogans, no references to "universe mind" and so on. I respect both the committee and the colleague of Paul’s, who made his proposal, had the right to do so as a subject of the legislative initiative. Similarly, the Supreme Council has the right to insist on the voting of both the counted and the partially considered and the rejected proposals. And using another 30 seconds, I'm just going to say, well, how much does this bill give, more specifically, require an extra billion. Earlier they said 20, then 50, then 30, now 72, will soon find that the United States budget is needed to implement the bill. You really need to define yourself. And the last moment I'm stressing again, without emotion, please, we have to vote for all of these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u153	Dear colleagues! We don't actually have the first reading, we have amendment number two, it's partially counted. I put to the vote amendment number two, National MP Pavlovski in the committee's office, please identify yourself. [[13:07:33]] For-31 The decision is not taken. Correction is not supported in committee editing. Amendment number three, People’s Deputies Kožemiakin, Carmazin, Blackwolf, Hungarian The committee recommends that we consider it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u154	Budget Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u155	The committee recommends that we consider it. Since there is a denial of national MPs, Amendment No. 3 applies to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:08:07]] For-163 The decision is not taken. The amendment is not accepted. The fourth amendment, the national deputy of Pavlovsky, is recommended in part by the committee. Whether Pavlovsky’s national deputy insists that his editorial opinion be based on the vote or on the wording of his colleagues. Please, it's the people's MP's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u156	I agree with the drafting of the Committee on Budgets.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u157	Thank you. A vote is taken on amendment number four of Pavlovsky’s national deputy in the committee’s editorial form. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:08:49]] For the 15th. The decision is not taken. No correction supported. Amendment number five, National Deputies of Cosemiakina, Carmagazine, Blacksmith, Unguriana
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u158	Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u159	The committee suggests that this amendment be taken into account. Amendment number 5 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:09:19]] For 168 The decision is not taken. Correction not supported. 6 Amendment of the People’s Deputy of Pavlovsky The committee recommends partial consideration. Does the National MP agree with the committee’s drafting, or is he insisting on his editorial work? Please microphone of the Pavlovsky National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u160	I agree with the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u161	I'm good. Amendment 6 of Pavlovsky’s national deputy is put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:09:53]] For-46 No correction supported. Amendment No. 7 of the People’s Deputies of Cosemiakina, Carmagazine, Blacksmith, Unguriana The committee recommends that it be considered. I'll bet on the vote of Amendment 7. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:10:20]] For 165 Correction not supported. Amendment No. 8 of the Pavlovsky People’s Deputy. The committee recommends partial consideration. Does Pavlovsky’s national deputy agree with the committee’s editorial work, or does he insist on his editorial work?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u162	I agree with the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u163	Thank you. The voting shall be amended as number 8 in the Committee's wording. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:10:56]] For a hundred and Correction not supported. The 9th Amendment of the People's Deputies of Cosemiakin, Carmazin, Blackwolf, Ungurian. The committee recommends that we consider it. Amendment number 9 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:11:25]] For a hundred and Correction not supported. Amendment No. 10 of the Pavlovsky People’s Deputy. The committee suggests partial consideration. The Pavlovsky National MP insists on his editorial work or agrees with the committee’s drafting?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u164	I agree with the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u165	Pavlovski’s national deputy agrees with the committee’s decision. Amendment 10 of the Pavlovsky People’s Deputy is put to the vote. Please Be Determined [[13:12:02]] For-157. Correction not supported. 11 Correction of People’s Deputies Kožemiakina, Carmagazine, Blacksmith, Unguriana The committee recommends that it be considered. Amendment 11. shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:12:28]] For-160. No correction supported. The 12th Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Pavlovsky, Kožemyankin, Carmazin, Blacksmith The committee recommends that we consider it. The vote is amended as follows: 12. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:12:57]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Amendment No. 13 of the People’s Deputies of Cosemiakina, Carmagazine, Blacksmith, Unguriana The committee recommends that we consider it. Amendment 13. shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:13:26]] For a hundred and Correction not supported. So we've considered all of the amendments made to the draft law. None of the amendments are supported. Thus, we have an editorial adopted in the first reading. Please contact the Deputy Minister of Finance. Is there agreement of the Supreme Council to give the floor to Vladimir Makarovich Matviychuk for argument? Is there a denial of national MPs? I'll put it to a vote. Who Supports? I beg you not to scream! The Supreme Council Rules provide for consideration of all amendments after which the draft law is voted on in the second reading. In this case, those who have made amendments and the national deputies of Ukraine have the right in relation to each amendment. So please, I would like all of us to comply with the Supreme Council Rules. Whoever supports the proposal to give the floor to the Deputy Minister of Finance prior to the adoption of the law, please vote. [[13:14:54]] For 348 And no problems. Volodymyr Makarovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u166	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! Dear national deputy Zarubinsky! I want to talk to you and I want to tell you, no bill you've filed has demanded an extra 20 billion dollars or 50 billion dollars. Your first bill needed an additional 500 billion dollars, and this, in the current year, 8 billion dollars. And next year, against the draft budget that you're looking at, 71 billion dollars. There's no other number! I want to assure you, distinguished national MPs! There are no non-inflationary sources of funding for these extra expenses! There's no income in the budget to fund this kind of expenditure. Since it will not be possible to make such loans, such additional expenses can be provided only by reducing teachers, doctors, cultural workers, children’s preschoolers, schools, clubs, kindergartens, and so forth. In total, 1.6 million budget positions will have to be reduced to 45 percent! [[B in m in s a l in]] I think every budget worker's soul will shudder today if this bill is passed, and everyone should expect their reduction from their place in crisis! Dear National Deputies! Today, I think that many employees of industrial, agricultural, service industries will also shudder at the adoption of this bill in a crisis. Because such an increase in minimum wage is simply not possible. This can only be done at the expense of reducing employees in businesses, making a pay-as-you-go balance between professionals and workers in the simple profession. Of course, such a decision would lead to bankruptcy in a number of businesses. Dear National Deputies! If it were to be assumed that the budget could be funded by the National Bank’s machine and the increase in inflation to the heavens, it would not be possible for businesses to do so. Today, all 14 million pensioners must be crying out, “Don’t take our pennies out of inflation. ” And the adoption of this law will lead to this. Dear National Deputies! Our people, our hardworking people, do not deserve to be held hostage in this way. [[B in m in s a l in]] And the last. This bill does not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine. Since article 95 of the Law provides that only the State Budget Act can determine the amount of expenditure, only article 95.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u167	Please be quiet. Replica of the Zarubinsky People’s Deputy
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u168	Dear Deputy Minister of Finance! Ukraine’s shadow economy accounts for 50 percent of the World Bank’s estimates. Stop, stop stealing, and cross the gray business! [[B in m in s a l in]] Stop stealing and hiding your commercial unpersonal structures! 50 percent in the shadow economy is where money should go to the simple people who are begging today when you're not begging at all. And there's more. Reduce the cost of supporting the President of Ukraine by a billion dollars because Kuchma had less money. Shorten 17 percent of the cost to Kabmin, which you laid in 2010 in crisis conditions! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. All those who were to take the floor spoke. Since none of the amendments are supported by the Ukrainian people's deputies, I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and generally as a bill of the Law on the establishment of a minimum of living and minimum wage. People's deputies are requested to identify themselves. [[13:20:08]] For 254 [[B in m in s a l in]] Decision taken. Please use fractions: Region Party 172, Timoshenko, 0, Our Ukraine-People's Self-Defense 33, Communist 27, Litvina Block 19, non-fractional-3. [[Applause]] The draft Law on the Moratorium on raising prices and tariffs for medical devices and medical devices is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 3426]] He will report to the First Deputy Head of the Health Committee, Pierre Vjacheslav Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u170	It's okay, isn't it? Deeply-respected Alexander Vladimirovich! Deputies of deep respect! Draft Law on the Moratorium on the Promotion of Prices and Tariffs for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices No. 3426 of 02.12.2008. Submitted by the Ukrainian People's Deputies Simonenko and Matveyev on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Improved by the Health Committee and prepared for second reading on reduced procedures. The bill included 31 amendments to the six people's deputies: Matveeva, Kruc, Karpuka, Karmazin, Zozuli, Prederiya, which were considered at the meeting of the Committee on 12.10.2009. Edited by Matveyev, Krutsa, Predéria were taken into account in part or in full. The outcome of the review of the amendments is shown in the right column of the comparative table. They concerned the registration of prices for all medicines and medicinal products, and the registration of prices for medicines and medicinal products was recorded at the prices of 01 July 2008, as well as editorial amendments. Proposals to determine the pricing of medicines and articles of medical importance for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine have been taken into account and the establishment of a price registration body that will register and amend the Ukrainian Drug Act to determine the body that will deal with the registration of price controls. Karpuk, Carmazin and Zozuli's offer has been rejected. The Karpuk proposal concerns the fixing of import prices as at 01 July 2009. Rejected because 15 bracelets have already been placed at prices of 01 July 2009. I mean, drug prices are artificially high. Karmazin's proposal, on behalf of the Cabinet of Ministers, to secure prices at the level of 01 July 2008, was rejected on instructions that prices should be justified and that price registration should be introduced. Proposal to establish a programme for the development of domestic production of essential drugs and development programmes. The network of public and communal property for the implementation of fixed-price drugs has been rejected because of the development of new ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u171	Dear colleagues! Let us now consider amendments to the legislative initiative. Amendment number one of the people's deputies, Matthew. The committee suggests that we take it into account. Dear colleagues! I'm asking you not to help me conduct a plenary session. We work exactly in accordance with the Supreme Council Rules. Is there a objection to amendment number one of the people’s deputies, Matthew? Is there no objection? Let's move on to Amendment Two.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u172	Let's go to Amendment 2. People's deputy Karpuk. The committee's proposing a rejection. People's deputies agree? Please, the microphone of the people's deputy Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u173	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues, of course, this law, like the previous one, has a question in society. Because there's a lot about the price of drugs. There's really no drug price regulation. However, I would like your attention, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Yet, we need to consider that we have about 20 percent of all the pharmacies in the countryside and that we have almost half of the population in Ukraine. And these pharmacies are non-profitable. There's a lot, a lot of spending, and there's a little bit of implementation. Thus, the adoption of this law will strike at the provision of medicines to the rural population itself. This should also be taken into account. This is the kind of pharmaceutical system that's close, the most people who need help the most. So if you don't consider the mechanism to provide these, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u174	Thank you for the argument. Amendment No. 2 of the People’s Deputies of Karpuk is to be voted on. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:25:54]] For-24 The decision is not taken. Correction not supported. Amendment No. 3 of the Zosuli People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Is the National MP insisting? Don't insist. Amendment number 5. Oh, I'm sorry. Where's the fourth one? Viacheslav Grigorovich, what do we have after 3 is 5 amendments, huh? Did the fourth just fall out, remove the subject of the legislative initiative? It's a mistake, isn't it? National MP Pierreius, amendment number five. The committee's proposing a rejection. Don't you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u175	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u176	No, it doesn't. Thank you. I'm sorry, you have a strange situation with the amendment numbering. Then it's amendment number one again. People's MP Matthews. But there's another point. With the numbering of the amendments, the committee was apparently somewhat disturbed. In fact, is the amendment of the people’s deputy Matthew on page 8 concerning the Final Provisions denied? There's no objection. Amendment number two on the same page. People's deputy Krutz. Is there a miscalculation? There's no objection. Amendment 3 on this page of the People's Deputy Carmazin. Partially counted. Is Deputy Carmazin in agreement with the committee? Not good-looking. Please, the microphone of the People's Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u177	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Our nation needs to think about its future, its development. That is what this amendment is about, which is written down in the government’s commission. First. To submit to the Supreme Council the National Programme for the Development of Domestic Production of Lifesaving Medical Devices and the Development of the National and Communal Property Pharmacy Network, which will ensure the implementation of medicines at government fixed and regulated prices. This is paragraph “b”. In paragraph "a", I foresee the government's mandate to implement a price policy on domestic and foreign medicine to ensure the level of government-fixed and regulated prices for medicinal products of domestic production at the level of the state-of-the-art on 1 July. I mean, when those prices went up. And the third. It is the commission of the Antimonopoly Committee to carry out price checks on medicines for domestic and foreign production and to comply with the requirements of legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u178	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u179	I'm done. Because there's a strange situation when the dollar was falling, the drugs weren't cheap, and the gasoline wasn't cheap. The Antimonopoly Committee is in this direction. That's what all Ukrainian citizens are talking about. Why we don't write down these government orders, I can't understand because they don't meet their requirements. We have to write this down. Thank you. I'd like to support my corrections.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u180	Amendment No. 3 on page 8 of the Karmazin People’s Deputy reads the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:29:34]] For-22. Correction not supported. Amendment 4 on page 9. [[People's Deputy Karpuk]] The committee recommends a rejection. There's no insistence on a national MP. Amendment number 5 on the same page is counted by the committee. [[The People’s Deputy Pierre]] The Supreme Council is recommended. There's a denial, isn't there? A vote is taken on amendment No. 5 of the People's Deputy Pierre. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:30:15.]] For-22. Correction not supported. So we've considered all the amendments, some of them included. I am voting on the second reading of draft Law 3426 on the moratorium on the promotion of prices and tariffs for medical devices and medical devices. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:30:50]] For 284 Decision taken. Now, please, Viacheslav Grigorovich, the view of the committee on the possibility of now adopting this draft law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u181	The Committee recommended.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u182	Wait a minute! Show the factions, please. The MPs insist. Region Party - 164, "Timoshenko Yulia Block" – 58, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 15, communists – 27, "Litvina Block" – 19, non-fractional – 1. Please, Vejacheslav Grigorovich, on the possibility of approval as a whole. As for the possibility in general, this bill is now being drafted.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u183	That means recommending adoption as a whole. The Committee recommended the adoption of the law at its meeting as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u184	It's about voting on acceptance as a whole. I am voting on the adoption of draft Law 3426 on the Moratorium on raising prices and tariffs for medical supplies and medical supplies. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:32:15.]] For 242 The law has been passed in general. The draft Ordinance on the Use of Additional Measures to Sort Up Individual Expenditures of the State Budget of Ukraine to Increase the Size of State Social Standards and Guarantees (second reading) is being announced for consideration. reports Omelchenko Alexander Alexanderovich. Registration number 5115. Please, Omelchenko Alexander Alexandrovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Alexander Alexander, will you report? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u185	Please report, Alexandre Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u186	Good afternoon, fellow MPs! Ladies and gentlemen, the draft decree was voted on the basis of 5115 at the previous meeting. It was suggested that the hall consider it urgently, and there was a protocol commission. At nine o’clock today, I, as chairman of the committee, have convened an order committee to consider one question: Draft Decree 5115. A committee of 12 attended the meeting. There were no two deputies from “Our Ukraine”, four from BUT and one from the Region. So the committee has considered this question, and it's written to you at the signing of the committee head's proposal. Considering that the committee didn't consider the amendment, they're in your hands, they're in my hands, they're in my hands, and there's an offer to look at it in the second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u187	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Let's move on to the amendments. The first amendment is the national deputy Bodnar Olga Borisovna. Yes, this is provided for in the Rules. Yuri Anatolyevich, please do not interfere with the session. The first amendment is the People's Deputy Bodnar. It says that the draft decision is based on the first reading and rejected as one that does not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine. Please, the people's deputies of Ukraine, determine by vote on this amendment. Amendment No. 1 shall be put to the vote. [[13:36:23]] For 158. Correction not supported. Amendment No. 2 of the People's Chamber of the Republic of Sinchenka, which proposes to complete paragraph 1 of the first paragraph of the draft decision before the words “Office of the Ministers of Ukraine” with the words “recommend”. Amendment No. 2 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:36:57]] For-24 Correction not supported. Amendment No. 3 of the people's deputy, Jojik. In paragraph 1 of the draft decision, the words “the employees of the National Bank of Ukraine, the relevant State institutions and organisations” are proposed to replace the words “the governing body of the National Bank of Ukraine, the leaders and their representatives of the relevant State institutions and organizations”. Vote number 3, please specify. [[13:37:37]] For-28 Correction not supported. Amendment No. 4 of the People's Chamber of State: in paragraph 1 of the draft resolution, the words “and as a result of the reduction of the pay fund of state-owned monopolies according to the list established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine” shall be deleted. Amendment number 4 shall be put to the vote. [[13:38:13]] For the 10th. Correction not supported. Amendment No. 5 of the People's Deputy of Gordijenko, in paragraph 1 of the draft decision, after the words “the heads of the Kyiv and Sevastopol City Administrations and their Deputys” add the words “the heads of the District State Administrations”, the words “the employees of the National Bank of Ukraine, the relevant State Institutions and Organisations” to the words “the governing body of the National Bank of Ukraine, the heads of the Structural Units and Administrations, including the territorial National Bank of Ukraine, which will ensure its activities”. The words “and as a result of the reduction of the fund, the payment of the work of state monopolies according to the list established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine“ exclude. Amendment No. 5 shall be put to the vote. [[13:39:18]] For-28 The decision is not taken. Amendment No. 6 of the People's Deputies of Carmazin. Please turn on Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u188	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I suggest in this amendment that you write the first paragraph in this text. During the week since the adoption of this decision, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has submitted to the Supreme Council a draft law on the introduction of mines into the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2009 in part of the adoption of the budget allocations of the State Budget of Ukraine, providing for the release of funds resulting from the reduction of twice the maximum wage and corresponding payments and charges: the President, the Head of the Supreme Council, the Prime Minister, the Vice-Presidents, the National Deputies, the National Security and Defence Board, the Secretary of the President, the Office of the Prosecutors, the Office of the Supreme Council, the Registrar of the Supreme Council, the Secretary of the Cabinet, the Ministers and their alternates, the deputy heads of the other central bodies of executives and their deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u189	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u190	In addition, the State-owned monopolies pay fund, according to the list established by the Cabinet of Ministers, is aimed exclusively at increasing the expenditure of the State budget of Ukraine aimed at increasing the size of state social standards and guarantees. Please vote in favour of modifying this project item. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u191	Amendment No. 6 of the People’s Deputy shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:41:14]] For-16 Correction not supported. Amendment No. 7 of the Karmazin People's Deputy. Do you insist, Yuri Anatolyovich? Please, the microphone of the People's Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u192	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm addressing everyone who's in pain today, who's talking about the fact that there's been an increase in the size of the steering apparatus and so on. I propose that paragraph 1 of the draft regulation be supplemented by paragraph 3 by making it available in such a form. Within a week of the adoption of this decision, the decision to reduce by 30 percent the labour force, the central executive authorities and the local authorities and other public authorities. So there will be no ten, eleven, twelve deputy heads of ministries, as is now in many cases, as before, are now in the Kiev City State Administration, where there will be no 18 deputies. Anyone who does not now support this amendment means that this vachanal will continue. I'm asking you to support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u193	Amendment No. 7 of the Karmazin People’s Deputy takes the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:42:38]] For-57 Correction not supported. Amendment No. 8 of the People's Deputies of Carmazin. Yuri Anatolyevich, do you insist? Don't insist. Thus, the honourable colleagues, none of the amendments made to the draft law, received the support of the Ukrainian national deputies. I'm voting for adoption in the second reading and generally as a law. Please stop voting. For reasons of vote Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u194	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine! ” Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! Unfortunately, we haven't been expelled from the test of this project, and we've been talking about a completely ridiculous rule. Again, all employees of the relevant government agencies and organizations, all employees, in all branches, the National Bank of Ukraine and all employees of state-owned enterprises, are subject to wage cuts. Because everyone's falling into a two-time state-owned pay fund. Thus, instead of giving good thought to reducing the wages of officials, we beat down the common people who work in public institutions, in organizations, in public enterprises. Corrections made by responsible deputies on this issue are not currently included in the session room. And to adopt this motion in this way, I think it's irresponsible. This is an anti-State approach. So I suggest we postpone consideration of this issue. And yet, let's focus on those amendments that are now rejected, or the second one again.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u195	Thank you for your insight. Dear colleagues, I ask you to be responsible for your decision on whether or not to support this draft decision. It is up to the vote on the whole draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the use of additional measures. [[on the organisation of individual expenditure of the State budget of Ukraine aimed at increasing the size of State social standards and guarantees]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:45:05]] For-166 The draft decision is not supported. It's off-limits. In factions, please: Region Party 140, Timoshenko Yulia Block 1, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense 1, Communist 23, Litvina Block-1, non-factional zero. It is announced before the review of the Draft Ordinance on State regulation of consumer prices, which is of significant social importance to the population. [[Registration number 5094]] Reported to the head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Gayman Oleg Eisikovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u196	The second reading was followed by a draft Ordinance on State regulation of consumer prices, which is of vital social importance to the population. This bill was considered in the second. in the first reading. And the ruling of the committee, the decision of the committee that took place on 15 October 2009 to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider the draft regulation in second reading and to decide on the bill by voting. Six suggestions were made, including four: one partial and one rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u197	Thank you! Let us now consider the proposals made by the Ukrainian national deputies. Amendment No. 1 of the People's Deputy Papiev. The committee recommends that we consider it. Any objections to the MPs? There's no objection. Amendment No. 2 of the People's Deputy of Konovaluka. The committee recommends a rejection. National MP Konovaluk insists? Don't insist. Amendment No. 3 of the People's Deputy Papiev. The committee recommends that we consider it. Is there a denial? None. Amendment No. 4 of the Karmazin People's Deputy. The committee recommends that we consider it. Is there a denial? There's no objection. Amendment No. 5 of the Karmazin People's Deputy. The committee counts in part. Is there a denial of the subject of the legislative initiative? Please, the microphone of the People's Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u198	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! For many years, I have been asking the question of whether the Head of the Supreme Council should approve and publish a consolidated register of the original acts of effective legislation on the subjects of knowledge of the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as part of their monitoring of the implementation and analysis of the practice of applying the laws adopted. This needs to be done in this law, this is paragraph one. Item two. Ensure the classification of the primary acts of the current legislation of this register and information and search systems of Ukraine's legislation and legislation according to the classification of Ukrainian legislation. And the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy to ensure that this decree is implemented. I'd ask you to do that, then it would make sense. I'm noting that we've passed previous laws, especially on drugs, and we've already passed a law that's disgraceful to the state to let you know, to promote importers first, and secondly, we've done everything we can to increase the value of drugs. Do not make these mistakes again! Amendment No. 5 of the Karmazin People's Deputy. She has been warned by the National MP Martinyuk. Please, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u199	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. It is a pity that such a attentive and qualified parliamentarian wishes to give the Head of the Supreme Council powers that he has no right to exercise. Only the Supreme Council and only the Supreme Council can determine the subject matter of committee knowledge, not by their own authority as Head of the Supreme Council. So let us not translate into the Head what is not in accordance with the law and the Committees Act, our Rules. And as for the previous law, Yuri Anatolyevich, do not act as a protector and lobbyist of those interests where your interests seem to be gone. I know you're working in another cell, and why you're doing this business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u200	People's deputy Karmazin's replica. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u201	Dear Adam Ivanovich, to your knowledge, I am neither in business nor in business. But I want you to know that you've turned now, well, as you always do sometimes, because I taught you when you were the first deputy, how you should read the laws. But you haven't learned yet. Why didn't you learn? Because it says here that the Head of the Supreme Council is to authorize and publish a written, written register of the original acts of effective law by subject matter of knowledge, and the subjects of the committee's knowledge, we have approved with you a decree, and we entrust it only to confirm the register of original acts, by all means, Adam Ivanovich. I mean, you don't have to twist it, Adam Ivanovich. I understand you're starting an electoral campaign today. But I'm telling you clearly that it needs to be started wisely, thoughtfully, with the people winning, not just participating in this campaign.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u202	Amendment No. 5 of the Karmazin People’s Deputy to the editorial board of the Ukrainian People’s Deputies is subject to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:51:11]] For-9 Correction not supported. Consequently, Amendment 6 does not apply to the vote because it simply changed the numbering. So we've considered all the amendments. I take into account the decisions that have now been adopted by the people's deputies of Ukraine, the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on government regulation of consumer prices, which are of vital social importance to the population as a whole. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:51:55]] For 211, no decision is taken. The decree is rejected. Please, by the factions: Region Party - 164, "Julia Timoshenko Block" - 0, "Our Ukraine-People's Self-Defense" - 0, Communists - 27, "Block of Lithuania" - 19, non-fractional - 1. Dear colleagues, the morning plenary meeting continues for 15 minutes. A draft regulation on non-derogation of work rights and pay in the context of a financial and economic crisis is announced for consideration. [[Registration number 5095]] Reported to the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Hara Vasil Georgievovich. Dear colleagues, we have eight minutes, if we're done for this time, we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to inform you that the committee, unfortunately, did not consider the bill at its meeting, as we had no opportunity, we proposed to move to its consideration on Thursday, but left it for today, but each of the people's deputies individually considered it and signed it, of the 11 members of the Committee signed it. Therefore, I think we can, in principle, consider it in the light of the Committee's consideration. Second. I would like to tell you that the Committee did not support it in its first reading during its consideration of the Committee's meeting. And I am deeply convinced that we have done the right thing, although we are a social committee and I explain why. First. Listen to the paragraph. It is unacceptable that a citizen's rights to work and to pay in particular should not be violated. Suspension, suspension of production, reduction of workers due to reduced wages. People are good people, call at least one enterprise where there are no similar violations in relation to the economic situation that has taken place in our country. And the second, very dangerous point. The Cabinet of Ministers, the Housing Fund, local government authorities if there is a violation of the labour rights of employees of privatized enterprises to break sales contracts and return to the property of the State or to local authorities. But in our view, this is the goal of a misplaced transfer of property. 95 per cent, I am convinced of this, is the minimum of enterprises that have reduced production, reduced staff, reduced wages. And only three points, you can agree with him. The only one who writes what the Attorney General is supposed to do. “The Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine shall ensure the systematic supervision of the observance of the labour rights of citizens and, in the event of violations, take immediate action in the event of violations of the labour rights of citizens.” I therefore ask you to support the primary decision of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour and not to support this absurd decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u204	Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the proposals made by the Ukrainian National Deputies. Amendment No. 1 of the People's Deputies of Carmazin. The committee suggests that we take it into account. Any objections to the national MPs? None. Is it? There's no objection. Do you object to your amendment? Do you mind? Amendment No. 2 of the People's Deputy. Do you object to your amendment? So Deputy Carmazin denies his amendment. Please explain why you changed your mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u205	Yuri Carmazin. I, the honourable people's deputies, am now in agreement with the opinion expressed by the national MP Hara, it makes no sense. First, we must decide whether we support the committee’s opinion or not. Because there is now a proposal for the committee to reject the project. If we don't reject it, then let's look at the amendments. I would ask you this logic so that we don't waste our time. We're sitting here without lunch. All right, Alexander Volodymyrovich, I understand. But an amendment was made, more faithfully, a proposal by the committee head on behalf of the committee. They came to the conclusion that this legislative act gave absolutely nothing. And the Attorney General's Office, the law says what to do. And then all the corrections are lost if the committee's decision is now supported. If not, then we will rule it. Thank you for the opportunity to express yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m0.u206	In the second reading mode, the Supreme Council of Ukraine cannot make such decisions. Now we're going to say, and we're going to vote by supporting or not supporting, and it's going to be very fast. Amendment No. 1 of the Karmazin deputies shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:57:09]] For the 10th. The decision is not taken. Correction not supported. Amendment No. 2 of the People's Deputy of Konovaluka. The National MP does not insist, and the Committee suggests that it be rejected. Thus, given that none of the amendments have been made, the original text of the draft regulation on non-derogation of citizens' rights to work and payment of work in the context of a financial and economic crisis is put to the vote. [[Registration number 5095]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:57:48]] For-47 The decision is not taken. The decision is not supported. Dear colleagues! We have three more minutes to announce to you that we will start an evening plenary meeting according to the schedule, considering the appointment of the next election of Ukrainian national deputies. And the next question is information from the Attorney General's Office and the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Please be there at 4:00. The morning plenary session is closed.
