ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Council" system. [[15:59:24]] [[Registration of Ukrainian National Deputies]] Cards were registered in the 408 National Deputies Sessional Hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the National Programme for Reforming and Development of Housing and Utilities for 2004-2010 is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the Deputy Head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy Popov Alexander Pavlovich. Please, Alexander Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u2	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I would like to remind you that on February 4, 2009, two bills were voted in the room in the first reading, which refer to the future share of the state-wide programme for reforming and developing housing and utilities. The first bill was submitted by a member of the Party of Regions, number 2399, and the following by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, number 3063. Our committee formed a working group that prepared these laws for second reading. The group included representatives of the Ministry, namely, members of the Supreme Council, representatives of our committee, representatives of professional sector associations, and local self - government bodies. The specifics of the submission of the material that you now have on the bill are that, according to the recommendations of the General Legal Authority, we present you two bills, a working group has been defined, taking into account the recommendations, which is the main bill under number 2399, and the provisions of bill 3063 as a result of amendments to the people's MPs are being amended as amendments to the first bill. So we had 43 bills, more faithfully, and 37 of them were taken into account in whole or in part. The chief legal office called for a bill without notice and at the committee meeting on 20 May unanimously voted to send a second reading and adoption of the bill as a whole. I'm asking you to support the committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u3	Are we gonna go after the amendments or what? Dear colleagues, there are no comments to put to the vote on acceptance in the second reading and in general as a law? I am voting on the proposal of the Committee on the Adoption of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Universal Programme for the Reform and Development of Housing and Housing for 2004-2010 for adoption in the second reading and in general as a law. [[Registration number 2399]] Please vote. [[16:04:09]] For 354 The law is passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u4	Dear colleagues, we can thank you all for adopting a very important bill to address not only the housing sector but the whole of Ukrainian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u5	Please, Minister Kucherenko Alexei.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u6	Thank you, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I am equally grateful for the support of our joint bill, and I want to say that this is exactly the same case that we are together, both the government and the opposition factions have understood each other and have compromised, and have done better for our housing and utilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u7	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, the committee requests that the draft Law on Scientific Parks be postponed for further processing. Is there no objection? Agreed, yes. Thank you. Samuel Catherine's Symphony.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u8	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I don't understand anything. At the committee meeting, the Committee was redrafted, decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider the matter. If there are any other problems, it's a different matter. But if that's just what you're working on, then you have a committee, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Is there any other offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u9	Dear colleagues, let's do it this way, because the observation is perfectly logical. I will put to the vote the draft Law on scientific parks in the second reading. Registration number 0956. To postpone the consideration of this law, according to a letter signed by the chairman of the committee and the author of the bill, Yuri Karacay. Well, if the Supreme Council doesn't support it, we'll look into it. I put it to the vote on the transfer. [[16:06:37]] For 282 Decision taken. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Measures to Prevent and Reduce the Use of Tobacco Products and Their Harmful Effects on Public Health is being introduced. [[on bringing certain provisions into line with the Framework Convention on the Fight against Tobacco]] Head of the Committee on Health Care of Bacheyev Tetjana Dmitrovna Here, even the Chief Legal Authority has been calling for no notice at all. So why don't we vote him now? Well, please, Aunt Dmitry.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u10	Dear President, distinguished members of the people! Act 2110 has been prepared by our committee for second reading. In simple language, the purpose of this law is primarily to place an aggressive political backdrop on tobacco companies in our country today, as well as to strengthen control and responsibility for the violation of this law. But according to statistics, you've already heard on the first reading that we have a huge number of people smoking, which is over 19 million people, which is 40 percent, and older children under 18 are about 35 percent. The total number of tobacco deaths in Ukraine per year is almost 100,000 or 13 per cent of total deaths. Think about it: 98 per cent of the cancer deaths of the larynx, 96 per cent of the deaths of lung cancer, 75 per cent of the deaths of chronic bronchitis and emphysema are due only to prolonged smoking. 63 per cent of Ukrainian children aged 15 already have experience in smoking. As a result, about 37 per cent of our adolescents finish school with already overcrowded smokers. This situation is also due to the lack of legislation in Ukraine that would severely address these issues. I am therefore grateful to all the people's deputies and public organizations who have actively helped us to finalize this draft for second reading. The Committee has tabled 121 proposals for final drafting of the bill. In the preparation of the second reading bill, 64 proposals were taken into account: 34 were edited, 7 were partially taken into account and 16 were rejected by the Committee. On 29 May, we had already received an amendment from the People's Deputy Paul Costenko, but unfortunately we could not take it into account because it was already a scheduled delay. Although it is to be noted that this amendment has been incorporated into article 13 of our bill. The table of amendments has been amended not only by Act 2110 but also by the Act on State regulation of the production and treatment of alcohol of ethyl, equine and alcoholic beverages, tobacco products, as well as by the Code of Administrative Offences. Our committee has changed the title of the bill that you have the opportunity to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u11	Please, let's do this. Are you all right, Aunt Dmitry? Dear colleagues, the committee worked hard on the law. Most of the total amendments are included. Is there no objection to putting to the vote a proposal by the committee on the approval of the draft law? People's deputy Beales, please, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u12	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I apologize, but do I have a personal question for you? Will you close the chicken in the Supreme Council? After this bill is passed, will you close the chicken in the Supreme Council?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u13	You know. That there has long been such an arrangement and a decision that it is forbidden to smoke in all the premises of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Tomorrow we'll go with an inspection with everyone who wants to. Respectful colleagues, other warnings, and just comments? Please, Prime Minister Alexander Billowol.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u14	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, the Ministry of Health supports this bill in the second reading and in general because it is based on the warning and use of tobacco in our country. This will preserve the gene pool of our nation. Thus, the Ministry of Health has a hundred percent support for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u15	Dear colleagues, the proposal for a second-reading committee is put to the vote as a bill of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Measures to Prevent and Reduce the Use of Tobacco Products, Their Harmful Effects on Population Health (for bringing certain provisions into line with the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, Registration No. 2110). Please vote. [[16:12:38]] For 345. The law is passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u17	All right, let's get to it. Dear colleagues, we have now considered and should consider a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislative acts to carry out prior documentary checks at crossing points across the customs border. The committee asked for a copy of the document. At the same time, there is a decision by the committee on the adoption of the law in the second reading and, as a whole, as a law, however, that the legal administration did not comment on the document. So what are we going to do? Vote it or move it?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u18	So let's do this: I'm going to put the transfer vote on tradition. If we don't support the Supreme Council, we'll be making decisions. I would like to vote on the motion for a committee to postpone the consideration of draft law 2766. Please identify yourself. [[16:14:03]] For 299 The bill has been postponed. A draft Law on Social Dialogue in Ukraine is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Papiev Mikolaajovich. And there's also a transmission letter. I'm voting on a motion to postpone the draft law, this is a draft Social Dialogue Act in Ukraine. [[1440 registration number]] It's about transfer. [[16:14:57]] For 295 The bill was postponed. Adam Martinyuk, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u19	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Volodymyr Mikhailovich and his distinguished colleagues, each of you who attends a meeting of the Conciliation Council, knows how there is a fierce, violent struggle to include a bill in the debate. That's the first one. The other one. I'd like to know who's proposing to transpose the bill because they're making proposals and all the more so that it's a second reading, it's not an author's bill anymore, it's already a committee bill and so on. Therefore, please let the committees that make proposals insist that consideration be given, and then, in the course of consideration, they withdraw their proposals no longer need to be allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u20	Thank you for your observation. Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u21	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! In response to a perfectly fair remark from our colleague, I answer the following. We voted in favour of the transfer. Why did we vote for the transfer? We don't have a 12th amendment. She doesn't have voices in her room. The law in this regard may be unacceptable. We need the law, we understand what we need. If there is no law, the law. The law is being rejected and there can be no further consideration in this session. Further consultations are needed for the 12th amendment. That's it. Therefore, if it is now being shot, the faction will vote in favour, but the authors insist that it pass. That's it. If this amendment goes through, there will be no vote in the voting room, because three factions will not vote for it. Let's do some more consultation, it's legally necessary and necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u22	Yuri Carmazin. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u23	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'd like to point out that we're not going to get out of this conflict if we just take out the bill. The bill needs to be thoroughly worked out, and that is why I would ask you to give your commission, Mr. Golovo, to the relevant committees, which are related, including the Committee on Legal Policy, because of the novels laid down in the bill, where 3 new articles were added after the first reading. They will declare unrepresentative about a hundred U.S. trade unions and their associations, which are not part of a single proper trade union. "Right" is what I'm saying. So in order for this to not happen -- and we already get these calls from people and these calls, I'm tired of answering them -- I want us to give this dialogue to start now, but first at the level of experts, a few committees, not one, because there are serious questions. It's all about the Social Insurance Fund from temporary loss of employment, the Social Insurance Fund from accidents.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u24	Mikhail Papiev. And we continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u25	I am deeply grateful to all colleagues who have expressed themselves on this bill, and I would like to draw your attention to the following. It's a very complicated and specific bill. The point is that his working group, which consisted of representatives of all Ukrainian trade unions, all employers’ organizations, and the government. Each article was adopted by consensus. When the working group voted and approved the entire bill and all the articles, a statement was made today by a union that made comments. A social dialogue needs to start with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So today, we can't break the minds of one, at least one, but of a professional organization. Let's have negotiations, consultations, and bring this bill to the next plenary week so it can get at least 400 votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u26	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts on this state situation that took place in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So let me tell you how we will continue to work, in accordance with the Rules. If the committee proposes to consider the bill and it is included in the meeting schedule, it can only be withdrawn by decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of its consideration, that is the first. And secondly, if the chairman of the committee at the meeting of the Supreme Council first proposes a bill for consideration and then writes one-on-one a letter of motion about the repeal of the bill, that will not be taken into account. Now I have two letters of appeal from one committee again. They insisted on including the session, and now they're revoking these bills again. I think we should stop making people laugh. So let's be unanimous in that decision. Everything included in the schedule will be considered. And yet, I think this will take away any reason for communication in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And now, dear fellows, we are in line for a draft law on first-hand measures to prevent the impact of the global financial crisis on the farming sector. At the same time, I am reading a letter that I received: “In the order of the legislative initiative, I have registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law on first - priority measures to prevent the impact of the world financial crisis on the breadth sector that was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the first reading of February 17, 200, the current year. In view of the fact that the bill has lost its relevance, I ask you, in the order of exclusion, to remove the day-to-day question concerning the second reading of the bill 3560." For us. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? In order to maintain regular cleanliness, I will now put to the vote to adopt it in the second reading and generally as a law. If the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not support it, it will be withdrawn. There's just no other way out. I am voting for adoption in the second reading and in general as a bill of the draft Law on First Instance Measures to Prevent the Impact of the World Financial Crisis on the Breadwork Sector. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:21:55]] For the The law is rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Since we are finalizing the second reading, we now have a very complicated bill on time, and we need to determine here what position the Supreme Council of Ukraine is in. This is a draft law amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine. I'll be right there, just a minute. This is Bill 3560. He's not on the schedule, he's in the daytime. So I'd like to have your attention. [[B in m in s a l in]] What? Excuse me, excuse me. It's different for me. 2709 – Amendments to the Ukrainian Budget Code, draft law. So to see how ready it is to be considered right now, I'm going to put a vote on this bill. It's on. To be considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine today. If not, then we will return to the matter tomorrow. So I'd like to have your attention. I am voting on the proposal for a review now by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Budget, registration No. 2709, please vote. [[16:23:40]] For 210 I'm asking the faction leaders to hold consultations so that we can return to this law tomorrow. Dear colleagues, we have a decision to make. What decision will be taken is the case of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But in the next plenary week, we need to look at the basics of budgetary policy. And we need to know on what basis to demand from the government a document that we call the Budget Resolution. You know very well what this is about. Please, Baby.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u27	Oleg Laszko, Yulia Timoshenko, Deputy Head of the Committee of Budget of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I ask the public first to know which factions did not vote for us to consider this Codex Budget. Secondly, this budget code, which is distributed in the hall and prepared by the Budget Committee for second reading, gives local communities, villages, cities an additional 12 billion dollars of resources. We have 200 dollars a month on the country's FAP today, no greens, no bandages. This budget code solves this problem, we do not have kindergartens to repair, and this budget code provides money to repair kindergartens. We have no reason to maintain houses of culture and repair public roads, and this budget code leaves in the local budgets the entire transportation congregation, the environmental congregation, the congregations of the earth, and so forth. What are we not voting for? And tomorrow, we're all going to go to the polls and tell them we're going to do something for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u28	Thank you. They've traded. From the faction one man said, Alexander Pecklesenko and we will work. These accusations lead us further away from making decisions, respected colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u29	Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of the Regions. Vladimir Mikhailovich! I fully share your proposal that we need to know exactly on what basis we are developing the 2010 budget. And we don't need a new budget code, we need a good budget code. One word “new” does not mean anything. In addition, colleagues are well aware that the Budget Code does not provide a billion dollars or a single bracelet, it creates conditions and does not provide money. If you want to give money to schools, meet the demands of the Party of the Regions, make changes to the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u30	Dear colleagues, let's demonstrate that we're educated people. Please, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u31	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I support your idea completely, to demonstrate that we are educated people, first. Secondly, to demonstrate that we are law-abiding people. Thirdly, this is one of the major, if not the main, economic document of our nation. A more important document than the Budget Code, after the Constitution, does not exist in the State. We just got, literally, 600 amendments to this code and they're offering to accept it, so let's just stop. Because we are about to adopt the code, as we passed the laws in December 2008, and now every day the Cabinet of Ministers is making proposals to repeal the laws he proposed. He will not escape that code. On Tuesday, next plenary week, we will return to the discussion when we get to know him. Today, the Codex has just been adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u32	Eugene Kirilchuk, please, as a reporter on this matter. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u33	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, if we have considered 600 budgets at the level of the Minister's Cabinet over the past few years, the code provides for us as required by the Constitution, the budgetary process down to the top. We're going to have to consider at this level the budgets of rural, rural and urban councils. So let's not stop this process. We accepted the first reading in December of last year, and since December of last year, he has been ready for the second reading. All the members of the Budget Committee have received comparative tables several times, but all the local councils, all the financial administrations and others have made many more amendments because of 603.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u34	Dear colleagues! I'm asking you not to run, you'll come, you'll sit here and tell me what he's saying. That's the first one. And the second. On the Conciliation Council, we made this decision, and we agreed that when the bill is prepared, we would bring it up for consideration. That's the first one. The other one. I fully agree with the fact that we need to get to know the MPs about this bill. And the third. Dear colleagues, critics all, I would like to draw your attention to the consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, including me as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, so that we can consider the main directions of budgetary policy, the government's report on the implementation of the 2008 budget, and in the current year, who took it out of consideration? You took it off the table, and now you're looking for someone to blame. So let's say we didn't do what we had to do in our time. They've broken all the standards. Now, we or should consider this document, if the Supreme Council does not support it, then at an old base, let us immediately, for the next plenary week, the Cabinet of Ministers gives us the corresponding basic directions of the Budget Resolution. So this is a proposal that comes out of the Conciliation Council’s decision: Today, to get to know the people on Friday, or tomorrow, to consider changes to the Budget Code. Is there no objection? Thank you. I am voting for a return to the consideration of the draft Law on amending the Budget Code now. Please vote. [[16:30:57]] For the 220. There's still an offer that we'll be looking at first tomorrow -- that's enough. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 153, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense – 47, Communists – 0, Litvina Block - 20. Yes, thank you. We're moving on with our work. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? We should now consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act. The reporter is Sergey Teryohin. Who will report? So tell me, how can you keep working?Oh, my God! I'll put it to a vote on the transposition of this law, if not, I'll put it to a second reading vote and generally as a law. You can't support it. The bill will be rejected. I am voting on the postponement of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act. [[Registration number 3444-D]] [[16:32:52]] For 184 The decision is not taken. Who will report from the committee? Please, dear fellows! I will now put to the vote a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act. [[Registration number 3444-D]] Please vote. [[16:33:45]] For 178. The decision is not taken. I would like to vote on re-reading the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act. Please vote. [[16:34:12]] For-191 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The draft Order on the Conservation of the Kiev-Pecher Lavra complex and the further development of the National Kyewo-Pecher Historical and Cultural Reserve, by Vladimir Aleksandrovich Yavorowski, is under review. Dear colleagues, since we still have a huge number of documents to consider, can we consider them in a simplified manner? Huh? I'm voting on this proposal. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u35	Come on. I'm ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u36	I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[16:35:00]] For 178. Decision taken. Please, Volodymyr Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u37	Dear colleagues, our constituents! I want to warn you right now that no one has any specific suspicions, there is absolutely no religious, more interfaith relations. The Committee on Culture and Spirituality, which represents all the factions that are in our Ukrainian Parliament, held a field meeting in Kiev-Pecher Lavra. It was all very publicized in the press. Which called us to go first, to make an exit meeting in Lavre. The thing is, in February, for three days, there were UNESCO representatives, two UNESCO representatives who were studying the question, you know, that Kiev-Pecher Lavra and our Sofia are listed on the UNESCO security special list. You know, UNESCO doesn't have any in it, it doesn't have tanks, it doesn't have airplanes, it's like protecting the unique memories that are in the world, it's basically an authoritative organization that just tells the world that some country has amazing planetary memories. And of course we can be proud of what we have under the same number as Kiev-Pecher Lavra and our Sofia and claims to be the candidate of the Andrian Church. But when we get to know the situation today, we're just convinced that what's going on, and that's exactly what UNESCO's representatives are convinced of, so they can in July months, if we don't vote today, we won't accept if we're the highest, higher legislative authority that we don't take this decision, in July months we can just get kicked off this list. I want to remind you that there was one single example in UNESCO's biography -- when they threw Afghanistan out, the Taliban during this Afghan war destroyed their unique monuments, damaged them during the war. This was the only example in UNESCO history. You can imagine when that's going to happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u38	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u39	That's why we thought of a very calm normal approach so that now the government, the executive power, could intervene in the fate of the Kiev-Pecher Lavre. Such a signal from our legislators will usually allow us not to be thrown out of it in July. Unfortunately, very little time, I just couldn't tell you much more, but I would very much ask you and the committee is asking you to support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u40	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss the draft decree? Please sign in. Sign up. May I have the name of the people's deputies on the board? Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u41	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Of course, it was hard to understand what was involved in the decision he had taken, asking the committee to accept it. Well, that's my understanding, we have to protect Kiev-Pecher Lavra from attacking the various woe-stricken people of this acquisition of Ukrainian historical culture, Ukrainian historical heritage. And actually, if that's what this is about, then of course the faction will support and urge the Supreme Council to vote in favour of this project. I understand that maybe the Party of Regions won't vote because they favor the destruction of the Ukrainian heritage. But, nevertheless, maybe this time they'll make an exception and still support it. And the examples of another state of Afghanistan, of course, are good, but I think our voters need to understand that the language in this situation is that a committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is calling for the support and protection of those monuments of architecture that make up the heart of the national heritage. Of course, this is the Andrian Church, which now needs immediate intervention by the state, outside of which there has actually been a serious crack and here natural conditions have intervened and placed to support it. The same is true of Cave Lavra, where cave keepers of Cave Lavra, in an effort to make a completely unnecessary contribution to the refinement of the so - called Lavra’s paws, damage and destroy the historical monument. So I urge you to support the decision and vote unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u42	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u43	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” A decision is absolutely necessary. It's very sad to see those neglected corners when you're in Kiev. In recent years something has been done, but we know that the gate is broken down and the entrance gate is moving, a fence built in Mazepa's day. And we need to do something about it. Regrettably, I have been familiar with this decision and it is the organizational arrangements for the creation or transfer to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism of Kiev and the establishment of a new Supervisory Board with the introduction of experts in the field. The preservation of the cultural heritage will not be resolved. There must be funding, as well as funding for the money that is being invested in this Lavra, because there are so many tourists here every day, enough prices for flowers. And I just don't see where that money is going. At the same time, we really need to have an active program of conservation and preservation not only of Kiev-Pecher Lavra, but of my colleague and of the Andrian Church. Because I've been asking a few questions, there's virtually formal receipts coming in. Surely a national program is needed to preserve the cultural monuments of the Ukrainian people that are included in UNESCO’s list. We have several. And that action by Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko is very well heard. And these things really need to be developed at the state level, done at the level of the state programme, and provided with decent funding that will make a difference in the flow of tourists. This is the first tray. And I would like to say that I would suggest that we set specific deadlines for the development of a new Master Plan and develop and approve the State Conservation Program. Because if we just write in general, we're not going to see any master plan and no program in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u44	Catherine Seminalic, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u45	Thank you very much. The Ministry of Culture and Tourism is something to do. There is work to do to rebuild our homes, our palaces of culture, our truly cultural heritage. If we just do what the previous colleague said, then the Kiev-Pecher Lavra is going to be the same thing that happened with tourism. I've only passed on tourism to the Ministry of Culture, it's practically gone. With the world's best legislative base, we don't have tourism. What kind of tourist flows you're talking about, if these flows go only one way -- Turkey, Spain, Cyprus and so on. And so the transfer of Kiev-Pecher Lavra, this complex to this ministry, is very dangerous because it's really this monument that's being stored in UNESCO and protected by UNESCO, that this monument could just disappear as entire industries disappeared. And there's more. Colleagues, do you think we don't understand the subtext of this bill? Do you think we don't remember the trampling of horses when you drove the clergy and the Orthodox out of the churches? It is you who are preparing your main offensive to our Orthodox Church, to our spirituality, and thus to legitimize it by law. You will say: “The law has been passed, and that is why we will do so. I'm asking everyone, you're all turning to God, to the church as it's supposed to, so please take a bath in your souls, and especially I'm turning to the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u46	Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u47	May I have the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vladimir Yatsuba? Yatsuba.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u48	Vladimir Grigorovich Yatsuba, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to understand what's going on. Ukraine’s Ministry of Regional Development and Construction has been in charge of the development and rescue of Lavra for 4-5 years. Today, this is a step toward halting the reconstruction and losing everything planned by three governments according to Lavra’s order. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am addressing you. Take that question off the table, it will stop the salvation of Laura, the Saint Laura in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u50	Thank you. The statement has been completed. Please, Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u51	Dear colleagues, first. In my opening statement, I immediately said that there was no attitude toward religious and interfaith matters. The point is that today, Laura is being forgotten without a system. It's already happened that offices are being built there directly and simply. Today, Lavra is in charge of Chernewsky, the city’s authority. Because of this, what badness did we plan on passing on to the government and thus saving it? Because of this, I'm just asking you very much, please make up your mind, but don't make up what's not in this regulation. Nothing religious. And when Yatsuba starts talking about what, with the transfer to the state, under the care of the state of Laura, will stop her restoration. Mr. Vladimir, I can't understand what's happening to you. What's more, the ministry you led is under Sofia, and Lavra's under Chernewsky. That's why we want to hand it all over to each other. Why invent things that are not there? Thank you. Check it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u52	Thank you. Vladimir Yatsuba, please. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u53	I then insist that the Ministry of Regional Development, at the plenary meeting, report on the programme that was developed over the past five years after the reconstruction and preservation of Saint Lavre to make it clear to everyone what is being done there at the expense of the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u54	Dear colleagues, the draft decision has been discussed. At the same time, in accordance with the committee's decision, I will put it to a vote, on the basis of that, please. But I'm drawing your attention, dear colleagues, if we want this decision to be effective, we need to work with the lawyers. First of all, if we decide to transfer this property from municipal property essentially to the state to the field of knowledge of the Cabinet of Ministers, then we should no longer write the assignment to the Kiev City Council. One more moment. I'd like to ask the drafters to pay attention. How to interpret the text “renewal the personal composition of the oversight board of the Caver’s historian. The Kyevo-Pecher Historical and Cultural Reserve has replaced government officials with professionals in the area of cultural heritage.” So let's write her who. You can just recommend it, but you can totally do it. And including when we issue a task here, and the Kiev City Authority is gone, because we recommend handing it over to the property. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to take it as a basis and I'm going to take this project seriously. If the Supreme Council makes the right decision. I'm voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Order on the Conservation of the Kiev-Pecher Lavra Complex and the further development of the National Kiev-Pecher Historical and Cultural Reserve. Based on the base. [[16:48:34]] For 221 May I have your attention, please? “For” – 221, not adopted. I'm betting on voting for re-reading the draft regulation. [[Registration number 4378]] For the ugly first. [[16:49:02]] For 225 The decision is not accepted. Dear colleagues, please don't shout! I'm asking you to calm down. I'm asking the committee. Please! The factions, please. Region Party – 0, “Timoshenko Block” – 152, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 54, Communists – 0, “Litvina Block” – 19. Please! The committee is working on taking into account what has been discussed. The wording will be clearer -- we'll go back to the consideration. Next. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Certain Issues of Import into Customs and Registration of Vehicles Act. [[on International Environmental Standards]] Registration number 4386. Please vote. [[16:50:07]] For-198 The decision is not taken. I would like to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Radio Frequency Act. [[on ensuring the efficient use of radio frequency resources]] Registration number 4531. Please vote. [[16:50:39]] For 254 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the National Deputy of Ukraine Moroko Yuri Mikolaiovich. Coroner is the deputy head of the Transport and Communications Committee, Kruk Yuri Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u55	Dear colleagues, your attention is requested by a bill amending the Ukrainian Radio Frequency Act. The objective of the project is to improve the efficiency of the use of Ukrainian radio frequency. [[Registration number 4531]] It is proposed that two amendments be made to the law: first, to allow the redistribution of the frequency of one technology used between the communications operators, according to their joint application. The need for such a change is due to the fact that most of the radio frequencies are historically engaged in the use of radio-based special-users: the army, the BSS, the police and so on. Therefore, the frequency of issuance to communications operators was uneven across both ranges and regions. As a result, many technologies have produced a multicolored chessboard, where several operators have many small plots in the frequency field. This results in ineffective use of frequencies, as much of the resource goes to protective intervals between these sites. It would seem simple to conclude that all communications operators should be scaled up, streamlined, beneficial to the State. But this is not provided for by law. The bill proposed by the authors solves this problem. Part two of the proposed changes: To grant the operator of the link the right to redesign of the licence in the event of its reorganization by dividing or separating. This is in line with the provisions of the Economic Code and will primarily enhance the capacity of communications operators to optimize their organizational and financial efforts to develop the linkage of a new generation in a crisis and a severe lack of investment. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the provisions of the bill are in line with the recommendations of the International Union of Electricity, Telecommunications and European Union legislation. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this bill as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u56	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Kruk Yuri Borisovich, the committee's decision, please let us know.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u57	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Transport and Communications considered at its meeting on 3 June this year the draft Act amending the Radio Frequency Act on the effective use of radio frequency resources. Registration number 4531. The Committee has indeed determined that the main purpose of the bill is to ensure the effective use of radio frequency resources. The bill therefore amended article 34, “Recast of licences for the use of Ukrainian radio frequency resources”, and article 46, “Recast of permits for use”. The Chief Research and Expert Office supported it. He believed that the bill could be adopted as a basis. The Cabinet of Ministers supported it, and the Ministry of Transport and Communications, together with the National Communications Management Commission, supported it without comment. The Committee therefore decided, at its meeting, that the bill should be adopted as a basis and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u58	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss this bill? Who insists on the discussion? I can't see. I am voting on a proposal by the Committee on Adoption on the basis of the draft Act, registration number 4531, to amend the Ukrainian Radio Frequency Act on ensuring the effective use of radio frequency resources. I'm reminding you, registration number 4531. Please vote on the basis. [[16:55:23]] For 367 Decision taken. The committee proposes that it be accepted as a law as a whole. Is there a denial? None. I am voting for a second reading proposal and, in general, a bill amending the Ukrainian Radio Frequency Act on ensuring the effective use of radio frequency resources. Registration number 4531. Please vote. [[16:56:06]] For 361 The law is passed. I am announcing a draft Act amending Ukraine's Land and Forest Code for Conservation of Forests. [[Registration number 2063]] The rapporteur is Deputy Minister for Environmental Protection, Movchan Mikola Mihajlovich. Correspondent is Secretary of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Tkac Roman Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u59	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill is designed to limit the removal of land where forests are found for non-forestry purposes. Forests are the national wealth of Ukraine and, by their destination and location, usually perform water protection, protection, sanitation, health care, recreation, aesthetic, education and other functions and are a source for meeting the needs of society in forest resources. Forests in Ukraine, regardless of where the main target categories are growing and regardless of ownership rights, form a forest fund for Ukraine and are under the protection of the state. In recent times, local executives and local self - government authorities have decided to remove areas of forest land, change their targets, grant, primarily for individual and residential buildings, gardening, and so forth. The bill proposes to amend the Forest Code, the Land Code for the removal of forest areas, regardless of their area, solely by decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I ask you to support this bill to ensure that forests are preserved under land privatization conditions. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u60	Thank you, too, sit down, please. Roman Volodymyrovich. Committee decision, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u61	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners! Your opinion is proposed a bill amending the Ukrainian Code of Land and Forest. [[Registration number 2463]] The bill provides for the granting of exclusive rights to the administration of land and forest areas owned by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, thus depriving the local government and local government authorities of appropriate powers. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations at its meeting on March 31, 2009, reviewed the bill and notes the following. The bill severely restricts the authority of local self - government authorities and local executive authorities to manage the land’s forest areas. For example, a decision by the Cabinet of Ministers is now required to rent 5, 10, 15 hundred grasslands of the forest foundation. Next. Exclusion of paragraph 5, article 31 of the Ukrainian Forest Code, which defines the powers of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the district of Kiev and Sevastopol of the City of State Administrations regarding the transfer to property and the granting of permanent use of land areas, is not accompanied by an appropriate amendment to part 4, 5 and 6, article 122 of the Ukrainian Land Code, which defines the authorization of these authorities. There is also a conflict of rules, on the one hand the authority of local government authorities and local self - government authorities regarding land management in forest areas is limited, and on the other hand they are obliged to ensure the granting of land for forestry purposes, which are kept in stock for the permanent use of a state forestry enterprise. The committee noted that the bill would not address the main objective of the development, conservation and development of the forests of Ukraine, but would create additional obstacles. Without proper authority, local authorities and local governments will not be able to care for the expansion and conservation of forest areas. In view of the above, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations proposes a bill for, for, the preparation of, the subject of the legislative initiative. [[Registration number 2463]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u62	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a need to exchange ideas, please sign up. Sergei Tereshuk microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u63	Dear colleagues, we are at all levels, at meetings, at the rostrum, talking about the need to increase the role and status of local governments. At the same time, such minor questions seem to refer to the competence of the Cabinet of Ministers. The authorities of local self-government are some kind of district council, some kind of district council, where our deputies work. Don't they know better about land, forest areas? Today we want to take that right away from them and hand it over to an official from the Cabinet of Ministers. I'm not saying that this bill contains a number of such disagreements. Before dividing the land of municipal and state property. Who will make the decision? Again, we have problems. So I think that this bill needs to be finalized, and only then can we talk about making a law out of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u64	Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u65	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Let's look at this bill without emotion. What is it? Now every village council that had its own management and continued to have forests and so forth, had the right to a permit of up to one hectare, when one hectare of forest was to be put in charge, leased, and give permission to build what you want. After the host had received this area, he asked the question that I had got a plot up to one hectare, and let me cut out the forest because I was going to be there. And the village council, as it gave, allowed. I think here, unlike some other bills, the Cabinet of Ministers is doing just the right thing. Let it be at the hands of the Cabinet of Ministers. The Cabinet of Ministers is going to be much harder than any country council. And that's why those who are going to vote against this bill are going to pursue only one goal -- he knows that every village council can agree, and so let it remain in the village council. Respecting local self-government, considering that, in fact, they have the right to make the right decisions, I propose to support this bill and, indeed, to give it to the Cabinet of Ministers. With the Cabinet of Ministers, it will be much more difficult to arrange than with every village council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u66	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u67	Dear colleagues! Actually, I haven't heard the original interpretation of the law and the logic of the law before, just like a colleague. It'll be harder to make a deal, and it'll cost more. What are we talking about? Look at the good name in the law, God! What a miracle it is to save forests! With regard to the conservation of forests from whom? But on such a schedule, if we now vote for this law, Ukraine will become a wasteland in a year or two. Because the Cabinet of Ministers on the left and right will do what is best for him. Yes! It'll be harder, but it'll be more expensive! Especially when someone wants to like it before the elections! And especially if it has to be done! Dear colleagues! I'd like to support, I think, the proposal is normal, smart, understood, a reasoned proposal from the basic committee, the main committee of profile that Roman Tkac made the report. Moreover, this is former Governor of Ivano-Frankish, he knows what forests are. And one more thing. Come on, let's not get mixed up in a bunch, dear fellows! But the village council has no right to take away the forest! The village council may enter into the trouble of forest farming. I understand why this bill is supported by some people, we know who is headed by the State Committee on Forestry today, and now it's going to raise $100 on every penny, not the country council, as it used to be. This bill has to be rejected!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u68	Dear colleagues! The bill has been finalized, and the Committee's proposal to return to work on A in accordance with the Rules is that I put to the vote a proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending Ukraine's Land and Forest Codes for the Conservation of Forests. [[Registration number 2463]] I'd like to make a statement. [[17:05:54]] For-183 The decision is not taken. I would like to vote on the proposal to re-read the draft Law amending Ukraine's Land and Forest Codes for Conservation of Forests. [[Registration number 2463]] I'd like to make a statement. [[17:06:26]] For 193 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. I am introducing a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislation on the removal of particularly valuable lands, a reporter – Deputy Minister of Environmental Protection Movcan Mikola Mihajlovich, co-rapporteur – Secretary of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Tkaz Roman Volodyrovic. [[Registration number 3125]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u69	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill is designed to improve the legislative regulation of relations resulting from the removal, the redemption of especially valuable lands. The project proposes an expansion of the list: (1) land that cannot be transferred to municipal and private property; (2) especially valuable land and its disposal; (3) land that is subject to a ransom for social needs for the purpose of using beneficial mines of public value. The bill proposes to exclude valuable lands, public-value resorts, including recreational facilities. Expansion of social needs by buying up land to extract beneficial fossils of public value for the construction and maintenance of mining enterprises exploiting a range of beneficial fossils of public value, industries and other enterprises of strategic importance for the development of the oil and gas wells region and for the production of buildings related to their exploitation. The bill highlights the priority of agricultural land and provides for a standard according to which the value of the land in the event of its redemption for public purposes requires that the land be assessed according to its expertise and that the land of agricultural destination is not below the standard monetary valuation. The bill will help to prevent the negative economic consequences of existing land allocation arrangements, including the use of nadras, the exploitation of beneficial fossils of national importance, particularly in the oil sector. Simplification of geological, storm, search, geodetic, and other exploration work is called upon to do such work without the removal of land or parts of land. [[ransom]] Adoption of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u70	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u71	Right-wing protection. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u72	Thank you. Have a seat. Romane Volodymyrovich Tkac is the committee's secretary. Please conclude the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u73	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Your opinion is proposed to amend some Ukrainian legislation on the removal of the ransom of particularly valuable lands. [[by registration number 3125]] The project is designed to improve the legislative regulation of relations resulting from the removal of the ransom of particularly valuable land used for the development of beneficial fossils. The Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations at its meeting on February 17, 2009, considered the bill and noted the following. The rule regarding the granting of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine could not be agreed with, in addition, a group of soils that would relate to particularly valuable lands. The list of particularly valuable lands is established by law and already exists in the law, and this right, I stress again, cannot be granted to the Cabinet of Ministers. The Supreme Council has established a clear list of these lands. An unwarranted proposal is to expand the list of ransoms for social needs for the construction and maintenance of industrial and other enterprises of strategic importance to the region. Who will determine that this enterprise has strategic significance? You can't do that. In addition, there are disagreements between articles 97 and 150 of the Ukrainian Code of Land in part of the mandates of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the conduct of exploration work. Furthermore, article 151 of the Ukrainian Code of Land was updated in September 2008. This is not included in this bill at all. By the way, our scientific expertise is paying attention to that. In view of the above, the Ukrainian Supreme Council Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine amend some of Ukraine’s legislation on the removal of particularly valuable land under registration number 3125 to refer to the subject of the legislative initiative. [[ransom]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u74	Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Katerina Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u75	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Of course, laws and codes can and should be improved. But how many of the beautiful norms of the Earth Code are now being protected by this law is unacceptable. Nevertheless, to treat land, especially valuable land, under orders, or to give the right to determine which land it is, only executives cannot be allowed to do so. It clearly states that it refers to particularly valuable lands. And with regard to the ransom, and with regard to the allocation of the plots here, it takes a lot of work and thinking that we don't let the standards that work today go to waste. And one more thing. We make a lot of decisions with you in the Supreme Council about the allocation of areas. It takes time. But you know, from every region there's a national MP, he knows clearly whether it's true or not, what the land is for. Are we going to make the right decision or not? The entire Supreme Council participates in the discussion, and this preserves Ukrainian lands. If we give it all up for the ransom of local authority, we can get any results, because that's what we see in those complaints that are endlessly coming from people to us. I think that the only other national wealth that has unique value is our land, we must be very careful, and especially important decisions must be made only in this room. I am absolutely convinced of this, and I urge my colleague to approach this bill with determination.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u76	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u77	Vladimir Karpuk. Please pass the word to John Stojko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u78	Ivan Stojko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u79	Dear colleagues, this law resembles a previous law that specifically referred to the transfer of forest areas. And indeed, if we're talking about it. That we want to do everything we can to make sure that the authorities have more authority in place so that no one can go to Kiev at some point in the woods or land, or, if you'll excuse me, they'll get to the stakes. Therefore, we should be moved today because nadra, a simple language that is extracted in an open way, is a career. At present, it is extremely difficult to obtain a license for a particular career for years. Imagine when Kabin will still be focusing on himself, determining a certain area of land that he has, let's say, the value. And that's why, I think, today, we have to support the agrarian committee's decision itself and not let everyone concentrate in the Cabinet, because, as it's called, the Cabinet of Ministers steals from this matter, into the powers of the local authorities inconceivably, and then we'll regret it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u80	Vladimir Jaro Szkuk, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u81	Vladimir Jaro Szkuk, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please pass the word to Vladimir Yatsubi.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u82	Vladimir Grigorovich Yatsuba, faction of the Party of Regions, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u83	I refer to today's governors, and in the past, and to all the local self-government, that's how the central authority takes power in practice. So far they've been sharing licenses, taking money, and now they want to do everything they can to come and say, "This is ours and this is what they're going to be developing." That's why I'm so against it. I'm talking to Julia Volodymyrna, she was doing so well with the local self-government, I mean with the village councils, and it was clear that the rights of local self-government, especially the grassroots. Take this off, please. I'm going to the Ministry of Ecology. You've already seized and accumulated how much, you've concentrated in Ukraine, that there's no such thing in any country anymore. Keep your mouth shut for local self - control! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u84	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The committee proposes that the subject of the legislative initiative be returned to the draft law. In accordance with the requirements of the Rules, you first have before you the proposal to adopt a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the removal of the ransom of particularly valuable lands. [[Registration number 3125]] [[17:17:18]] For-141 The decision is not taken. I am voting on a proposal by the committee to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work, that is, to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Huh? No, on my way back. What's the first thing again if the committee denies this bill? Returning the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development [[17:17:55]] For-173 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. Dear colleagues, you are being reviewed by the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on responsibility for storing works, images or objects of a pornographic nature]] [[Registration number 3221]] The rapporteur is Deputy Justice Minister Jefimenko Leonid Vasilovich. Correspondent is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement activities, Shemchuk Viktorovich. And at the same time, I announce that the evening session we continue for up to 18 hours for 15 minutes. For 15 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u85	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill has been drafted to strengthen the protection of children's rights and legitimate interests and to bring national legislation into line with international legal obligations undertaken by Ukraine in ratifying the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on Child Trafficking, Child Prostitution and Child Pornography. To this end, it is proposed to complete part 1 of article 301 of the Criminal Code after the words “for the purpose of distribution or distribution” with the word “preservation”. In doing so, criminal responsibility is established for the preservation of works, images or other objects of a pornographic nature for the purpose of their sale or distribution, which are criminalized by the project in the same way as those already provided for in article 301 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code and have a similar degree of social danger. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u86	Thank you. Please, Victor Viktorovich. The committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u87	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! A committee on law enforcement was discussed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 301 of the Criminal Code. [[on responsibility for storing works, images or objects of a pornographic nature]] The purpose of the bill is to amend the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which would provide for criminal responsibility for storing works, images or other objects of a pornographic nature for the purpose of their sale or distribution, which is one of the international legal obligations undertaken by Ukraine in ratifying the Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. [[on trafficking in children, child prostitution and child pornography]] The bill amends article 301 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code by adding to the forms of the objective aspect of the crime in the form of the storage of the relevant items. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has no comments on the draft law and believes that the first reading of the bill makes it appropriate to adopt the bill as a basis. As a result of the discussion, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the outcome of the plenary session of the adoption of the bill as a basis and as a whole as a law of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u88	Dear colleagues, would you mind if we put the vote to the vote? It's clear. I am betting on a motion for a committee to adopt as a basis for the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on responsibility for storing works, images or objects of a pornographic nature]] Registration number 3221. [[17:21:38]] For 337 Decision taken. The committee proposes the adoption of a draft law as a whole. Is there no objection? I'm betting on a motion for a committee to adopt in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the bill amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on responsibility for storing works, images or objects of a pornographic nature]] Registration number 3221. Please vote. [[17:22:16]] For 343 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, we must now conclude that the law has been passed. [[B in m in s a l in]] I am introducing a draft law on the assignment of legal persons and entities to the property of the names of natural persons. Registration number 2447. The rapporteur is Deputy Justice Minister Jefimenko Leonid Vasilovich. Correspondent, head of the Committee on Science and Education, Polohalo Volodymyr Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u89	The Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, the distinguished national MPs, the adoption of the Ukrainian law on the acquisition of legal persons and objects of property rights of individuals, will allow the order of attribution of such names to be regulated for the purpose of perpetuating the memory of those who have made a significant contribution to the development of the Ukrainian State, the maintenance of international peace and security, the strengthening of Ukraine’s international authority, the heroic act, the improvement in the name of the Fatherland, have made a significant personal contribution to the development of science, education, culture, and other spheres of social life. The draft law also proposes that the names of natural persons may be assigned to legal persons and property rights that are secured by them, military formations, and property rights that are also attached to them, to squares, boulevards, streets, alleys, embroideries, passways, avenues, squares, coastlines, bridges. The bill also proposes to identify subjects who violate the issue of assigning names to individuals, preparing applications for the assignment of such names, and assigning names to individuals. The bill was repeatedly submitted to public discussion and agreed with all interested executive authorities. In this regard, we ask that the bill be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u90	Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the committee head of the Committee on Science and Education, Vladimir Ivanovich Polocho.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u91	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! I wanted to say that the Committee on Science and Education suggests recommending to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Adaptation to Legal Persons and Subjects of Property Rights of Individuals to be considered in the first reading and accepted as a basis. And I'd like to support you. But at the same time, when discussing the bill on the committee, it was pointed out that the subject of the regulation of the law should be the use of names and names, the very names of eminent persons who are actually coming out of the third draft article. However, this is not reflected in the title of the law. It should be clearly defined by law in the list of property rights in which the name of the individual may be used. We believe that the order of assigning the names of eminent persons to streets, areas, parks or other parts of the population should be consistent with the order of assigning the names of such persons to geographical objects under the Ukrainian Geographic Names Act, the fifth article of which provides for the holding of appropriate referendums to determine the opinion of the population living in the territory of these objects. Since respected colleagues, assigned names become an integral part of the appointments of legal persons, they can be an integral part of, for example, a trademark that is an object of intellectual property rights, including intellectual property rights. In this connection, in order to avoid possible misunderstandings, he suggests that the use of the assignment of names, the appointment of a legal person, is not the basis for the creation of intellectual property rights in the heirs of natural persons whose names are used in the appointments of legal persons. In other words, I propose to support the first reading as a basis, but the Ministry of Justice needs to work seriously on the second reading in the context of what I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u92	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Is there a need to discuss? Please write down if you wish to express your thoughts on this bill. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? National Deputy Gordienko, faction. Catherine Semenovna Vashchuk. I'm sorry. I'm sorry, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u93	Thank you very much. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I don't need to vote for this bill, and I want you to know that these are the last bills that they've ever passed, and I know what this is about. This was called for by the President's Order, by written orders from the former ex-head of the President's Secretariat, who demanded that the heads of the district government report to him every week on how many streets, playgrounds, schools, kindergartens, palaces of culture would be named after Bendera, Petluri, Shuhevich and so on. Tell me, please, this has recognized the opposition in society, and in Hersonland, I'm asked what the relation to our territory has to Bender, Sukhevich, Petlur, Mazep, if he has no significant role to play, not to Hersonian, but to Ukraine. And so, in order to avoid it at all, look at Oxford wearing no name at all. And other institutions of higher education, I propose not to cause trouble in the state, not to disturb the situation, so as not to impose on them the names of traitors of the Ukrainian people, as ideals, cannot be done; the future of the state cannot be raised by betrayers and traitors. And so I propose to reject this bill and never return to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u94	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u95	Thank you. Dear colleagues, today we've been looking at more than a dozen drafts marked "U", i.e. from the government, from the government, from the government, I would like to address you. Tell me, which of these bills has an anti-crisis orientation? These are the last drafts, these are not the fight against the crisis, they're not the fight against the consequences of the crisis, they're not trying to minimize the social consequences of the crisis in the real economy. It's usually the effort of the short-term administration and the hard centralization of power that has met decisively in this room. In particular, before this bill, which I am warned about, the mechanism developed by this bill, the reporter, will allow a specific minister to submit a change of name or to assign a name to a particular individual, one or the other, or to a teaching or manufacturing institution. Well, wait, or maybe you should ask the opinion of the group that works there, or the students or the teachers who work there, learn things like that. And one more thing, dear colleagues, is just thinking about strengthening Ukraine's international authority. We split up here in the session room, we said, for example, Ogresko by his behavior, which required a Russian translator to help strengthen him? Yes, one part of the hall said, it greatly strengthens the international authority of Ukraine. No, said another part of the hall, he struck against the international authority of Ukraine. This bill may be necessary. This bill should probably allow for the renaming and attribution of the names of natural persons. But to do so, you really need to listen to the opinion of the Ministry of Justice. And this bill needs to be finalized.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u96	Vladimir Karpuk faction "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u97	Vladimir Karpuk. Deputies for Ukraine. The government has passed a timely Law on the Production of a Mechanism for Adaptation to Legal Objects and Objects of Property Rights of Individuals. Because we know that Ukraine is very rich in talents, and every area, every village, practically, has a graduate of a native who has celebrated the land at some point. Sadly, we forget that our earth is rich in these talents. Our Ukrainian talents are attributed to other countries, other states, and work for the image of other countries in the world. And so to remember these people, we need to assign these names, not so that there are hundreds of names, hundreds of squares, playgrounds, villages, names of those people who really have no bearing on Ukrainian history. Therefore, this law must be supported in the first reading and elaborated so that the law is and lives in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u98	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We finished the discussion. No, please, Vladimir Ivanovich Polocholo.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u99	Dear colleagues! There's just one line. You know, we don't have to politicize, ideologicalize any normal draft law. It's just one thing, I'm just paying attention to everyone. In order for there to be no chaos in attribution, it is necessary to regulate the procedure for the assignment of legal persons, subjects of property rights of national and foreign social and social actors. Nothing more! There's no Shuhevich or Bandera! On the contrary, so that we can, as in civilized countries, regulate it legally and do no speculation on any name. So to be honest, no one wins when you vote against it, it's just that we're going to be sorry about the "legal nihilists" in that sense. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u100	Dear colleagues! The bill has been completed. The point is, why are we considering this bill today? There was a rephrase of charges to deal with anticrisis laws. The point is that this bill was introduced more than a year ago. And if the Supreme Council of Ukraine had not spent a third of its working time until December and more than a third of its time blocking, obviously the Supreme Council would have cleared up these bills and we would have been working on others. I'm not taking anything, I'm just saying that we need to take an early decision by the Supreme Council on all the bills that lie for a long time. I don't give any credit. So I now put to the vote the first proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Law on Adaptation to Legal Persons and Subjects of Property Rights of Individuals. [[Registration number 2441]] Yes, please be sure. Dear colleagues, calm down. Let's be clear, everything! [[17:34:03]] For 226 The bill was adopted as a basis. The Draft Law on Change to the Ukrainian Law on Securities and Stock Markets is announced, and the rapporteur is a member of the State Commission on Securities and Stock Market Biruk Sergey Olexiyovich, co-rapporteur, head of the Committee on Finance and Banking of Prasolov Igor Mikolaiovich. [[on the order of operations of the issuer and investors]] [[Registration number 3584]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u101	Honourable National Deputies, the prescribed bill corresponds to the Securities Act, which was adopted in 2006, to the following adopted laws on corporate relations and. I'm not sure what and so on. This bill does not allow for disagreement between these bills. In addition, he must regulate the standard that was not found in the Securities and Stock Markets Act. After deployment, the issuer must report the location. New owners, investors can exercise their rights, including the right to sell securities, other rights after the report is registered. No terminals installed. Many cases where the process is delayed when the report is not submitted and investors cannot realize their rights and lose their money. The bill states that 60 days should be approved and submitted within 15 days. In addition, if such a decision is not made or the issue is not real, then the money should be returned. Now it's a problem in cases where they don't come out, the report doesn't go. Money doesn't always come back at the right time. This leads to the loss and deterioration of Ukraine’s image as a country that is civilized and worthy of protecting investors in the country. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u102	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Igor Mikolaiovich Prasolov, please make a decision to the Committee on Finance and Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u103	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people! Bill 3584 proposed to your attention was considered at the meeting of the Committee on Finance and Banking on 8 April this year. The bill amends the law, which is primarily due to the application of the Law on Securities and Stock Markets. Well, the main changes to this bill relate to the regulation of such an institution, the legal institution as the issuance of securities, in particular the form of emission papers, the timing of the various emission procedures, the registration of emissions, the registration of emission results, the operation of issuers, investors and so on. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office made small remarks to the bill and recommended that it be adopted on first reading. The Committee decided to recommend the proposed bill and to adopt it as a basis. Please support the Committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u104	Thank you. Dear colleagues, are there any warnings about the committee's decision? Can we put this proposal to the vote? There is a motion for a committee to adopt as a basis for the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Securities and Stock Markets. [[on the order of operations of the issuer and investors]] Please vote. [[17:38:39]] For 336 Decision taken. All of it? Is the objection against the adoption of the whole bill? None. If there's no objection, I'm voting on a second reading proposal and as a whole a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Securities and Stock Markets. [[on the order of operations of the issuer and investors]] [[Registration number 3584]] Please vote. [[17:39:22]] For 353 The law is passed. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the abolition of State technical inspection of means of transport is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 4014]] The rapporteur is Ukraine's national deputy, Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich. Correspondent is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement, Prokopchuk Yuri Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u105	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! What is the point of this bill? It's about 9 million drivers, and it's about depriving the state of bribery. I'll tell you right away. That this law is personally opposed by the Minister of Internal Affairs of Lucenko and the State Auto Inspector. But that's the situation where you have to make choices. What's the point? After the changes that we made last November, in fact the person who needs to undergo a technical examination, he has to go to the state institution twice, first to the certified WTO, where he actually checks the technical condition where he pays or pays everything, pays extra, but he doesn't give the gift; then he has to go through a separate state-run inspection, without the car, put all the papers back, pay directly, indirectly, depreciate, and only then he gets that paper that doesn't really speak of machine fitness for two years. I propose that we cancel this technical review of the State Auto Inspectorate, which is actually a fictitious one, and that is a hoax, and let the liberated experts of the State Auto Inspectorate go on the road and help us, not with the lights around the signs of 40-50 kilometers, but really help us. The committee supported it, and there was no vote against it. I ask you to support this document in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u106	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the committee's decision to report. Is there a Yuri Volodymyrovich Prokopchuk? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u107	Dear Head, honourable colleagues, television audiences, radio audiences, I report the committee's decision accordingly, although I want to say that I had a special opinion on this bill. Your opinion is proposed by the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian laws to repeal the state technical review. [[Registration number 4014]] This bill provides for amendments to the Ukrainian laws on road traffic, on road transport, on taxes from owners of vehicles and other self-propelled vehicles and mechanisms, and on the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences for the purpose of abolishing state-owned technical inspection of transport equipment and improving the legal relationship for carrying out a state-of-the-art examination of vehicles instead. Prior to the introduction of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Ukraine on Improving the Regulation of Road Traffic Safety Relations, the state-of-the-art state of transport was checked by the State Inspectorate and the authorized authority of the Ministry of Agriculture Policy of Ukraine in the conduct of the state-owned technical review. This check is now being carried out by appropriate owners. The word “appropriate” because such subjects are practically, well, nothing has been defined as being the subject. And the DAI and the authorized authority of the Minagropolitics are only checking the availability of mandatory civil liability insurance policies, the introduction of compulsory payment and taxes by owners of vehicles, the payment of fines for road safety violations and the timeliness of medical examination by drivers. In the same way, the state technical review is based on control functions that are not related to the technical state of transport. Then, according to the author, technology became unnecessary and needed to be repealed, as the bill envisaged. As a result of its adoption of two procedures for controlling the technical status of state-of-the-art vehicles: in DAI and on the WTO, there is only the last one that fully ensures this control. Sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u108	Please rephrase the committee’s decision and all.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u109	The committee's decision was, I want to say, not unanimous, but by a majority of votes to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the bill in the first reading and on the basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u110	Thank you. Have a seat, please. People's deputies please sign up for it. If there's such a desire to have a discussion. Please sign up. Let's do it this way. Now we're going to listen to the speeches, and then we're going to listen to the government representative. Catherine Samuel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u111	Thank you. Catherine Samuelk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Of course, people are thanking you for adopting this bill, because here we are when the left side was pounding and shouting that without the adoption of the road traffic laws Ukraine will die and that this is the only way out of the crisis, we have really adopted this law, we see what a huge burden today is on people who have cars. But here I am just as a person, personally I want to say as a citizen of Ukraine, as a person. The fact that natural persons who have transportation should be freed from technology, I think that's absolutely right. But I'm interested in a completely different question, and I'd like to give you the answer. Would you please tell me what happens to public or private cars that carry people? We can see that almost every day there are accidents involving a great loss of life. It's in both the east and the west and the south and the north of our country. And it's all because of the malfunction. We know that a lot of transportation has passed its age, but after all, the master's been out there digging, brewing, drinking, still driving and transporting people. And so this is the question, I think we need to settle for the second reading, because we're going to take on a very large responsibility for the fate of those people who are being transported by the businesses. And in general, really, the offer is very clear. And I think we should agree with her. Enough just to survive, to extort from people. Sometimes we have to give an example to people that we care about them and that we are limiting the pressure on those people who are driving today, and that car, for them, is this or "Lada" or "The Level" is the only one.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u112	Katerina Vaschuk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u113	The Honourable Chief, Honorable Colleagues, this law. Indeed, it requires further work, even though it deserves much attention. And here we have to thank the author for raising this important subject. In fact, an overview of people’s technical private cars is often based on the fact that they simply sign the papers. No one's looking at them, no one's checking them. It's the only way to raise funds, if all of these costs go to the State Budget. Unfortunately, this is not always the case and we have to admit it. And second, but there's a transport that, as the previous speaker said, is a very important technical condition, is buses, it's transport that transports people, it's transportation that works on routes. With regard to him, the standards and standards of security should be increased. Of course, he requires regular technical inspection. And the third. Transport facilities that are now available in the home facilities, especially in those working in the agricultural sector of Ukraine. I'd like to take this opportunity to see our chief inspectors of the Ukraine. We have to decide how we used to go to the farm, look at this transport, and then there would be no problem. Today it must be pushed to one place, then to another. And it creates huge inconveniences and a lot of people's appeals asking to get rid of that burdensome mission. Often it takes a lot of time to get a technical checkup for many miles, and that is a lot of money. It is not easy to buy gasoline today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u114	Zabzaluk People's Deputy, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to point out that the lack of even simplified equipment requirements, as well as the significant shortcomings in their activities, indicate the prematureity of such a decision. It will inevitably result in a 10 - fold increase in the private owner’s payments for private technology. In addition, the proposed bill actually destroys an active state control system, which is placed on the ISS units on the technical state of transport. This is primarily the case with the loss of the budget due to the reduction of income from the payment of taxes by the owners of transport vehicles and the payment of fines for road safety violations. Evidence of this, by the way, is the numerous appeals of district and district councils asking to suspend the so - called new order of state technical review. He needs more careful study and preparation at the legislative level, this standard. Such appeals came from Herson, Odessa, Mikolai, Zitomirsk, Kirovograd, Vinnitsky, Dnipropetrovsk regions. So I propose not to support this bill, it's very raw.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u116	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please. The faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u117	Dear colleagues! I went out to the rostrum to talk to you and to look at you. That's who I'm talking about, and I'm talking about crisis again. Look, I've been thinking all along that it's a challenge for the opposition to make such legislative proposals to put the government in an awkward position. So that this government can never carry out, and if it makes these legislative proposals, it gets some kind of problem, but that the representative of the parliamentary majority should make such a proposal that suddenly stops -- I emphasize, think about it! - a state-of-the-art technical review. Maybe someone would like to thank you, thank you, good uncle, you've canceled, now you can do the tarantas, chase the tarantas and say, "I showed you my elbow, not my finger." You can be shown with your finger, you're not an icon, you're a living person, you can say thank you. But, your honor, the same doesn't thank you for breaking the road where he left his teeth in the front, the city, and so on. And what we have on our routes right now, I'm not talking about cities, villages, look at the route, or even Boryspill, and we used to be proud of it, or Poltava. And we thank you for the roadside adventures that happen because the man missed a puddle, and from the puddle he flew into the other and so on. I was on my way from Zaporozhye all the time driving, and I see this beautiful poster of the "Constitutional Order" of a man. I guarantee you, this bill of order on the road won't bring us, we can't vote for it. The idea is good, we need to improve the system of state-of-the-art review, I'm in for, but formalism, away from osmosis, away from bribes, away from beatings, it's got to be a specific technical control to keep all kinds of scarecrows from driving drugs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u118	Yes, please, the faction has the right to speak, John Stojko. Then there will be a line, and then a government representative will act. John Stoick's microphone. The faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u119	Dear colleagues! The previous speaker said that there was really a need for order, order on the roads, and something to start with. I think this law has the right to exist and we have to adopt it in the first reading. And so if we're talking about private transport today -- yes, we need to undo what we call struggles and misunderstandings and all that. But there is public transportation — we should never forget it today. The previous speakers spoke of him. He needs, in fact, a technical examination. Let us not forget, too, about medicine. Today's paradox is. The rapid help from the district center is forced to go to the district center, since there is only one technical inspection point. We don't have any food expenses in the district. She still has to spend a lot of money to get a tech check. So it really needs to be canceled. And I think our group is "for Ukraine" and probably.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u120	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u121	The “For Ukraine” group believes that this bill should be adopted in the first reading and further developed and then adopted as a whole. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u122	Anatoly Gritsenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u123	Thank you! Dear colleagues! I'm willing to work with you on the second reading, but I want to explain. This document has no relation to what is happening on the roads and what is the state of the roads. The point is that you don't have to chase people into two institutions right now: one where you actually check the technical condition, and then you don't get the coupon, even half-formal or bought to go to another institution that doesn't see the machine any more, but works only with the document, but you pay again, to stand up again, this second part that happens in the DAI, I suggested cancel. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u124	Thank you! Please, from the government position or from the Ministry of Internal Affairs, microphone. _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Ladies and gentlemen, your honor, the presiding officer! Today, the system of state-owned technical review consists of two parts, this study of the technical state that is being carried out by the subjects of entrepreneurial activity, to this day 600 of them, and to this day the first experience has shown that the creation of this system has brought chaos, this is an increase in wages, that is, if the PAI paid 45 dollars, and today 150-140 dollars, and so on, they are selling these manuals today. I mean, this is one half. The other half is the exercise of state control. It's a control over the rightness of the use of transport, against the crime scene, so there's no broken cars, counterfeit cars, and so on. And control over the execution of state payments. Three main directions. The adoption of this law will, first of all, result in the destruction of the public tax system, first of all, the transport tax, which is 2 billion dollars, which go primarily to local road budgets, to improve road conditions. The other one. This opens the way for years-inhibited criminal cars on Ukraine's roads. I mean, welded, beaten-up doppelgangers will drive without a warrant, we can't stop without breaking up with this car and checking in, and they won't come to us at all. And thirdly, as of 1936 today, there is an installed, personnel-equipped system of technical control and of maintained control of transport. And the system that was created today to control the technical situation is about 10,000 people who, when passed this law, would simply be out of work and useless to the state. And last but not supported by this law by the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Agrarian Politics and the Chief Scientific and Experimental Administration of the Supreme Council point out that there is no economic justification for this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u125	Thank you. Adam Martinyuk and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u126	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Martinuk is a faction of Communists. We heard a fiery speech by the head of the Department. All I had to do was ask: Who allowed private entities to do government business? Here's the question I have today. Why we gave the right and who initiated the state-owned technical inspection of public transport, comrade general or general, you listen to what I'm asking you. Who took the initiative to have private structures review transport? Unfortunately, it came from the Ministry of Internal Affairs. And I have a very, very big question. Why, on the basis of what and why did you allow this to happen? Without a doubt, the Department of State Auto-Inspection would have to carry out this oversight. And if you went to what non-state structures could do, you did.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u127	I think it's about that. Dear colleagues, this isn't the evening, it's not the evening of questions and answers! So I would ask the Ministry of Internal Affairs to provide a written answer. I'm going to get to know the MPs about the problem that the national MP has been up to. Dear colleagues, we're finalizing the discussion. The results of the discussion indicated that the problem should be organized. That's clear. I think it's well-known for both the Ministry and the National Deputys of Ukraine. But at the same time, let us act wisely so that at the same time we do not cancel the traffic rules before the elections, for that way we can cancel them. And after the election, we'll be gathering the country back. So it is obvious that there is a problem. Let the Supreme Council of Ukraine be determined on the basis of the decision-making process, and further substantive work is needed on the relevant document. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the abolition of state technical inspection of transport vehicles. [[Registration number 4014]] [[17:59:21]] For-187 The decision is not taken. I'm voting for re-reading the draft law. [[Registration number 4014]] [[5:59:47]] For 197 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. The factions, please. Region Party – 123, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 0, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 28, Communist faction – 27, “Litvina Block” – 19. Dear colleagues, announcing. In 15 minutes, we've moved on. Therefore, a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on measures to stimulate social housing is being tabled for consideration. The rapporteur is the national deputy of Velizanski Sergey Kostaninovich. Sinchenko is a national deputy and will be represented by Yatsuba Vladimir Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u128	Thank you. Respected colleagues, respected citizens, the purpose of this bill is to reduce the cost of building housing, i.e. eventually reduce the cost of construction and reduce the burden on our citizens. The method chosen for the task is to streamline the relationship between builders and monopolists who provide technical conditions for connection of water, heat, electricity and so on. We have a system that can be called anachronism, when, in fact, these monopolists have put up all kinds of conditions and beyond, depending on whether they are still public, the corrupt scheme for optimizing these costs has often worked. If these are privatized structures, these privatized structures were illegally allocated by the taxpayer, through the person who acquired the housing, to the production capacity that was then, in fact, allocated. The essence of the proposal is: if this monopolistic enterprise imposes certain technical conditions that the builder is required to fulfil, the construction cost of these facilities is agreed upon by the firm that exposes these technical conditions and, consequently, by adopting these built networks on a balance basis, the monopolist enterprise must compensate for the cost of their construction to the contractor. It was fair to note, during the discussion of the committee, that it was not only about social housing but also about affordable housing in general. We agree with that observation and are prepared to eliminate it and a number of others in the process of preparing for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u129	Thank you, Andre Ivanovich. I would like to invite national deputy Yatsubu Vladimir Grigorovitch, head of the subcommittee on construction, construction and housing policy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u130	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! A bill to amend some of Ukraine’s laws to encourage the construction of social housing by Ukrainian national deputies proposes the creation of a mechanism to compensate builders and investors for the cost of building or reconstructing engineering infrastructure. It is practical to organize and clearly define the procedure for compensation from construction to infrastructure. Today, this is not orderly, so the decision is made depending on who has problems with the design of engineering infrastructure. This bill was considered by the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Budget Affairs. There's a note by the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council. They have determined as always that this document is needed for processing. On June 4th, the committee considered the bill – and decided: to recommend to the Supreme Council the outcome of the consideration of adopting it in the first reading, to adopt the bill as a basis. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u131	Thank you, Vladimir Grigorovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Is it? Please sign up. Please show me. National deputy Popov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u132	Dear colleagues, indeed, this is a problem that is currently being discussed, has in fact blocked the prospect of housing development, social development in many settlements. Because today it is very expensive for local budgets, even if the State is involved. The proposed technical modalities and further resolution of the problem proposed in the law are therefore very relevant today, and I am just sure that it will be supported by all local governments. I would ask you to support this bill, it is very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u133	Thank you. National Deputy Tereshuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u134	Dear colleagues. Sergei Tereshuk, “Block of Lithuania”. First of all, it is not clear why the authors of the law somehow associated themselves with social housing. This bill applies to the construction of any housing. And I completely agree with the authors, I agree with Vladimir Grigorovich. Today, order is needed in this very part of what the law says. A lot of people started building, knowing what it was like to get technical conditions. As he pleases. Both gas and sewerage are used, and others are allowed to connect in this way. And that's sometimes, in the cost structure, quite a lot of these exact networks. So it is absolutely right that there is a law or law that regulates the procedure for obtaining all permits. A law that provides for the cost of construction and that should be compensated. That's why our faction of the Lithuanian Block will support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u135	Please, two more factions are right. Vladimir Bondarenko and Adam Martinyuk. Please, Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u136	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. The point is that this bill is really necessary, but today we only have to adopt it in the first reading. The point is that when cities and villages are built, we need to focus primarily on the Master Plan for detailed planning of microregions. Because we have a bitter practice in Kiev, when the construction of all the free land at a time when housing prices were high, became a housing boom, and now nowhere to build any stadiums, schools, kindergartens, or other social facilities. So the law itself is necessary, and the technical conditions are required, but it should certainly be as simplified as possible for the builders. If there's a master plan for detailed planning projects, there's only technical work to be done and it's confirmed that this residential building that's going to be built in this place is going to be built by such an organization, on such conditions. The conditions for all should be equal, for imposing the technical conditions above is simply putting the building out of business.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u137	Thank you. Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u138	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Those of you who have had the opportunity to familiarize themselves with the bill, I would like to draw your attention to the impossibility of the bill's name. The author is always looking for, sorry for the Russianism, the lasagna. He found her social housing, a name that's kind of good, unfortunately, no housing, including social housing, is now being provided. But it's not about social housing at all, it's about first. Secondly, I understand that the builders of the mountain are behind this bill. Why? That every builder who builds is obliged to go to his house, to his building, to provide communication now. I'm going to build a house, but whatever I'm about to do, communication, electricity and so on, let the local authorities pay. You've been thinking about what's going on, let the local authorities pay me to build a place and sell it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u139	Dear colleagues, I have the opportunity under the Rules only to give yet, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" has also spoken to the committee if "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" does not have I would ask Vladimir Grigorovovich from the committee, please. From the committee. Dear colleagues! No one would deny that the committee would clarify its position, Vladimir Grigorovitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u140	Adam Ivanovich! I want to explain the procedure Adam Ivanovich said. Yes, indeed, it cannot be hung on local authorities. But to whom is it suggested to be hanged in the performances? Who? For those of you who will pay for housing. The builders won't do it anywhere, they'll put these costs at a square meter and people will pay for all of these engineering communications, that's all. So you have to determine whether it's going to be paid from the local budget, or whether it's paid by people.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u141	Dear colleagues! There is a proposal to be determined by voting. The committee invites us to take the floor, so I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine on measures to stimulate social housing, please vote. [[Registration number 2106]] [[in the first reading]] [[18:10:03]] For 309 The bill was adopted in the first reading, we prepare for the second reading. Dear colleagues! We need to consult. We've got five minutes. Can't we make it? Irina Anatolyevna Goreina says there's a bill that we'll be there in five minutes. How about we treat our colleague with respect? Then I am announcing for consideration the draft Law amending article 17 of the Ukrainian Act on Architectural Activities, and the rapporteur is the national deputy, Gorina Irina Anatoliyovna. [[on the licensing of construction activities]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u142	My colleagues, thank you very much, I have a very short bill, which also deals with the construction area. We do not have any laws, the Law on the licensing of certain economic activities only refers to the Architecture Act and does not list the construction activities that are subject to licensing, they are only in addition to the law in the special codifier that develops the Minboud. We therefore propose a list in this law. First. Research in construction, development of urban documentation, design of architecture, construction and installation works, installation of engineering networks, construction of transport networks, engineering in the area of construction, to be indicated in the basic law relating to construction and architecture. Thank you. I, yes, based on the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u143	Thank you, Irina Anatolyevna. Yatsuba Vladimir Grigorovich of the Committee, position of the Committee on Construction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u144	I understand. That they're all tired, but do the present know what we have to do for it? So that the general contractor will not be licensed. There is no license to build a general designer. Only subcontractors need a license. So if I'm making a suit, I'm not responsible for this suit. Therefore, I propose to support and close the subject of streamlining who is entitled to a license. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-11-m1.u145	Thank you, Volodymyr Grigorovich, very convincing. Do you want to come forward and talk about it? I don't see any. I therefore put to the vote the draft law amending article 17 of the Ukrainian Act on architectural activities concerning licensing as a basis. The Committee's conclusion is to accept as a basis. Please vote. [[18:12:45]] For 293 Adopted in the first reading. We're cooking. No more, I can see the desire. Dear colleagues, I declare the evening session closed. We'll get back to work tomorrow. We start the morning session at 10:00, as usual. Thanks for the job. Good-bye.
