ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:04:18]] There are 443 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Honourable National Deputies, President of Ukraine Viktor Andryovich Yushchenko is taking part in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine there are: The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Yulia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as well as the First Vice-Prime Minister, who is now 45 years old, welcome him; the heads of the central executive bodies, the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Head of the Court of Auditors, the Head of the Central Electoral Commission, the Head of the High Council of Justice, the Head of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the Chief of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the Head of the District Council, the Kyiv City Council, the Head of the Sevastopol City Council, the Heads of the Regional Administration and the Sevostopal City Public Administration, the Head and the Judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the Head of the Government of the State of the State of Ukraine. [[Congrats]] [[Congrats]] Honourable National MPs, distinguished guests, are invited to announce the annual report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Ukraine's internal and external status.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u2	The noble Ukrainian people! Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Dear Madam Prime Minister! Dear National Deputies! Dear members of the government, guests, ladies and gentlemen! The message of Ukraine's internal and external status is first of all addressed to our people, to all Ukrainian citizens and to the Ukrainian Parliament. Now it's not easy in Ukraine and in the world, we need a calm assessment of the situation. Let everyone who thinks hear me, and everyone for whom Ukraine does not eat, nor is it a temporary haven. I have a right to those words. You know, I am firmly and honestly at the top of my life, in the position of national Ukrainian interests. The nation and man, their free lives, their lives in unity and democracy, are the most important criteria for the activity of the Ukrainian authorities. 100 years ago, the first head of the independent Ukrainian Parliament and then Head of State Mikhailo Gruszewski in the article “The Foundation of the Great Ukraine” formulated the main principles of Ukrainian democracy. It should ensure that the idea of Ukrainian democratic statehood is strengthened, that it is spread in citizenship, that it is nurtured in feelings, that it must be promoted as the highest incentive for public life, which must unite the entire population, that is, the whole nation in one nation’s momentum, conquering party differences and differences where the fundamental interests of the Ukrainian State begin. I address everyone today, everyone who supports me, and anyone who opposes me, those who do not lose faith, and those who have failed. I address all of our great Ukrainian people. We need to look at Ukraine with a broad, sincere, loyal view, and it is in this loyalty that we will find true national unity. In the past five years, Ukraine has certainly changed. The fundamental processes were being carried out. Our main highways are before us, we are established as the only nation, the only Ukrainian nation with a distinct character, culture, language, tradition, history born to our land, and at the same time the only political nation that is created without distinction of opinion, belief, word or origin. We are capable of making decisions that are of national dignity. We raised the subject of the Holocaust to a global level, and the world heard us and understood us. We are all, despite political views, and if we are sincere before God and Ukraine, we are aware of the importance of creating the only local Ukrainian church. That's what the nation says, that's what our dignity says. We learn to be a nation by openly following a conscience despite other people’s discontent, revealing ourselves to ourselves. Let it be difficult, let it hurt, but this one is more alive and healthy, for our spirit and body have been given a chance to recover. We became a free nation. Since 2004, the nation has been the country’s chief arbitrator. Twice the opposition came to power through free and honest elections. For four years now, freedom of speech and choice has been a common norm for us. That's not what it was. Today it's as natural as air. We have continued the vast historical process of unifying Europe and have achieved more in the last few years than in the previous decade, not for anyone — for ourselves. Our integration into European and Euro-Atlantic space is no longer an abstract goal and it is not an end in itself, it is a practical modern tool that will help us bring prosperity to people and guarantee the security of the country, our people, our children and our grandchildren. We've done a lot of system work. As a result, Ukraine made or took refuge in exceptional decisions that were impossible five years ago. This is a merger of Ukraine’s energy systems and the European Union’s closest prospects for signing an energy cooperation agreement, this is an Eastern Partnership Agreement, this is the conclusion of a common sky agreement, this is the beginning of the official negotiations on the visa-free regime of Ukraine - the European Union, this is a negotiation work with the creation of a free trade zone from the EU. This is an unprecedented approach to the political association agreement "Ukraine – European Union", which will be signed this year. Every step mentioned is a real and achievable return of Ukraine to the European world. We focused, not on slogans, but on practical steps, when we became a member of the Bologna Process, we entered the only European educational space. As a member of the World Trade Organization, we became equal partners in Europe’s and the world’s markets. With the creation of the only business plan for modernizing Ukraine's gas transport system, we have started to bring together our gas energy systems, which will not only bring us economic benefits but will limit our external influences. We've brought back to life the Odessa-Broddy energy pipeline. The European Union has no doubt that it will be the main artery for energy carriers from Kaspia to Europe. Along with this project, together with Poland, we've become owners of Euro-2012, this event will support our economy, and it will open us up more to Europe and the whole world. Ukraine has every chance of becoming a minor in five years in the country’s life. We created conditions that allowed us to stop critical demographic processes. Is it not joy, the normal human joy, that in 2008 84,000 Ukrainian babies were born more than in 2004? For the first time in independence in three of our fields, birth was higher than death. And that's just the beginning. Gradually, however, we began to take more care of one another. In 2008, 1 in 10 Ukrainian orphans found their family. In addition, there has been an increase in the number of Ukrainian adoptions since 2006. Compared with 2005, the number of children admitted to foster homes and family homes increased by 22 times. Today, parents are in line for adoption, not children, as they were three years ago. We stopped the mass flow of people abroad. If in 2001-2002 two people left the country for every person who arrived in Ukraine, today the trend is exactly the same: people are coming home. We have taken practical steps in the reform of education. For the first time, 425,000 children entered higher education institutions under new test rules. In fact, we got rid of old corruption. an old corruption scheme that demoralized both parents and children from infancy. This is the first step toward forming a new Ukrainian youth’s consciousness. We started reforming the Armed Forces and the entire security sector, there was a change in principles from wage increases, payments to military personnel to a reduction in service terms of up to 12 months. Despite any difficulty, I'm sure we'll get through and come to the creation of a professional Ukrainian army. Foreign investors believed in Ukraine. Over the past four years, the amount of foreign direct investment in Ukraine has been $27 billion, three times the total amount of foreign investment since the declaration of Ukrainian statehood. And I'll also mention that our potential is well illustrated by one characteristic fact: by the time of the crisis, the rate of growth in the Ukrainian economy was 6.5 to 7 percent, which was one of the highest in Europe. I believe that this indicator will certainly be restored. So we're not in the chasm and on the sidelines, we're in the middle of a path that can lead us to a truly free, rich, securely better society, without puffos and exaggeration. No one's going to cross out our results. But we could do a hundred times more if the notion of national dignity and unity were a common ground for all, and especially for Ukrainian politicians. Our present situation is not unique, and dozens of other nations and nations have faced similar trials: Germany, Poland, Spain, the Czech Republic, and the United States. The answer to the challenges was always one thing: unity, independence and national dignity, the ability to go through ambition, the willingness to live with your life and mind, not the orders from other people's capitals, the desire to see each other as the most important partners, not the competitors that need to be approached at all costs. We've gained freedom. But freedom is not just the background. Its main objective is our progress. I ask the nation to unite us all for our social progress. United where the basic interests of the State, the nation, and the Ukrainian man begin. That's the main point of my message. Dear compatriots! Our external position is secure, but it is vulnerable to numerous new risks. The main threats come from the corrosion of international legal standards, from the overall deterioration of the atmosphere of world relations, from Ukraine's energy dependence and from dangerous, destructive, short-sighted attempts to use the right of power to resolve disputes or conflicts. Our only possible non-alternative response to these challenges is strict compliance with international law and obligations, a constructive and balanced foreign policy course and a firm stand for selected, legislatively defined, national goals. Ukraine’s foreign political priorities were constant and verified. The European, the Euro-Atlantic target is unalterable, it will inevitably be achieved. Once again, this is in the interests of all Ukrainian citizens. I stand for maximum improvement in relations with the Russian Federation. I intend to do my best to turn the page of misunderstandings and provide an even and kind dialogue that should exist between neighbors. Our interstate priorities will remain wide, from Washington to Warsaw, from London and Paris to Beijing and Tokyo, from Seoul to Tripoli. Especially in our present circumstances, we are obliged to strengthen our presence in the external markets and to establish new economic ties. Ukraine wants to live and work in a safe regional environment. We must fully meet all the national security requirements. Our inner situation is difficult, but it is not disastrous. We have not crossed the last line, but we are now facing three serious threats: economic downturn, a deepening political crisis, and widespread social protest. The main cause of the economic crisis in Ukraine is convinced, not from the outside, but the failure of the state and power over the years to carry out basic, necessary structural, and, above all, economic and social reforms. The long - promised Tax Code has moved from government to parliament for ten years. Individual privatization of strategic enterprises has been cancelled by the usual sale under the rules of mass privatization, which were relevant in the late 1990s. Reforms in energy, in agriculture, are not even addressed anymore. Today, we are in the last places in the country's business environment. We were not ready to face much of the crisis, so her first stroke immediately became painful and very difficult. We lost a third of the external markets, which accounted for 60 percent of Ukrainian exports. These markets depended on almost all of our monetary income and the employment of nearly two million people in metallurgy, chemistry, or adjacent industries. This has resulted in a slowdown in GDP, which last year accounted for 2.1 percent compared to 106.7 in 2007 and a 25-30 percent decline over January-February this year. I call this data even though it's carefully classified. All of this has certainly exacerbated the social situation in Ukraine. Debts from October 2008 through January 2009 nearly doubled to reach 1.6 billion dollars. Since October last year, the number of unemployed registered has doubled. But I'm going to limit this line. Respectable compatriots! I came to this room not to describe problems that are now common in many other countries, including our neighbors. I came here to offer a way and a way out of the crisis. A political reckoning that we will be able to face a crisis abroad, to overcome it, convinced of no excuse. We're on the verge of a whole new economy, another world labor redistribution and the ratio of prices to resources. I'm talking to the authorities, and to the opposition, millions of people want their hope back, and I want you to hear the voice of our people. On behalf of millions of Ukrainian citizens, I turn to the entire Ukrainian politics: you are still able to overcome contradictions, aware of the sharpness of the threat. Nevertheless, we are able to stand together at a critical moment for the sake of the State and our people, our first consolidated steps have already yielded results. We're restoring dialogue with international financial organizations, we're saving ourselves from the collapse of the banking system, every third human bracelet has escaped from the banking system, the banking sector has suffered systematic political harassment that has undermined its rhythmic work. Such blows, I'm sure, would hardly hold on to any other more powerful banking system than ours and ours has. More than 70 billion dollars in the national economy have been needed to continue to meet its obligations. We've put in place a constant anti-crisis mechanism for cooperation and consultation. In the spirit of this work, I address everyone present at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please control your political passions and impose a moratorium on conflict, conflict, and relationship. The presidential campaign starts four months before the election, so I suggest that by September, we postpone any budget for temporary political dividends. I ask that it be time for the state to come out of the most acute phase of trials. I'm proposing the only national anti-crisis plan that will save the country and protect millions of our people, it has actions that are interconnected in its components. Economic program and political action. First, the economy, I emphasize, we are special, but not unique in this crisis. The world provides sufficient examples of both successful and failed policies in this regard. Iceland is a developed European country that has recently had $63,000 of domestic gross per capita product lost its economy, its currency, its banking system. Hungary and Denmark, in times of crisis, have increased their own production and reduced unemployment, all because of low inflation. One way is a real program of action. Then I move on to concrete steps. First of all, financial stability in the state needs to be restored. I have repeatedly stressed that the existing State budget for 2009 is populist, it distorts the role of state finances, it poses a serious threat to the stability of national money and prices. We need to maximize all non-productive costs and finally start living on goods. This applies to everyone and everyone from the State, to the budgets of enterprises, and to every Ukrainian family. We are obliged to review the 2009 budget immediately and dramatically. When reviewing the budget, it will insist on the guaranteed financing of protected articles to which the provision of social standards and expenditure for the minimum provision of the functions of the State should apply. Under a colossal resource deficit, it is necessary to stop allocating resources to 300 state-owned target programmes. It's like a "banket in the middle of a plague." The role of the Stabilisation Fund in its creation is to finance the most important state projects and not to pay off the debt from wages is completely absurd. We need to review the so-called balanced plan of NAC “Naftogaz Ukraine”. Everywhere in the world, such a monopoly is prosperous, and we have a hidden and opaque government budget. Today, the company is in a very difficult position, if we don't immediately review its financial plan, the consequences for this company will be dramatic. Realistic changes must be made to the Pension Fund’s budget. Its billions of deficits are covered by the cost of the stabilisation fund. This policy will lead to a collapse. We need a pension reform. I would like to ask all present, gentlemen, if it is normal in our country that the former prosecutor, who, by the way, continues to work, is making a pension of fifty thousand dollars through the courts. Unless it's normal for the authorities, the deputies, the judges, to receive pensions of 10 to 15 to 20 thousand dollars. There are hundreds of such examples, thousands of them. This situation is a brutal disrespect for millions of Ukrainian people, which is the essence of social injustice. I demand that all special pensions be abolished by introducing the only fundamental fundamental criterion that works in every country: salary and internship determine your pension surplus. This is to be done, I'm sure, by today's Supreme Council and, above all, by the coalition. We need to put a real estate tax on wealthy population groups that will strengthen the financial base, first of all, of local self-government. With a heavy heart, but please support the government's proposed increase in excise duties, the expansion of the income base of the Pension Fund. This is the minimum step needed to support the resources of our nation. These first steps will enable us to save the situation and, including, to strengthen, to resume our cooperation with the International Monetary Fund, which will restore the trust of the entire business world in Ukraine. Second, social responsibility. The responsibility of the authorities and employers to ensure employment, first and foremost, of qualified personnel. I propose that we create a system for predicting the development of labour resources in the territories so that we don't overtake demand for labour but prejudice it. We need to stimulate the mobility of the labor force inside the country. If the necessary worker is even tens of miles away, he should offer a place. That'll keep us busy. Next. Restoring justice in social protection is our people's greatest pain. At the same time, let me make it very clear that social justice is not patronalism, not a comparison in the Soviet sense. There are 19.5 million people in Ukraine who need to be treated for the benefits. It's not half the population, it can't stand, it's convinced, no economy in the world. Today’s system of benefits is totally unfair. Those whom we call wealthy people receive the most subsidies from the state to pay for gas, heat, electricity, and nothing can be explained. Social justice is the support of the poorest, the most vulnerable, and it's helping those who want to work, and it's a hard limit for anyone who wants to make a living on the state budget. Then, I call for a radical reduction in the number of benefits, especially on professional grounds, to characterize them and to bring the right to benefits depending on financial and property conditions. Third. We need to fully support the banking system, which is the backbone of the national economy, which holds the muscles of the real productive sector of the country, the state must immediately assume responsibility for the banks, especially the state sector, which are in a difficult position and enter their capital. We have a resource for this, and the budget provides 44 billion dollars through the issue of government securities to recapitalize banks and refinance the national economy. We need to support this national program. This responsibility must be strengthened by the full control of the State over such banks. Convinced that the rapid action of the State will restore citizens’ trust, it will return, and investors will return. But the banking system must return face to face with its most important partner. I insist on putting in place a single mechanism for everyone who is in a difficult position to obtain banking support rather than a system. It is not possible to reduce the financing of working companies that have an internal or external demand. The question of trust also applies to the exchange rate. Today we balanced the course, we actually provided a zero surplus from the external trade. It was in the negative trade balance last year that it was $12 billion, it was the root of all currency problems. Why does the fluctuation continue? Regrettably, it is psychology as a result of people’s reactions and mistrust. In 1998, Korea urged its citizens to support banks, and people brought money and gold ornaments to them. I don't encourage you to do that. I am responsibly asking Ukrainian citizens to put their trust in banks. Not to take your deposits, not to do harm to yourself, not to the state, and including to support the same people as you who have received credit in the national banking system. Four. To support every Ukrainian producer whose production has a plentiful demand. The banking system should provide an impulse to support internal demand. Criterion one: A resource should be given to enterprises for which demand is made. All appropriate credits must be provided to state-owned private-capital projects. I mean, first of all, the Euro-2012 programme, the development of infrastructure, energy, communication, transport. To this end, I propose the development of an open investment programme to refinance banks by the National Bank of Ukraine. And let me underline, we have the resources for these projects. Fifth. We have to focus on the potential points of growth in the Ukrainian economy -- primarily the agrarian sphere, both small and medium-sized. In the agricultural sector, it is primarily necessary to support market pricing for the production of its own Ukrainian producer, since no investment will replace the losses that the village has incurred since the administrative regulation of Ukraine’s agricultural market. The export of 6 million tons of grain was blocked last year. Moreover, this grain killed all the elevators that refused to accept the new crop. Grain has lost a lot of class. The design has become inconvenient. The peasants lost $2 billion, twice as much of the entire APC programme foreseen by the National Budget of Ukraine. The same is true of the meat market, and so was the sunflower market. As a result, the village is flawed and depraved. So we need to stop any administrative interference with agriculture once and for all. The noise should be protected immediately from low-priced and cheap imports. I strongly object to the government’s cancelling of an allowance for the customs congregation from meat products. I am convinced that we should have learned to protect the internal market, to prove our position to all: both our partners and international economic societies. The peasant needs to provide adequate credit resources in a clear and understandable way, and the demand for products will determine everything. The activity of the agrarian fund, the State Reserve, the DAC “The Bread of Ukraine” should ensure that the main profits are obtained, not by intermediaries, but by peasants in particular. At the same time, the State is obliged to step up its search for markets for domestic products and to move them abroad. And most important. I demand that the moratorium be lifted. Moratorios, which have been imposed four times in a row, are nothing more than a new form of Ukrainian fortification. The villagers need to be released and he will save and feed all Ukraine, and he is convinced that Ukraine is not the only one. Small, medium-sized business is our main employment partner, provided with the necessary goods and services, first of all, of the Ukrainian population. This is about nearly 4 million of the most economically active citizens of Ukraine. It is they who can quickly adapt to new business conditions, and it is their enterprises that will form the basis for economic, national growth. But to do this, we need to take a number of steps, simplify regulatory restrictions on the initiation, execution and cessation of business, and make the legislative system of checks, including tax checks, work. No regulatory act should be issued without an emergency, and all necessary acts should be repealed immediately. Ukraine is a reserve for the Soviet system of standardisation and certification, which we have left only among the entire post-Radians space. All the legislative changes necessary for this are made by the President of Ukraine at the request of the “Government and Business Partners” forum and are in the Ukrainian Parliament. Respectable fellow countrymen, national deputies, members of the government, these steps can soon correct the situation in the national economy and in the social situation. Yet it's just part of the job. We need to put order in not only the household but also the entire house. So it's a political block. Let me just put it briefly: a fundamental change in the electoral system should be the basis for a quality humane renewal of power, both at the center and at the site. The existing closed proportional system has exhausted itself, destroying the effectiveness of power in general and especially local self - rule. In the absence of a proper culture of politics, it is compromised in the eyes of millions of Ukrainian citizens. Humans point to the results: the loss of a professional level by Parliament, the loss of a parliamentary mandate, the lack of communication between the national electorate and the electorate. I'll add to this list the politicization of local councils instead of solving the problems of territorial communities and the subdued role of party leaders and factions, the formation of party leaders -- all of these are the consequences of a closed proportional system. The citizens of Ukraine must be granted the right to a personalized election of deputies. Parliament is obliged as the only legislative body to ensure the implementation of electoral reform, the transition to open electoral lists in parliamentary elections, and the majority system in all local elections. People should be given the right to vote not only for a political party but also for a particular candidate. This will correct existing negative trends in the parties, while at the same time creating conditions for real political competition, political responsibility, will ensure a new quality of work for all representative bodies in the state. But that's probably not enough. We must move without delay towards the creation and implementation of a governance model by a state that meets the needs and values of Ukraine as a European state and as a modern-day challenge. Convinced that this is a matter of greatest national significance today. This will be caused by the obvious flaws of today’s public authority organization. They are primarily due to politically unthinkable and premature changes to the Constitution in 2004. Perhaps the law, which introduced the polytreform, even has four twos. In fact, these changes have distorted all the basic elements of the organization of power, replaced by the nature of local self - government by the introduction of party lists that have destroyed self - government. A dualist hybrid has been created in the executive organization, under which the influence of the President of Ukraine was limited, and the authority of the government was not balanced by responsibility to the parliamentary coalition and both together before the electorate and the people. Parliament is focused not only on lawmaking and the formation of executive power but also on the formation of the judiciary and all the leaders of the determining, constitutional and state institutions. Modern European legal doctrine does not accept such a concentration of authority in one body. I would stress that society has a clear demand for the unity of power while balancing powers between its branches. The proposals that are now echoing about the transition to essentially parliamentary or presidential forms of government are another attempt to transform power into someone and for someone. I reject any manifestation of self-centered self-centredness and attempts to usurp power. Society requires, not a strong hand, as some think, but the authority of law and order. Time to lay clear and honest criteria for the distribution of Ukrainian authority. The world has already developed appropriate models that are worth implementing in Ukraine. I propose to move to a bicameral building of the Ukrainian Parliament, while reducing the total number of people. In addition, the principle must finally be met, the requirement of people to abolish unlimited parliamentary intrusiveness. [[B in m in s a l in]] All conditions are over. It shows that most of the countries of the European continent, which are unitary, have bicameral parliaments: whether the Czech Republic, or Spain, or Poland, or France, I'm not going to talk about Belarus or the other countries, our neighbours. The State needs a Parliament of the European Model, the National Assembly of Ukraine, which will combine both political and territorial representation. The lower chamber, the Chamber of Deputies, being chosen by direct elections for a proportional system, is the body of political representation of the people. In addition to the legislative function, the lower chamber of Parliament is responsible for forming and controlling the government’s activities. Further, I am deeply convinced that the government should not be formed without the program of its activities. Failure to appoint and approve a government has resulted in the dissolution of the lower House of Parliament and its early elections. I emphasize: only the chambers, not the entire Parliament, which retains its effectiveness under any circumstances. The Supreme Chamber must be elected directly by the majority system and represent the communities and regions. The House is called upon to assume authority over personnel assignments that are not governmental, as well as the approval of all decisions taken by the President of Ukraine in the area of defence and security. An equal representation in the Senate of all regions of Ukraine, three senators from each area, will act as a unified factor. This will also be served by the age - long price of members of the upper chamber. As a result, political turbulence should remain exclusively within the lower room with its keen forms of political competition and competition. So we balance and stabilize power, we expand representative democracy, we increase decentralization processes and we increase the quality of the legislative process. With regard to the President of Ukraine. To my conviction, it is necessary to preserve the national and direct representative mandate of the head of the Ukrainian State. It is in line with the constitutional and legal status of the President as a guarantor of Ukraine's sovereignty, security and territorial integrity. The President's task is to interact with the upper chamber, to guarantee the institutional stability of the state, to determine the priorities of public policy to ensure the civil progress of the Ukrainian nation. At the same time, the Cabinet of Ministers has to be independent. The government itself must be responsible for ensuring foreign and domestic politics. The doualism of executive power must finally be overcome. I am in favour of drawing closer to the parliamentary way of forming a government, without exception or restrictions. The government must form from one source. Thus, by winning the parliamentary elections, political parties will be able to determine the composition of the government, to pursue state policy, and to fulfill their obligations to the electorate. A necessary component of constitutional reform is the reality of ensuring local self - government. The community must be at the heart of local self - government. It is in the community that basic social services are to be provided to citizens, and there is to be a clear, coherent line between the community and the region. The time had come for the decision to be made by representative bodies, district councils of their executive bodies, and to give them appropriate authority. It is the executive committees of the councils that must be responsible for the state of affairs in the region, to be accountable to the representatives of the local authorities and to the people. At this level, units of the territorial bodies of the central executive authorities should be established. Existing State administrations should be removed from the executive system and turned into effective tools for overseeing the observance of the Constitution, law, human rights and freedoms. Furthermore, the qualitative changes in local self-government are not possible without effective administrative and territorial reform, and the existing and rational system of Ukraine needs to be organized. Next. In times of judicial and legal reform, the case of exceptional national importance is to restore citizens' trust in court. Because, according to prominent philosophers of law, justice itself is the basis of social virtues and guarantees of democratic freedoms. To get closer to this goal, I call on the Supreme Council to immediately endorse the draft Ukrainian Law on the judiciary and the status of judges, which is in Parliament. Its decision will be important because it will solve the underlying problems, establish a transparent order for the selection of judges, increase the guarantees of their independence, and increase the responsibility of judges. Next. The next step is the fundamental changes in the organization of the work of law enforcement agencies. Our task is to reorient these organs to protect the interests of the authorities to protect the rights of the citizen, and to dissuade the prosecution. We have to bring about competition and procedural equality, we have to provide guarantees to the state for criminal persecution. The current practice of substituting courts should be eliminated. I urge the Ukrainian Parliament to take responsibility for my words and not give up the time to adopt the new Criminal Procedure Code. This work needs to start now with the current composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We really need to make some kind of change. These changes are not possible without a systematic update of the Ukrainian Constitution. I call on all the parliamentary political forces to work together and with respect. I confirm my position, I do it directly and publicly. I want our country to have a Constitution, not for anyone, not for politicians, but for the people of our nation, our freedom and our progress. We are in the middle of the road, and at this very difficult moment, we must approve of the updated Basic Law of Ukraine. The noble Ukrainian people, ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to convey today, following a message to the Head of the Supreme Council, a draft of the updated Constitution of Ukraine, which I request to see in the Parliament of Ukraine as urgent. Respectable compatriots! Today is the time for action. I'm ready to cooperate with anyone who supports my position and my vision of joint anti-crisis work. You know very well that I have been right to warn against unthinkable political changes and economic populism. You know very well that I have stood firm in the defense of national priorities. You know very well that I have kept all my obligations. I call for the restoration of a common political culture in Ukraine. Today’s composition of government and parliament is faced with particularly complex tasks. In your hands, the fate of the country and the speed of the crisis. Every nation that thinks about the future is taking urgent anticrisis measures. I urge you to support my program of action and unite on a common economic platform. My priorities are known to everyone. It's the only Ukrainian nation. It's a rich middle class and a protected Ukrainian person. It is a healthy society that manifests living moral, family values. It is the security of the individual and the citizen and the guaranteed protection of all our rights and freedoms. This is the stability of business without exclusions or restrictions. It is the security of the state as a full member of the Euro-Atlantic community, an equal partner and an active participant in international life and dialogue. I didn't walk away from these rules. I will continue and continue my work. I know that the truth of national standing will inevitably prevail. Trials will pass, and we will straighten our shoulders. In the early 20s of the last century, when Europe was plagued by a long crisis, a Spanish philosopher addressed his fellow citizens with the following words. If Spain is to be reborn, it must reproduce in itself a powerful, unwavering impulse to perfection. But some political reforms are certainly not enough. We need to work hard and make every effort to guide the nation toward perfection. Dear Ukraine! We are a great strong and free state. Our goal is to make a real big next step towards a better life. We're just in the middle of the road. We need to get our strengths together. We have to believe in ourselves. We need to move forward. Glory to Ukraine! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u3	Thank you, President of Ukraine, for his statement. Dear colleagues! There's a 10-minute break, and after the break, we're going to have speeches by the MPs, and we're going to keep working on the schedule. Thank you. Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u4	Invite the national deputies to the session room so that we can continue our work. Dear national deputies, we continue our work, let us welcome our colleagues Arjev Vladimir Igorovich and Klimov Leonida Mikhajlovich to our birthday, and we wish you good health and success. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, let me give you an overview of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 17 to 20 March 2009. Six plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine took place, and 90 issues of the agenda were considered. As a result of the review, 19 laws and 19 regulations, 30 bills and 2 draft regulations were adopted on the basis of 5 bills for re-reading to committees, two bills for re-admission to committees and a subsequent second reading, 15 bills and 4 draft regulations were rejected. Two laws have been rejected by the President of Ukraine, and 104 parliamentary requests have been sent to the relevant institutions. Honorary colleagues, in accordance with Rule 25 of the Rules, are given 30 minutes Tuesday for statements by authorized factions with proposals, announcements, and messages. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speech. There's a recording going on. Please put the name of the national deputies on the board. National Deputy Steshenko, please, faction. He's handing over the right to speak to Mikola Tomenko, the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u5	Dear colleagues! Because not so often we listen to the President of the country in this session room would have to say a few words about the message of the President of Ukraine. I listened carefully to the President of Ukraine's address to the citizens and to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and I will say that if Victor Yushchenko made such a statement in 2005, we would appreciate it as a statement worthy of the President, interesting and convincing. But he made this statement in 2009 and obviously we have to assume that this is the President's last speech in this sessional room, and the reforms that Victor Yushchenko has been talking about will already be carried out by the new President of Ukraine. So I wanted to draw you to the problems that Parliament, government and Ukrainian society must face today. Maybe just two more lines in the course of the President of Ukraine's speech. I have the impression that all the presidents of Ukraine, and in modern times there were three and two exactly when problems arose, mentioned the second chamber. I think it's a bad symptom. Friends! Let's keep these chambers to ourselves and think about how to make a functioning parliament, government and work together. And so is the second wish for the President's team: don't torture this administrative and territorial reform! Yesterday a special municipal meeting was to carry out administrative and territorial reform. Go to the village and ask how people react to this, that you will reduce the number of village councils. We're here in the Supreme Council, and we've given the basic rights back to the village councils, so they can verify a person's signature, and you're talking about, at budget costs, you collect hundreds of people and you're talking about how to reduce the number of rural councils. In the face of today's crisis, I think we should forget about the word "administrative-territorial reform". We need to think about how to solve more complex and urgent problems. But now about today. I'm absolutely convinced that we have to understand that without real, serious steps, when everyone doesn't think and decide how to deal with the crisis, we can't do anything. Therefore, from our faction a great request today either to support unpopular but important bills or not to interfere with this work. I'm absolutely confident that small business will understand us, and big business, when we say, friends, you can't go through a crisis and you can't pay a small business today at the Pension Fund for six hundred and seventy dollars. Well, we don't understand it anymore and we're having a political discussion here about what we have problems with, and a small business isn't going to survive if it's going to pay for the Pension Fund. If we want to protect the country today, we have to say that all the levels here are in our rights. Personal pensions, by the way. I'll tell you, our government decided in 2005 to abolish personal pensions, big pensions. People's deputies and the President appealed to the Constitutional Court, citing the Constitutional Court's decision about, the President said it violated the constitutional rights of citizens, so there is no need to reduce large personal pensions in 2005. So, friends, let's be principled in our position and our position is that if we want to protect all pensioners today, we have to take unpopular steps. Just as unpopular steps should be taken in the field of alcohol and tobacco excises. Just as unpopular steps should be taken by protecting energy security and Naftogaz. As for agriculture, it was the position of the President's Secretariat, which we don't understand, because today the agrarian fund is the only tool to get loans for the village during spring-field jobs. So we would also like to pay attention to this and support all those who are struggling, not just to make the village work, but to survive during this challenging spring and summer. Finally, I want to say, my friends, the crisis requires us to change the philosophy of our actions. It's probably worth our citizens and business to live not just one day, but politicians should not think about just one day of elections, think about tomorrow, but think about what politicians will think about the next day after the election. So, God forbid, today we should adopt the laws that society expects of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u6	Alexandre Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u7	I give the word to the leader of the faction of the Party of the Regions, Victor Fedorovich Janukovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u8	Victor Fedorovich Janukovic, faction of the Party of Regions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u9	Dear Ukrainian people! Dear National Deputies! You and I are very often in the regions, and we know that living in the regions is very different from what the authorities in Ukraine are doing today. And it's made up of the impression that I've repeatedly said that there are two countries, there's a country where power lives and there's a second country where the Ukrainian people live. When you hear a statement from the government or a statement from the President, surely an inexperienced person thinks, and what is not enough today, so well said, is an anti-crisis program or a plan that consists of two parts: economic and political. But the answer to that question is simple: Who will do it? That's the first one. And the second. And who saw her or who looked at her? Ukraine may be the only country in the world that does not have a proper plan of action or response to the situation in the country. Why did this happen because at first it was said that there was no crisis at all, that Ukraine would be bypassed or that we would not let it into Ukraine. We're wrong. As a result, they weren't expected, they weren't ready. When the crisis came, what is required today? Industry demands that they lower their loans. Industry requires that taxes or taxes not be raised. What suggestions are being made, including today’s daytime? Raise taxes, raise excise collection. The economy can't last today if we go this way. First of all, there must be a discussion here in this room. And you and I, dear colleagues, need to look together at a programme of action to respond to the crisis that is in the country today. Without adequate response, we will never see tomorrow. And I agree with Mikola Tomenka's statement that we need to think, not how to live today, but how to live tomorrow, and how to live before and after the elections. We know with you that today, until the political situation in the country stabilizes, there will be no economic situation. Until a viable coalition is established in Parliament, the government will not work. Various estimates can be made for the work of today’s government. There are, as they say, both objective and subjective reasons. Those working in governments know well that without the support of the majority in Parliament it is impossible to work effectively for the government. [[And here the half room worked in different governments.]] And the subjective reasons are that in fact the government is a temporary government that sits and doesn't know when they say it will retire. That's why there's no set-up for tomorrow, and that's why the government can't work effectively under these conditions. So, dear fellows, we certainly need to look to the future with us. And the proposal that the President made today about the changes to the Constitution, I think this proposal came a little late. But in September last year, we made a proposal to create a Temporary Constitutional Commission, and now we're proposing, Your Honor, let's create this commission together and let it start working. If it is not the composition of this Parliament, the composition of another parliament that will be re-elected, it will be the legal successor of this commission. We are well aware that without changes to the Constitution it is impossible to organize an effective work of authority. We know if we don't protect the region and we don't give them the opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u10	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u11	To solve most of the questions and to meet the challenges that are now in the country and in the world, we will abuse the regions. You and I also know very well that we need to choose the leaders in the regions. You and I know exactly what people today expect from the electoral system. We should also answer that question. So a proposal from the Party of Regions that broke out last week, and we organized protest campaigns throughout Ukraine, involving about 200,000 people. She's not taking off the agenda. And we're going to do a variety of things to make sure that the current power is changed in the country, that eventually there's an effective coalition and an effective government that's responsible to the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u12	Oleg Zabrubinski, the Lithuanian Block, is invited to the presentation. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u13	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Unlike a totalitarian society, a form of civic activity that manifests itself either in the hot support and wisdom of leaders or in professionally directed glamours of unreliable, democratic regimes actually allow people to express their views freely on the various problems of economic, social, political life. And this is a norm and a common phenomenon for civilized nations. The Ukrainian realities have produced a new distorted form of social movement organization, when billionaire oligarchs take part in the destruction of national dissatisfaction, which have become the result of the work of all these people, whom they call for barricades, and the cynical cleaning of factories, factories, mines -- all of which have been created by generations of our citizens. And the structures that are the content of the political envelopes of financial and oligarchic groups and clans provide them with the coverage of slogans, calls, advocacy and propaganda products. Perhaps it is time to sell a large number of private planes worth tens of millions of dollars each and ocean yachts of 100 million euros purchased on account of the primitive exploitation of cheap Ukrainian labor, the return of money from offshore and even a little bit of the division of losses from the crisis with ordinary people. Is it reasonable to imagine that Bill Gates, Donald Trump, or George Soros were doing the same thing as the Ukrainian oligarchs? What is the purpose of the systematic provocation of complete destabilization in Ukraine? In the face of serious crisis in the financial and economic sphere, which has led to a marked downturn in the value of not being “accepted” public and municipal property, this goal is to remove as quickly as possible the last thing left unscathed. Calls to combat the power of those who are totally and truly in the entire region of the country and who control 70 percent of the country's economy, nothing other than blasphemy and the desire to prevent the human displeasure of local, regional and major economic authorities. Although it would be logical and moral to call for a change of all authority, they would begin with themselves and lay down all their mandates and mandates, and their bosses would not be so keen to return to such a familiar and regular budget clock. This is also the aim of a systematic manipulation campaign in controlled media to push Ukraine to thirds of the last three years of parliamentary elections. It's a good thing that in part of the oranges for the audience of opponents, and in fact of the old partners and friends, the same goal is the same as the other's motive, to get to the presidential elections with truths and lies to come to Parliament and lie here when the President's change is to lie here under the veil of inviolability. [[The second one's better than the ……]] Is there any part of the national interest in these plans? No, extremely narrowly grouped and, most importantly, personal interest. In the context of what is said, the desire and attempt to paralyze the only legislative and higher representative body of the country -- a parliament whose work is perceived as a bone in the throat for all interested in fully destabilizing the situation in the country or for those who think that it will divert the attention of citizens from all the already understandable self-worth. Paradoxically, but the main critics and experts on how Parliament is supposed to work, as it is not absurd, are those who, by defiance of their duty to work conscientiously here in the Supreme Council, “past” the money of the oligarchs and tell everyone how to live, or those who are simply not personally able to work, are not prepared for legislative work. However, both the first and the second have demonstrated their complete helplessness and incompetence in the Supreme Council. The Lithuanian bloc does not accept and deny the provocation of social destabilization as a means of fighting for power. The government, at all costs, is not a credo of statesmen, but adventurers. The way to stabilize and improve the lives of Ukrainian citizens is not all in war against everyone but in the common concern of daily work, a positive work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u14	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, a faction of Communists, has the floor. Next up will be Mikola Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, we have had a unique opportunity with you to hear the aria of the overseas guest from the farewell tours of the artist. I propose to take a decision, and to grant his request for an additional, additional chamber, even with all the amenities. But life goes on. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Ukraine's company informs you that the Brussels Declaration, more specifically, is an energy conspiracies that the orange authorities have made with the EU last week, and in fact with the EU and the United States, is an element of the great geopolitical adventure of the West that will lead to catastrophic socio-economic consequences, primarily for ordinary Ukrainian citizens. First, after the agreement was concluded, the President and the Government made commitments that actually opened the way for the bankruptcy of NAK Naftogaz. With the loss of a strategic monopoly, the state will lose any control over the situation in the internal gas market, and the national industry, housing and utilities, the population of Ukraine will be held hostage by private gas traders, who will be parasites at prices and tariffs, parasites on ordinary people. Secondly, the Brussels Agreement foresees that the modernization of the Ukrainian gas transport system takes place through billions of external loans. Who's going to give them away? Of course, not the oligarchs in your pockets. The entire burden will lie on the shoulders of the workers of Ukraine, because the commitments made by the orange nationalists and billionaires to the International Monetary Fund and the European Union provide for a multiple increase in prices and tariffs for blue gold. Moreover, foreign loans will go through strategic gas infrastructures, government assets will be mortgaged, and Ukraine and our people will be collateralized. And when the oligarchs steal Western loans, like the first tranche of the IMF, they let the state out of the hammer. Thirdly, the Brussels Declaration stipulates that Ukraine undertakes to ensure the profitability of foreign investments in our GTS. This is only possible if the tariff on transit of Russian gas into Europe is substantially increased, which is contrary to already established Ukrainian-Russian gas agreements by 2019. Thus, having fulfilled its obligation to the EEC, Ukraine unilaterally denounces arrangements with Russian partners. As a result, an increase in the price of Russian medium-Asian gas for Ukraine can be expected. Once again a blow to our economy, a blow to ordinary people, to workers, a rise in prices, a decline in production, unemployment, poverty. Dear citizens, I would like to remind everyone that Ukrainian GTS is not just hundreds of kilometers of pipes and billions of cubes of underground shelters, it is technically and economically an integral part of the only gas transport system of the former Soviet Union, but now Ukraine, Russia and the EU. And if Europe and the United States were really interested in modernising the Ukrainian GTS, strengthening the status of Ukraine, these issues would be resolved only on a tripartite basis. And it's natural, it's a gas supplier -- Russia, it's a transitor -- Ukraine, and it's a consumer -- the European Union. What took place in Brussels is evidence that today’s Ukrainian authorities began with Yuschenk simply a puppet in the geopolitical game of the West, which uses in its interests the struggle of clans for gas rents and Russianophobic policies of Ukrainian cave nationalists. What do the Communists offer? First of all, the negotiations with Russia on the strategic issues of the energy security of our countries, such as the creation of an international consortium for the management of our gas transport system, need to be resumed immediately. Next, we require the government to provide information on the actual content of the documents signed in Brussels. This will allow us to have a constructive dialogue with our neighbors, our partners. We insist on the immediate adoption of the Law on the Principles of Internal and External Politics. I call on the people's deputies, first of all the members of the Party of the Regions, who, in words, supports the resignation of the orange team and President Yushchenk, to confirm the seriousness of their intentions and to place signatures under the Company for the initiation of the impeachment procedure and this procedure should begin. We also insist on adopting appropriate changes to the Constitution. And most importantly, you and I -- I'm talking to colleagues of the people's deputies -- we need to immediately adopt a law on a moratorium on gas tariffs for the population and utilities. This is vital to millions of Ukrainian families. And the last. In the fall of 38, France and England made a treaty with Nazi Germany that opened the way for her to aggression against humanity and our people. In Brussels, the EU and the United States made an agreement with Ukrainian nationalists that paves the way for further occupation of Ukraine and Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u16	Let me finish. Please continue. Are you all right, Peter Mikolaiovich? Martinenko Mikola Volodymyrovich, faction of "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u17	Dear Head, dear colleagues! March 23, this year, was an important date for our nation and its energy security. A joint declaration between Ukraine and the European Union on the modernization of our gas transport system was signed in Brussels. This makes it clear that the Ukrainian GTS is and will remain the state property of Ukraine. Indeed, arrangements with the European Union are beneficial and necessary for Ukraine. At the same time, however, we face new challenges. I would like to highlight three key aspects of the adoption of the declaration on the Ukrainian gas transport system. First, over the years, we have finally received considerable political support from the European Union and in this important gas issue for us. Secondly, so far we have only a declaration of intent and political advance from the European Union and international banking structures. It is the development and implementation of a specific plan for reforming our gas sector. Without this, Ukraine will receive no Euroscene. Thirdly, the joint declaration produced a mixed reaction in both the European Union and Russia, but as always, because the pipe has two ends, one in Russia and the other in the EU. We also had skeptic scores. But who in Ukraine against the modernization of the Ukrainian gas transport system, who is against joining Europe’s energy community? I think there's no one in this room because it's not politics. It's about the economy, it's about the national interests of the state. The reform of our gas sector in line with EU legislation is long overdue. Each previous government put it aside, generating new problems. But the existing gas market model has exhausted itself and still cannot work. The development and adoption of a bill on the principles of the functioning of the natural gas market should be the most important task for both the government and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The deadlines recorded in the declaration for 2010-2011 are quite acceptable. We'll be able to pass the bill and carry out major reforms. Because both the government and the profile committee already have some work to do. As for Russia's reaction to Brussels documents. For professionals, there is no secret about what did not govern the Russian leadership. First, the most negative response was Ukraine's intention to allow EU member countries to purchase transit gas in our territory. Russia is now selling its gas to European partners in the western border of Ukraine. Yes, as if the Soviet Union still exists. Justice must be restored and Ukraine put back on the map of Europe as a subject, not an object of the European gas market. Secondly, the Russian leadership does not like the intention of Ukraine to increase its GTS capacity by 60 billion cubic metres of gas per year. Even if you imagine that Russia is implementing all the gas pipelines, and the probability of this is nearing zero, Ukraine will remain the largest transitor. However, in order to increase the capacity of the GTS, we certainly need to negotiate in the format of the European Union-Ukraine-Russia. I think we need another conference on this gas triangle. And if Russia confirms its desire to participate in the modernization of the GTS, it should be included in the principles set out in the Declaration, on the principles of equal partnership, not political requirements. And the last. The Declaration on the Modernization of the GTS strongly demonstrated that when the Ukrainian authorities act in a consolidated way, when both the President and the Government work together, they are successful for Ukraine. I hope this good tradition lasts. Now both the head of state and the government and the Supreme Council are facing an important and difficult task of reforming the national gas sector. We need to work together, work clearly, and systematically. Ukraine must show itself to be a responsible and effective partner. These are the issues that must stand in the order of the day and of the Supreme Council, and of the whole state, not of the political shows that are already deadly to the people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u18	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich, you too. Dear colleagues! The statements from the factions have been completed, for example, the proposals that have been made in the statements, the statements, the reports I ask the secretariat to prepare the respective assignments. Dear colleagues! Let us now consider the issues set out in the schedule for Tuesday, March 31. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Excise Assembly Rates on Tobacco Products is being announced for consideration. [[on Surplanned Income to the State Budget]] Registration number 4202, second reading. Reporter of the Vice-President of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Lásko Oleg Valeriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u19	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Budget Issues prepared for the second reading of Bill 4202, which included a number of amendments. A total of 14 amendments were made. Some of them are counted, some of them are rejected. With regard to the observations of the General Legal Office submitted to this bill, we propose, with a view to ensuring clarity in the application of the provisions of the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on excise matters and taking into account the conclusions of the Supreme Council's General Legal Office, we propose in paragraph 1 of paragraph 2, section one of the draft after the words “specific rates of excise collection”. [[Registration – 4202]] Such addition would allow for a clear interpretation of the legislative rules and would not change the impact of the bill on the income part of the budget. Vladimir Mikhailovich, as amended.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, now we're going to amend. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u21	The first amendment is included.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u22	Then let's move on, second amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u23	The second amendment is included in another edition. The third amendment is included. The fourth amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u24	Do the fourth amendment urge the authors of the national deputy Kruglov, Kinakh and Teryohin to vote on it? I can't see.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u25	The fifth amendment is counted. Sixth repair.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u26	Now, one minute. The fifth count.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u27	Six counts. Seven counts. Eight is rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u28	No, one minute. Eighth Amendment, People's Deputies Kruglov, Kinakh, Teryohin, do you insist on this amendment? No, I can't see.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u29	The ninth is counted. The tenth is rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u30	Viacheslav Kaskiv, are you insisting on your amendment? No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u31	Eleven turned down.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u32	Kaskov doesn't insist on his amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u33	Twelve counts. Thirteen turned down.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u34	National MP Burlakov, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, I would very much like to vote on this amendment, because it is a matter of principle. Even by applying such draconian measures, which are in this law, it will be possible for manufacturers to redesign themselves. So I ask you to put to the vote, I insist, my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u36	The committee proposes to reject this amendment because it contradicts the previous amendments that have been taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, please note that the draft law provides for the introduction of this law, which is that it takes effect on May 1st, the Burlakov People's Deputy proposes from September 1st. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm asking you to determine by vote. [[11:34:04]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u38	Fourteen is partially counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u39	National Deputy Karpuk, please insist on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u40	Vladimir Karpuk, deputy group “For Ukraine”. In the Final Situations, I suggested that these costs, which will be derived from the increase in excise duty on tobacco products, should be directed primarily towards the implementation of state health programmes, treatment and prevention of cardiovascular, cancer, the State programme “Child Oncology”, the State programme “Reproductive Health”. However, in the final version proposed by the committee, there is no indication of the percentage and at the same time the financial support of agribusiness enterprises and the development of a road network. I'm still insisting on this figure 80 percent, because health care is now in a very difficult state of funding, and this is exactly what will help fund state programs that are important.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u41	Dear Mr. Karpuk, distinguished national MPs! In the twelfth amendment, which is included and is foreseen for part of the additional cost of increasing excise duties, direct to primary measures and health care programmes, such as cancer, cardiovascular, vascular diseases, health care to combat tuberculosis, prevention and treatment of AIDS. Programmes and funding volumes are established by the State Budget Act. And we recommend that Kabina change the budget to take into account that this money goes only to these programs. But the percentages and the names of the programs, as President Viktor Yushchenko of Ukraine has just said, are 300 programs in the country. So let the government determine what percentage of the program: how much for oncology, how much for cardiovascular disease. We cannot replace ourselves with the Ministry of Health in this regard. Therefore, a fellow of honor! We have taken into account and during the preparation of the budget, we invite you to the committee and together we will determine these percentages. It's just in the law that we can't do that. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u42	Dear colleagues! Do you insist on voting on this amendment? Since the national deputy Karpuk insists on voting on his amendment, which is partly counted, I am voting on Amendment No. 14 of colleague Karpuk. [[11:37:04]] For-39 The decision is not supported. And just to be clear, we don't have 300, we have 200 programs. One hundred short.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u43	Dear Volodymira Mihajlovich, I would like to ask you to put to the vote before the Supreme Council a decision on the adoption of this law on second reading and in general, I would like to say for the transcript once again that we propose to take into account the observations of the General Legal Administration and in paragraph 3 of section 1 of the draft after the words “specific rates of excise collection” add the words “which are calculated in solid amounts with the unit of the goods, products”. Furthermore, in view of the changes in the law on excise duty rates on tobacco products, article 1.3 is presented in a new edition, and article 2 is deleted, according to the proposal of the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council in preparation for the signing of the Supreme Council, the prescribed law should be laid down in a new edition in order to comply with the rules of regulatory technology. Thank you and ask the Supreme Council to support this bill. This is an extremely important bill that will first allow us to reduce the number of people who smoke and, as a result, then suffer from tobacco-induced diseases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u44	Thank you. Dear colleagues, a committee proposal is put to the vote. Please cancel the vote, please sign in for five minutes. Five minutes of motive. There's a recording going on. Please put the name of the national MPs on the board. Moisik Volodymir Romanovich, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u45	Carpuch. Please pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u46	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” Our parliamentary group and faction support this bill to increase excise congregations on tobacco products. This bill will allow an additional 3.7 billion dollars to be added to the budget. Of course, we realize that there will be some problems for manufacturers of tobacco products that are in Ukraine, particularly with the payment of customs, with their employment. Yet this bill is aimed at reducing the consumption of tobacco products in Ukraine, tobacco. And that's pretty important, because in Ukraine, because of tobacco-related diseases, more than 100,000 people die each year, more than 100,000 people get heart attacks, strokes, cancer. And this is a European practice by increasing the excise congregation to reduce the amount of tobacco in countries. So our faction will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u47	The national deputy Schmelov is referring the right to speak to Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u48	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Honorable colleagues and respected voters, those who tell you that they care about your health, are lying to you! It's not about health, it's about 3.7 billion dollars in the government budget. It's because the price goes up that someone quits, doesn't quit, it's going to burn, but it's going to be at the expense of their own budget. On December 25th, we're already on 17 copies, more faithfully, you've raised the excise tax by 17 copies, and in the last five and a half years, that's the fourth increase, but here, even in the explanatory notes, it's been raised by 17 to 18 copies -- it's small, it's now raised by the time, it's going to raise the price on each packet by 1 bracelet and 6 copies at the expense of who, at the expense of a simple person's budget. Therefore, there is no need to lie about your health. If we are concerned about health, let us support the proposal to ban smoking altogether and to ban tobacco production. This will be health care then.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u49	National Deputy Komar, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please. You don't? Oh, come on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u50	Thank you. It's working. Please give the floor to Deputy Konovaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u51	Valerius Konovaluk, faction of the Party of the Regions. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u52	Thank you. Valerius Konovaluk, Party of Regions. Dear colleagues, today's debate called the anti-crisis package of drafts, well, we should be able to call it our own words, because there is no understanding in these bills of crisis overcoming and securing the income part of the budget. We've been through this. And I can tell you that there's going to be a significantly reduced tax base. And of these excises, we're going to get even less money in the budget, which is what we're going to get right now. So not to be considered, you know, not only will it be useful for citizens to strengthen their own health, to reduce smoking there, but these steps by the government, they point out that there is no understanding of how to get out of this country, how to adjust our lives, and how to provide for Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u53	National Deputy Unguryan, faction of the Timoshenko Yulia Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u54	Unguran Pavlov, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, this is an extremely important bill because today billions of cigarettes, billions of tobacco products are used by citizens of Ukraine. And most of all, our Ukrainian youth, teenagers, are suffering because prices are or are not the lowest in the world that are available to children, to young people, and to teenagers, unfortunately today. So today this bill is extremely important, which will allow us to reduce the flow of smuggling from Ukraine of tobacco products and will be able to settle prices, balance them with prices in the world. That is why it needs to be supported today, because all the costs that we can charge are directed primarily to health care, to support the agricultural sector, to support other real-economy sectors. So we urge the entire BIT faction to support this bill as vital to the country’s health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u55	Taras Blackwall, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, we all understand two things. On the one hand, we need to fight smoking as a harmful habit and avoid new smokers. The other one. We understand that we need to fill the budget. In this bill, he is presented, and two of these motives appear to be mildly blurred. The moment of fighting seems naive and ridiculous and more work - related grants than a serious smoking - reduction factor. That is why it is doubtful. With regard to the second point, it was necessary to say honestly: “Law in order to fill the budget.” Doubts also arise here. The project’s authors wrote in an explanatory note that the September project had already provided an additional income of 1 billion. Why not continue to step up the excise duty, as stipulated by the law in force, why do things that are unforeseeable today, perhaps because of an increase in smuggling, perhaps due to a move to the gray market? Why do we make the laws worse and not improve them?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. May I have your attention, please? Once again, dear colleagues, before the vote, we will realize, yes, that this law is necessary to complete, but at the same time, when we adopt changes to the State budget, let's anticipate that 100 percent of these costs go to the top of the line and health care, cancer, cardiovascular, vascular, vascular, tuberculosis, prevention and treatment of AIDS, financial support for the APC and the development of a road network. Only for these needs. I am voting on the proposal for a second reading committee and, as a whole, as a law, taking into account the comments of the Chief Legal Administration of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Excise Assembly Fees on Tobacco Products, registration number 4202. [[Roads and Bridges]] [[on Surplanned Income to the State Budget]] Please vote. [[11:46:36]] For 241 The law is passed. By factions, please: Region Party – 0, “Club of Timoshenko” – 155, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 66, Communists – 0, “Block of Lithuania” – 20. Dear colleagues, we must now consider the draft Law on Local Taxes and Congregations. At the same time, the heads of the local councils request a further consideration of this law, since not all their proposals are considered. And we agreed with you that we would make a final decision when we had an agreed position with the advisory board on local self - government issues. Is there no objection to the postponement of the hearing? Thank you. Dear colleagues, we must now consider the chapter “To be included in the agenda and decision-making”. So I will now put to the vote a proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the bill. May I have your attention, please? It is up to the vote to include in the agenda a bill amending certain laws of Ukraine on excise matters, 4265 and 4265-1. [[government]] [[Alternative, People's Deputy Teryohin]] Please vote. [[11:48:27]] For 231 Questions are included in the agenda. Let's move on to the bill. Dear colleagues, the proposal is, we have out of the many issues that we have to consider today, the first suggestion that we continue the evening session until the conclusion of the consideration of the issues set out in the schedule for today. Please vote on this proposal. [[11:49:05]] For 202 The decision is not taken. Then it's a second offer. So that we can look at what we agreed on at the Conciliation Council to consider bills on a simplified basis. Please vote. [[11:49:30.]] For 201 Decision taken. A draft Act amending some of Ukraine’s laws on excise matters is being announced for consideration. Registration numbers 4265 9 government), 4265-1. [[MP]] Reporters: Deputy Finance Minister Merkovsky Anatoly Ivanovich and Terjehohin Sergey Anatoliyovich. Please. Anatoly Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u58	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! You are being reviewed by a draft law prepared by the government to amend the tax collection of certain types of goods. The goal of the bill. The aim is to introduce a single approach to alcohol taxing, alcohol-added alcohol, excise duty rates for alcoholic beverages and diesel fuel to the levels of neighbouring countries, and usually to provide additional supplies. coming to the State budget. I would like to say that the largest amount of funds that are expected to be added is from the excise congregation for alcohol and vodka products. In the second half of the year, an estimated 1 billion dollars is expected. In fact, it's proposed to increase. More loyally implement before the applicable law sets out the congregation’s 34 bracelet rate of 1 liter of 100 percent alcohol. So we're not increasing the bet, but we're getting close to an active one. The second position relates to an increase in the rate of excise duty on diesel fuel. Because this has been the case since 2003. These increases have not taken place, and diesel prices have increased almost twice as much as the cost of raw materials has decreased. And the price of excise duty, the retail price of diesel will actually increase from 5 percent to 8 percent. It is also expected to increase excise duties on some wines, such as the wine of the game — from 1.6 bracelets to 2.5 bracelets per liter of wine, one and a half times. And the price of excise duty will increase from 5 percent to 8 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u59	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u60	It is also envisaged that the indexation of the excise congregation be established. In general, the bill is worth 1.3 billion dollars. One thing I would like for the stenographer, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, is for us to rule out two positions in preparation for the final vote and eventually to exclude the increase in excise duty on natural wines and vermouths. And leave these stakes of the excise congregation at the level that works today. Ask me to support this bill as a whole, in the first reading and in general, taking into account the amendments I've made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u61	But, at the same time, I want to say that the committee is only offering to accept. Let's find a common position. Sergey Anatolyovich Teryohin, please head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u62	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. In my report, I want to prove these basic alternatives to the government bill and the ones under the government bill. The purpose of the alternative bill is the same as the government bill, but some other approaches to its achievement. The main difference is that its standards are in line with the main producers of excise goods in Ukraine, which is why they are real budget arrivals and jobs. The bill was prepared on the basis of the debate we had on the committee with the producers of these products. From the second half of the year, it is possible to set the excise duty rates for winemaking and alcohol and liquor in size, virtually identical to the government’s. But this suggests that article 7 of the Act should be redrafted – and set temporarily from July 1st to June 30th 10th, i.e. by setting a transitional period for the introduction of the new rates proposed by the government. The mechanism for indexing these rates depends on the consumer price index, similar to the one proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers, but it is proposed to be implemented on January 1, 11. It is also proposed that from November 9th of the year, excise duty rates on heavy distillates, gas, depending on the sulphur content, are practically identical to that of the government. Regrettably, there is no pension tax program in Ukraine that is provided for the needs of the village and the LHK. Aware of the issue of peasants and LHCs, the bill envisages the task of the Urdu to develop and submit proposals to the Supreme Council for the further introduction of rules on the taxation of fuel-oil materials in accordance with the EU Energy Tax Directive, with mandatory introduction of the tax credit for diesel supplied for rural activities, or the production of heat and electricity for the needs of the LHC. According to the calculations given to you, the adoption of this bill will allow for an increase of 1.6 billion dollars in income.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u63	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u64	Thank you. So 300 million more financial resources for the State budget than the government is offering. According to the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, both bills can be taken as a basis. I can tell you that this bill is also fully supported by the Association of Soviets and the Committee of Vinegars and Vinegars. But in view of the fact that the bill is in a package of crisis measures needed to reconcile with the International Monetary Fund, yesterday the government held a meeting, this is the IMF mission on which the mission insists on adoption in the first reading of the government project. That's why I told you what the committee decided, but I'm personally proposing on the first reading to adopt a government bill. And then I'll finish taking into account the negotiations with the industry. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u65	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion. There's a recording of the performance. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. National Deputy Arzhevtin, faction of our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u66	Xenia Leapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u67	Xenia Leapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u68	Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine”. We support this bill on the basis, but at the same time we point out that it is unacceptable today to increase significantly the excise duty on natural wines because they are made from our Ukrainian winery, and actually from our Ukrainian grapes. And so we're talking about our former, agrarian farms in our southern regions, and they're saying that if we raise this excise in this way, we're just going to ruin their lives and their jobs. People will be out of a job. This is not the goal of our activity. If we want to fill our budget, we need to fill it in such a way that we do not ruin our jobs. That's why we support it, but right now we're paying attention to what we have in mind and we're going to suggest that we remove this proposed by the government now to raise excise duty precisely on natural wines.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u69	Thank you. Please, who's next? Schmellow, the Communist faction. Mikola Kravchenko, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u70	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. I'm in charge of filling the budget, I'm in charge of paying the people from the budget, but I can't agree with the approaches in any way. As soon as there's not enough money, where are we going? For liqueurs and tobacco products. We have long proposed: during this anti-crisis period, let us declare a state monopoly on vodka and tobacco products. According to preliminary estimates, a minimum of eight billion revenues will be secured. I can't accept that we have this anti-crisis package. It's a hole patch. And to be honest, we don't talk about the real economy in law. We're not talking about how big business kills small and medium-sized businesses. We will not create the conditions for the development of the internal market at all. We are absolutely not in charge of price regulation and declaration. We have not introduced government regulation of prices for coke, coal, that is to say that today it determines the level of basic prices. Therefore, it is not possible to say that we are considering a set of anti-crisis laws today. To date, we have said absolutely nothing about the fact that, in these circumstances, we are drifting away from our domestic policies, foreign policies, and return. The signing of the anti-Russian Protocol of intentions under the GTS is an indicator of our inconsistent policy towards Russia. And that's where we lose the market.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u71	Thank you. Alexy Plotnikov, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u72	Dear Head, the Honourable People's Deputies! There are two significant points to this bill. First of all, it's supposed to raise excise duty rates in bracelets per unit of goods, and that's three times the blame. And it's further predicted that annual indexes of consumer prices have been made over the past 12 months. As a result of this indexation, the rates of excise duty are rounded to two decimal places. So if you look at two positions, the first position is impact on the right field, agriculture is already suffering. Even after this practice, it is not clear what will happen. There is no need to translate into agriculture the problem of the country’s common crisis. And the second position simply cannot be taken seriously because even pensions and wages are not so indexed as the excise congregation is supposed to index. So there's a proposal for the results of the first reading of the bill to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u73	Two factions can use one minute at a time. Oleg Lazko and who, Oleg Zarubinski. Oleg Light Mike, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u74	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The second bill that we're looking at because of the anti-crisis package is the one that's focused primarily on ensuring the health of citizens, reducing the consumption of vodka, including non-quality vodka, which we have a lot in Ukraine. And secondly, it's filling the budget's income. We propose to take into account the amendment of the People's Deputy of Lapiny and to remove from the bill the rule concerning dry wines and vermouth. And vote on the bill as a whole. It is discussed for vodka to be, that is, dry wine to be removed and voted on as a whole. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u75	Please, Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u76	Dear colleagues! I understand the desire to vote on this bill as a whole, but here's the question, I want to draw your attention to the difference between a government project and a parliamentary project. See what an increase in excise duty of 35 euros is in the MP’s. For diesel fuel, which is the most quality, you know. If there are 30 euros in the government project, there are 35 euros in the parliamentary project. For example, they do not have high - quality diesels, such as those that are not so clean, and they do. That's why. No, not the same. Don't tell me. So it seems to me that the point of increasing the most high-quality diesel is not quite accurate, given what the predecessor said about ecology, health care, and so on. On the basis of that, you can certainly accept it, but you still have to work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u77	Dear colleagues! Everybody here? Now I'm going to put the committee's proposal to the vote in order for the bill to come. A proposal is made by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the issue of the excise congregation. Registration number 4265 is government. Please vote. Governmental. [[12:04:10]] For 226 Decision taken. Please, Alexander the Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u78	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, honourable colleagues, is the next proposal to exclude from the law what was proposed by national MPs, natural wines and Vermutti. As far as diesel is concerned, not from October 1st, but from November 1st and vote in general now this law, natural, natural wines, honourable colleagues, and Vermouth.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention, please calm down. There's been a suggestion that now, as was suggested, from this list, my dear colleagues, I'm going to Xenia Leapina. Dear colleagues, would you agree, that the proposal was for Kseniya Lapina, to remove natural wines, and also to establish that excise duties have been on the rise since 1 November 2009. And that's how we vote in general. There is a denial, please, Terjehochin, if there are any other objections, I understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, you can take this approach, but there are two more places in a difficult situation, it's our Moroccan wines, it's "Coctebel", it's "Massandra". So it's suggested to add, remove the increase, the so-called Moroccan wines, I'm going to say that's what this is. These are wines that are fixed by grape or ethyl alcohol, which have for ethyl alcohol for one and a half years of stamina, and for grapes for two years. Then we film the problem with the pearls of our industry. And with that kind of correction, we're going to need the committee to work out the codes, so obviously we can adopt this bill as a whole. In this position, there are no resources in the budget, there are about 20 million in the Magarets, there are Coquettebels, and there are Masandras, but they have to be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u81	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, be a moose.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u82	Jaroslav Dry Party of Regions, Zaporozhye Dear colleagues! I certainly welcome the majority’s efforts to improve the budget. But I want to pay attention to yours, Vladimir Mikhailovich, here's what. Look, it's about alcohol. You remember, well, you remember that well, we didn't reflect on it for the first year, because it's going to bring about an increase in the price of alcohol-containing drugs, how do you say in Ukrainian, "deserts", "Corvalos", "Barbovals" and so on. Or to make an amendment here, let Sergey Terhochin somehow go to the committee that it doesn't apply to drugs, because immediately the alcohol used in the pharmaceutical industry will grow up three times. Even today, for a simple person, it is the only heart medium: “Carvalol”, “Borboval”, or other insistences on alcohol. It's not worth it!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u83	Yeah, all the suggestions, right? Dear colleagues! Please, Alexander the Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u84	Dear National Deputies! Once again, I call your attention to the proposal supported by the government, and we ask you to vote on the legislative act, namely: we take down the proposal of the national MPs of the honourable wines natural and Maroque, we also delete the Vermuts. And from November 1st, we're going to include the diesel excise, or we're going to continue the term when the old excise is working. In such a concept, in such a way, respectable colleagues, anything we can, we've taken down, because otherwise there's no point in adopting the law. In this case, alcohol is used exclusively for medicines without any increase in excise duty. Mr. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, this is what we ask to put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, generally offerings. It is now being proposed by both the government and the national MPs to adopt the project in second reading and generally as a law, removing "natural wines and wine, plus vermouth". Yeah? The other one. Foresee the increase in excise duties on diesel from November 1, 2009, as well as the offer of Jaroslav Suhogo, who does not increase excise duty on that alcohol, only on the alcohol that is released for medicine. And with that in mind, put to the vote to adopt the law. Once again, I stress for the protocol, to support the proposal of the government and national MPs to delete: “natural wines, Moroccan wines, plus vermouths”. To predict an increase in excise duties on diesel from first November 2009 and not an increase in excise duty on alcohol, which is directed at the production of medicines. With this in mind, I would like to vote on the second reading and, as a whole, as a bill amending some of the laws of Ukraine on excise matters, registration number 4265, please vote. [[12:10:29]] For 230 The law is passed. Thank you. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, if you'll excuse me, there's a break until 12:40.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u86	Invite the national deputies to the session room so that we can continue our work. I totally agree with you that there should be no attributes in the session room, but, you see, the attributes are, I can't do anything, unfortunately. Dear colleagues, we continue our work, invite MPs, we must now vote so that we do not return to the vote, because no one will violate the Rules. Please make an announcement. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now continuing our consideration of the drafts, but for starters, we need to put them in the agenda and then make our decision. Please prepare for the vote. Yes, there is now a motion for the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009 and some other laws of Ukraine. [[on urgent measures to ensure Ukraine's energy security]] [[Registration number 4266]] Please vote. [[12:44:06]] For 207 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party - 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 153, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense - 34, Communists - 0, Litvina Block - 20. As respectable colleagues, I asked that there be no complaints later, for there are requirements of the Rules. That's it. Please calm down. Second offer. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's pension insurance laws. [[Registration number 3521]] Please vote. [[12:45:05]] For 201 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party - 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 154, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense - 27, Communists - 0, Litvina Block - 20. The next, Your Honor, is the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft of the Act amending the Law of Ukraine "On Stately Compulsory Pension Insurance". [[on the recalculation of pensions for working retirees]] I'm betting on the vote on the inclusion of Act 4217 in the agenda. Please vote. [[12:46:02]] For 207 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, “Club of Timoshenko” – 155, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 32, Communist faction – 0, “Block of Lithuania” – 20. Please, Alexander the Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to address you from the Cabinet of Ministers. Now the three laws that you didn't include in the agenda are a strategic, important load. I am very much asking, literally, one minute of a brief comment on these laws. 4266 refers to changes to the Budget Act, which allows the balance of NAC “Naftogaz”. Moreover, there were observations concerning shares of shareholders there. We're filming these questions. That's the first one. The other one. We're also taking this off the National Bank. What's more, there's a question about the Agrarian Fund. We're ready to go to the Agrarian Fund. I'd like to go back to looking at this bill. First. The other one. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I call your attention to Law 3521. It has a strategic value for balancing the Pension Fund. Dear colleagues, I am addressing all the national MPs. I realize that the time has come to adopt not always popular but also unpopular laws. First of all, I ask you to pay attention, it's not possible, according to the Constitution, according to common sense, to justice, to the humanity of the country, to the situation where there are some types of population: doctors, teachers, miners, actually, today, the pension insurance of those who work for a simplified tax system. Only we're making a contribution to the Pension Fund, even if it's a minimum pension. Well, they can't get a pension at the expense of teachers, doctors, miners and other categories of our citizens, it's not fair, it's not right. So about 100 dollars has to be added to qualify for a minimum pension. Otherwise, there has been a fourfold increase in pensions since the simplified tax system was accepted. And we're doing it today at the expense of some citizens of other citizens. It's not right, my dear fellows. Let's put the order here, let's balance the pension fund here. So, Vladimir Mihajlovich, I ask you to go back to the agenda again, taking into account the positions expressed by the Cabinet of Ministers, and start with the budget law. I think after my comments on the deletions, there will be support from this issue. Please return to your consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u88	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in view of the fact that such a conflict has arisen, I ask that in one minute the factions please express their point of view. Adam Martinyuk, please, and then Alexander Ephraim or who you define there. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u89	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Once again, at your expense, especially at the expense of small and medium-sized businesses, they want to draw the help of the International Monetary Fund, the essence of which is very simple: Pay back the money that is owed to foreign corporations! More than that, it's not the state's fault. Of the 25 billion. - the government's debt is about half, less than half of it, half of it is private corporate business. Give me the money. We're giving you a loan to pay you back, especially with respect to 3521. It's been going on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. Now they want to put the main burden on the Pension Fund on small and medium-sized businesses, especially those working on the sole social tax. I don't think there's going to be 226 people's deputies in the session room who are ready to enter this business, which is now the only one that feeds people in crisis conditions. There's no need for backup.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u90	A party of regions, Alexander Efraemov. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u91	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Alexander Valentinović, I would like to remind you of the promises you made by going to the elections and one item in the Yushchenko programme that was here today, “10 steps I will meet people”. It literally states that the budget will increase by reducing tax pressure on businesses in Ukraine. If you're giving up this point, today you've taken a completely different view -- all the laws that are being passed, only increasing the tax pressure on people and on the business representative, then you have to delete and tell people openly that what we promised, we're doing the opposite, because the pressure that you've made today as a result of changing the tax on all business representatives is that they're stopping as big businesses, and now you're doing what we're stopping and trading in the streets because you've even made a square meter or a meter of running tray divides and bets those people who are out of work today who have to stand and bargain at the ba.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u92	The "Livina Block" faction, will anyone be speaking? You don't? Please. Who will act? Suskevich, please, microphone. And who will speak from. Please. Now.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u93	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! 3521. I would also like to say to my distinguished Communist colleagues, first of all, let's look at our entrepreneurs who are working on a fixed tax and a single tax. These people, by the way, are all left without a pension. They never make that kind of contribution to the pension fund they make, they never make a pension. And the state had to think a few years later about how to provide them with a pension. That's the first one. The other one. In any country of the world, respected colleagues, at the expense of a pensioner, a veteran, and a disabled person, do not go into business at the expense of an elderly person. Retirement benefits do not go to any country of business! There can't be such a thing! [[Applause]] How can we make business preferences at pension costs?Oh, my God! Well, I can't understand it. And the last. That's what's touching.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u94	Yes. Viachelav Kirilenko, please. Dear colleagues, don't shout! Everyone was in a minute. So can the Party of the Regions. He's going to demand it now. Come on, let's make a deal, we're working. Please, Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u95	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine! ” Ladies and gentlemen, if we make adjustments to the bill on budget changes in writing as an official bill, we will consider and perhaps support it. We can't do that right now because we're not ready to make any changes to the budget, and we're not suggesting that you all do. Second, about pensions. Well, it's a big insinuation that we're doing some business here. This is a particularly small business: people standing on markets, paying fixed taxes and the only tax that barely ends up paying taxes and part of the deductions to the Pension Fund. The government has put itself in this category and wants to make people go into the shadows at all and pay no taxes or contributions to the Pension Fund. And I'm reporting that we have a huge number of people paying various pensions. And if we do reform, it's for everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u96	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we exchanged our thoughts. Perhaps in order for us to maintain the purity of our work, due to the fact that polar positions have been set aside if you do not object, I would put to the vote in such a way as to return to the issue of inclusion in the agenda. If not, these bills will be regarded as rejected. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting: on the return to the consideration of the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009 and some other laws of Ukraine. [[on urgent measures to ensure Ukraine's energy security]] Please vote. [[12:55:27]] For 210 The decision is not taken. The factions? Please. Region Party – 0, “Club of Timoshenko” – 155, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 35, Communists – 0, “Block of Lithuania” – 20. I now put to the vote the question of the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on pension insurance]] Please vote. [[12:56:08]] For 206 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the question of the inclusion of registration number 4217 in the agenda of the daily draft law on amendments to the Ukrainian law on mandatory government pension insurance for the recalculation of pensions for working pensioners. Please vote. [[12:56:46]] For 209 The decision is not taken. Yes, Your Honor, I'd like your attention. Now we need to consider the inclusion in the agenda of the bill, registration number 4085, of amendments to the Ukrainian law on value added tax. [[on the application of special taxation rules for farmers in the implementation of their own products and the organization of rules for compensation for damage caused by natural disasters]] Registration number 4085. Please vote. [[12:57:38]] For 350. Questions are included in the agenda. Rapporteur – National Deputy of Ukraine Spak Vasil Fedorovich, co-rapporteur – head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy Sergey Anatoliyovich Teryohin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, the bill proposed, when adopted as a law, solves two problems for farmers — agricultural producers — sadly. The first problem is that agricultural products are mainly raw materials for bread, oil, sausage, fruit cans, other ready-made products for consumption. Everyone knows that raw materials and processing products are two different things in terms of their realisation and profitability. The raw materials are usually wasteful or sold with very low incomes, which cannot cover all production costs and perform them effectively. The other thing is finished after processing, it's profitable, with a certain profitability that allows for increased production. Yes, agricultural producers have become more and more aware of this and have become involved in the production of milk, meat, grain, sunflower, other processed products in the farm, which, after processing in the form of ready - for - food products, are returning to the farm for further implementation. The farm itself realizes this product, with much greater profits than the raw material. But from this point on, they have a problem: that derived from the processing of the DMV product is not counted to farmers as their own production and is eliminated from the general balance, thereby depriving them of the VAT benefit. The very obvious inequity of such an approach is why the bill proposes to introduce a clear rule on goods, services received on a reverse basis under a tax agreement. This standard is included as an addition to paragraphs 8.1.6 and 8.1.15.2. Ukraine’s “Pro.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u98	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u99	The conclusion is that it is in operation. This action will stimulate the development of livestock, weeding, and other agricultural products. The manufacturer will benefit from producing them. Therefore, I ask, fellow Members, to adopt the bill in the first reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u100	Thank you. Please, the committee. Sergey Anatolyovich Teryochin, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u101	Honorary colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council, at its meeting, reviewed the draft Act on Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax, No. 4085, replaced by 19.03.2009. The bill proposes to make such changes. Relating to the main activities of enterprises that are entitled to a specific tax regime, the supply of agricultural products, and the services produced under the tax conditions. Making changes to Article 8, paragraph 8 p.m. And the second. Complementing agricultural activities with species such as processing, processing, or preservation of plant production, changes to paragraph “a” of paragraph 8.pf 15.2 of Article 8.p. National deputies, members of the committee, support the legislative initiative proposed by the national deputies. However, there are several necessary additions that now do not allow this bill to be adopted as a whole. First of all, we don't have a definition of what processing is, what it is, what it is, what it's doing on a tax basis that's not related to external economic activity. We have the only law on dealing with donor raw materials in external economic activity. We have to write this terminology here in this law. And in the second paragraph that we've talked about today, we need to be more specific about what self-produced production is, because there might be abuse. Therefore, in general support of this proposal, the government also supports this proposal, and the committee asks for a bill as a basis. We can take a brief look at it and then take two weeks to finish it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u102	Thank you, Sergey Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, if there is a need to exchange ideas, please sign in two -- yes, two -- against. A record is being made of the performances of the National Deputies. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. National Deputy Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u103	Please pass the word to Roman Tkachu.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u104	Roman Tchac.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u105	Roman Tkac, group “For Ukraine!” Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the honourable ones! First of all, I support all that Sergey Anatolyovich Teryohin said about the donor raw material, and we need to clarify the explanation. And as to what products are considered to be self-use products. And the second. A little bit odd is the title of the bill itself, and the bill itself does not say a word about the damage caused by nature. The bill is called “Organization of rules for compensation for damage caused by natural disasters”. I think it just needs to be taken off, you can accept it on the first reading. But it has to be done very seriously because it's another threat, I don't know what the government's position here is expanding the base of those who won't pay VAT, we need to know what the magnitude of that is and what the position of the Ministry of Finance is. So the first reading can be accepted, but it can be done in a serious way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u106	Dear colleagues! The discussion is over. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The proposal is then put to the vote by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Law on Added Cost Tax, on the application of special taxation rules for farmers in the implementation of their own products and on the regulation of compensation for damage caused by natural disasters. Please vote. [[13:05:06]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party - 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 151, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" - 23, communists - 0, "Block of Lithuania" - 18. Dear colleagues! A motion for re-reading is put to the vote. Please vote. [[13:05:41]] For 215 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft Ukrainian Administrative Procedure Code is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is Justice Minister Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich. The Coroner is the first deputy head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Bodnar Olga Borisovna. Please, Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u107	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, the distinguished national MPs, the traditionally weak element of the Ukrainian legal system is the improper regulation of procedures, of any procedure. In this case, it is a matter of the Government’s proposal to adopt a code of administrative procedures that regulates a person’s relationship, whether physical or legal, or an authority or local self - government, when the latter considers the appeal or complaint of such a person. We have a sufficiently developed procedural legislation that regulates the procedures for the prosecution of decisions made by officials, in particular that has been reproduced in the Administrative and Procedural Code. But the procedures and procedures of action, conduct, civil servant, authority, local self - government, when approached by a citizen to determine the realization of his constitutional right or the right granted by law, are not in fact uniform, usually systemsless and to a large extent related to guarantees, the realization of citizens’ rights. The Code proposes, inter alia, that general rules be laid down regarding the procedure for bringing citizens and legal persons to a state institution, the consequences of making such a request, the violation of the appropriate administrative implementation in this regard, its consideration, including with the participation of citizens, the adoption of the relevant act as a result of the review, its complaint, and so forth. In other words, we fully address the general issues of a complex of procedural relations between citizens and authorities in relation to the latter’s appeal to subjects of authority. An extremely important law, supported by the Council of Europe and, by the way, takes into account experience and we are convinced that it will be a good platform for improving our legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u108	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u109	Please support this law as extremely important, which is moving our legal system forward to ensuring legal instruments and real guarantees of the realization of their constitutional rights. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u110	Thank you, Mikolo Vasilovich! Bodnar Olga Borisovna, please make a decision by the committee on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, honourable chairman, distinguished voters! It's a shame that we're looking at such an important document in a shortcut. Today, in Ukraine, most procedural elements of the relationship between the authorities and citizens are either not regulated by legislation at all, or regulated by legal regulations. Ukraine’s administrative legislation needs radical renewal. Therefore, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports the Government's initiative to regulate the Administrative Code of the General Administrative Procedure, whose principles and rules will determine the relationship between public authorities, local self-government authorities, their officials, on the one hand, and natural and legal persons, on the other. At its meeting, the committee unanimously supported the decision to adopt the draft codex in the first reading. If it is accepted, taking into account its importance and complexity, we are prepared to form a working group on the basis of a profile committee and to involve all interested people from the national MPs, from the public representatives, from the President's Secretariat, from the Cabinet of Ministers, in order for a really perfect bill to be in Ukraine. At this point, the question is whether we leave the predominant ideology of the rule of state over man in the past, or whether we will make it possible to change the opposite ideology of administrative law in the service of the State and the interests of man. Please support the committee's proposal and support this document in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u112	Thank you. Yes, Your Honor, I ask you to sign up for this bill. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. National Deputy Pisarenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Indeed, today may be the time for substantive reform in the middle of administrative relations, but does this bill solve all the problems that exist today? In my opinion, this bill does not solve the systematization or unification of today's norms that regulate this area, including because it does not solve all problems and does not cover the entire circle of issues of these relations. That's the first one. The other one. This bill, in my opinion, in the event of its underdevelopment, which is being developed in the Cabinet of Ministers, taking into account the proposals made by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, may even be a source of sadness for the future activities of the administrative bodies. You know that the system itself that is being introduced is not clear whether it is going to be an alternative or the only substitute, because it's actually going to be intertwined with a lot of other legislation that regulates such administrative procedures today. I would suggest that the Ministry of Justice and the Cabinet of Ministers work on this bill. In the event that the Supreme Council decides to approve it today in the first reading, I think the 14 days that we have to work on his second reading should actually go around the clock to improve it. Because we can both improve the administrative relationship procedure, so in fact we can lose all the administrative relations that will be governed by this code. So I do propose to support the idea of scientific expertise and return to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u114	National Deputy Carmazin, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u115	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens! When I studied this document, I struggled with two people, one supporting the document, the other shouting out: “Where is separation from other similar bills, from other laws? Where's the line? How do I know? Do people get confused?” I will certainly say that they are confused because this codex reminds me very much of the Polish Code of Administrative Conduct. I'd say more than that, I feel like half the articles are just rewritten. It's very good that we use, study both Polish and Austrian law on administrative procedure or the law on administrative procedure of the Federal Republic of Germany, which is also the norm here. And I'm convinced that if we don't go now, on some route, it's better to adopt this code in the first reading, to create a group here already, to take and plan, to separate, to distinguish people today from being protected, so that there's not such a thing as the Kharkov Court of Appeal, where corruption can't even be criticized, because right now you're going to get sued, there's such a Mr. Borodin and so on. I mean, I'm for the codex to be adopted. But it's very serious to create a working group, with two of the three committees not even from one committee. So, Vladimir Mikhailovich, obviously you need to lead this process, because it's a very serious thing, but it's a civilizational thing, so it's going to apply, because it's also the Council of Europe Resolution, which obliges us to protect the right of a person to act as an administrative body. But to travel all together in the same codex, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u116	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. What? Please, Bodnar microphone. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u117	Thank you. Since we are currently dealing with a minor breach, there is a partial violation of the Code, which cannot be considered in a reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u118	I want to tell you, one minute, there's no violation. And please calm down. There was a violation of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u119	Vladimir Mikhailovich, that's not what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u120	I want to say again when I voted twice on the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u121	Volodymyr Mihajlovich, let me tell everyone that the committee -- I said that -- we're ready to create a working group involving all the professionals in this room, in the President's Secretariat, in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, in the legal institutions. Please, let's join in, but this is a question that we're currently discussing in a very short way, we haven't really existed today. But it needs a solution today. We don't have a solution to the procedure. We will continue to live by corrupt schemes because a citizen who applies to local governments or other administrative bodies that can help him faces a wall of misunderstandings and delaying solutions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, a proposal is put to the vote by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Ukrainian Code of Administrative Procedure. [[Registration number 2789]] Please vote. [[13:17:21]] For 219 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a motion to re-read the draft law. [[Registration number 2789]] Please vote. [[13:17:48]] For 226 Decision taken. I beg of you, Your Honor, let's focus and work. If anyone wants another election for the term, I mean, they won't. A draft Ukrainian Air Code is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 2373]] At the same time, honourable colleagues, the drafter of the bill made a proposal, with a request, with a written request setting out the nature of the problem. [[We can't speak, or we'll discuss it, or we won't.]] It is based on the need to postpone consideration in order to further develop it. Please, the author of the draft law. Boris Anatolyevich, please, your motivation. Then we'll vote if there's any insistence.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u123	My motivation is that the Air Code is not a political law, it's a national law that regulates very serious concepts, such as traffic safety. So if we don't vote on this code in a political way right now, it will be passed on to September of the month. This has to do with the life of the pilots. That's why I, in principle, made such a decision that we're going to hold even more consultations with the factions' heads, and then we're going to put this code in the next plenary session. Thank you for your attention. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'd like to suggest you take it off today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u124	The point is, I proposed, and now they insist that we put the vote to the vote. Dear colleagues, one minute, or are we going to support this proposal by voting to postpone it so as not to burn? I'll put it to a vote, if the Supreme Council doesn't support it, we'll consider it. Am I saying it right? The author suggests putting off. I'll put it to a vote, the Supreme Council won't support it -- let's look at it; it will support -- so let's move it. There's no warning, right? That's why I'm putting to the vote a motion to move the draft law, registration number 2373 to the next plenary week is a draft Ukrainian Air Code. Please vote. [[13:20:48]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. Here we go to the draft Ukrainian Air Code. [[Registration number 2373]] Rapporteur, Ukrainian National Deputy, Shiyanov Boris Anatoliyovich, co-rapporteur, Vice-President of the Transport and Liaison Committee, Kruk Yuri Borisovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u125	Honourable Volodymira Mihajlovich, honourable fellow MPs, the draft of the Ukrainian Air Code, which is being submitted today for consideration by the Supreme Council, is called upon to implement the main objective of adapting Ukraine's legislation in the field of civil aviation to European standards, thereby eliminating the disadvantage of the current Air Code, which was adopted by the Supreme Council in 1993. Ukraine is now a member of the European Civil Aviation Conference and the European Aeronautics Security Organization. The regulatory activities of civil aviation to date require the legislative strengthening of relevant standards, including adaptation to international air law, taking into account the requirements of the International Civil Aviation Organization, the European Union, the European Civil Aviation Conference, the European Eurocontrol Aviation Safety Organisation, as well as changes to national legislation. [[ICAO]] With the aim of harmonising the Ukrainian legislative field with the standards of DJA and other European law governing civil aviation, the National Deputies have submitted to the Supreme Council a draft of the new Ukrainian Air Code, registration number 2373. Taking into account the requirements of the EU and international standards as a result of the inspections carried out by ICAO commissions and the comments made at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on transport and communications issues since 13.12.2008, the project addressed the following questions: the basic terms and definitions, the mechanism for national aviation regulation and the use of air space in Ukraine, the legal basis for civil aviation in Ukraine, the use of air space in Ukraine, aircraft, aircraft, aircraft, aircraft, aircraft, aircraft, airports, airports, environmental protection, aviation, aviation, and civil aviation protection against illegal interference in its activities, search and rescue activities, and the investigation of aviation events.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u126	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u127	Taking into account the lack of protection of civil aviation personnel from the negative effects of their activities, the bill is supplemented by an additional section entitled “Social security for aviation personnel”. Thus, the draft Air Code meets both national and international law. National deputies of Ukraine were involved in the drafting of the Code, which are representatives of all factions of Parliament: BUT, Party of Regions, NU-NS, “Block of Lithuania” and KPU. Since there is no direct policy here, I would like to emphasize and emphasize that the Air Code bill is adopted in the national interest. Dear colleagues! Please support the bill of the Ukrainian Air Code as a whole, adopted as a basis in the first reading. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u128	Thank you. Yuri Borisovich Kruk, deputy head of the Committee on Transport and Communications Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u129	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Transport and Communications last September reviewed the Ukrainian Air Code and decided to adopt it as a basis for first reading. There have been many judgments on this matter. The Ukrainian Air Code, as well as the Code of Merchandise, was adopted more than 15 years ago and certainly in the areas of air and sea safety, is moving forward, so the rapporteur said it was essentially the law that regulates the activities of the Civil Aviation for Aviation Safety. The Committee therefore held a long discussion on this issue. Although the Scientific and Expert Division had proposed that the draft bill should be finalized, the Committee had decided to invite the Supreme Council to take the floor. Please support the Committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u130	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the exchange of information on the bill. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u131	Dear National Deputies! Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. I understand that today's consideration of the issue after a reduced procedure, the more serious the question, the more it will be, the more it will be politicized. And I just want to say about professional moments. What needs to be done is to accept the code or not accept it. We adopted the previous codex back in 1993. It's an active code. There were two ways to go: either to work on it, or to adopt the codex as proposed. I'd like the authors, and when they report here from the committee, they say clearly and frankly: and what are the underwater stones here? In my opinion, the stones are here. And these stones, some of them are in the conclusion of the draft Air Code, which gave the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which recommended a return to work and made recommendations on 16 pages. It seems to me that in the Final Positions where there are things: “Ensure, in accordance with the legislation, the return to the State ownership of airports: ‘Donetsk’, ‘Kyiv’, ‘Kyiv’, ‘Kyovograd’, ‘Odessa’, ‘Symferopol’, ‘Kharkov’, ‘Vinnica’, ‘Gavirsovka’, ‘Gavrishovka’, ‘Yirovograd’, ‘Kjernograd’, ‘Cherniv’, ‘Cherniv’, ‘Czerniv’, ‘Czerkasi’, ‘Ismael’, ‘Ismael’, ‘Kerch’, ‘Krivý Rig’, ‘Krnopel’ and ‘Sierrodonetzke’ – this is where the basic thing lies. Yes, yes, Yuri Borisovich? So I'd like us to express ourselves and say whether there's a violation or not. If you don't have this one, because if you go back, you have to make a decision on the basis of the Constitution, I'm in. Let's take it from the first reading, work it out. But there must be a lot of conflict, a lot of conflict.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u132	Give me a chance. Yeah, it's all you, isn't it? Yes, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u133	And at the same time, we have to move forward. We don't live in 93 anymore. I mean, we have to accept it, but let's be clear about what we call our names, without these moments where there's such a crazy redistribution of ownership and influence, and everything else. We need to be briefed by the Minister of Transport here first. Who are the airports under? How do they work? Who are they working for? And where are those uncles who control our aviation space today? That's what it takes to be reported first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u134	Thank you. As for honorary colleagues, the offer of Yuri Anatoliovich. In order for the Minister to speak, please draft a ruling. We'll look at it, we'll take it, the minister speaks. In one minute, please, Bondar Alexander, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko, no, our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u135	[[Nothing, I'm sitting right next to them.]] Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I just want to say that if in the final positions there is no rule on the return of airports from public utility, which is contrary to all applicable standards not only to the Constitution, to the laws of Ukraine, but to international standards. We are told that the air code should be used by international organizations. As soon as they read this rule, our country will be wiped out of civilized, democratic countries. This is by no means acceptable. If we're given a hundred percent guarantee that this rule from the final regulations on the return to state property will be removed, we'll vote. It is not possible to vote on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u136	Thank you. Yeah, no one insists on acting out of factions? No, it's not. Then, dear colleagues, I will put to the vote the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of draft law, registration number 2373, draft Ukrainian Air Code. Please vote. Based on the base. [[13:31:01]] For 209 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on the proposal. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I'm putting to the vote a proposal that is essentially set out in the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority and is intended to return to the re-reading of the draft Law registration number 2373. Here's to the vote, one more time. [[13:31:38]] For 217 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 2632, is being announced for consideration. [[on Irrigated Agriculture]] Reporter – Minister of Agriculture Policy Melnik Yuri Fedorovich, co-rapporteur – Deputy Head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations Sergey Mikolayovich Giga. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u137	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill provides for changes to Ukraine's Act on Concessions in the inclusion of meliority systems in the list of objects that may be awarded in the concession, to Ukraine's Act on Land Melioration on the identification of sources of financing for construction, reconstruction and exploitation of meliority systems provided in the concession, and to Ukraine's Act on Promoting the Development of Domestic Construction Machines for the Agricultural Complex (for budgetary compensation to agricultural producers for the cost of irrigation and water technology). The main objective of the adoption of the law is, first, to create a more favourable environment for irrigation farming, to gradually restore the full operation of the entire melioritative complex without further State funding, to improve the environmental condition of agricultural conditions and to create environmentally sound conditions for the operation of meliorate systems, to include irrigation and water technology in the list of techniques and equipment for the agro-industry complex will create a level playing field for the state support of agricultural products in part of the budgetary compensation for the cost of this group of techniques, and to involve additional sources of financing for the construction, reconstruction and operation of irrigation systems. The implementation of the bill will contribute to a more efficient use of financial resources for the reconstruction, construction, exploitation of meliority systems and renovation of the meliority technology park. Please support the draft law as proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u138	Thank you, you. Sergey Mikolaiovich Ribuk, please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u139	Dear National Deputies! The area of irrigation lands in our country is 2 million 200,000 hectares, which is 6.5 percent of the total. Until recently, however, these 6.6 percent of the land’s gross crop production in our country had contributed 25 percent. And that's especially in areas where we're risking farming in the dry south, the steppe, and so on. Today, according to the meliorate system inventory, there are only 943,000 in sufficient technical condition. And almost one and a half million hectares are not used at all. Of course, among these problems is the unsatisfying technical state of domestic melioritative systems, more than 90 percent of which are in municipal property. To correct this situation, as the Ministry of Agrarian Politics and the Committee of Agricultural Policy, land relations, perhaps by investing in the transfer of intra-economic melioritative systems to concessional conditions. This, in our view, and in the conclusion of the agrarian committee, will guide, improve financial security for the construction, reconstruction, and operation of meliority systems. At least it will stop the destruction of such expensive melioritative systems. So the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of draft Law 2632 as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u140	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, please sign up for your position on the bill if necessary. A recording of the performance is being made. Please put the names of the national deputies on the board. Vladimir Yavorovsky faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u141	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Not far away from the time that principle was in force, God says that when he takes away his mind, he gives three times more power or four times more. We still have in our minds, when, let's say, in large numbers, we had land-drying in whole regions, we had huge millions of dollars in droughts, and then five or six years later, we started to do irrigation on the same land. Because of this, it is common throughout the country that these abandoned permissive watersheds, floodwaters, and so forth seem sad. And it seems to me that with a great deal of delay, but the fact that we've returned to this problem, to save what's left of it today, somehow inhale into it, not by investing in budget funds, but by involving investors, and therefore these three laws that we're adding to today will really give a little bit of life to the stake, first of all, to preserve what's left. And of course, we put investors' money there, because we don't need it, especially in our southern areas, but not just in the southern areas, but in the central and western areas today without irrigation. It's a colossal aid to the agrarian power that Ukraine has. Because of that Yulia Timoshenko block, he's going to give all his votes for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u142	National Deputy Alexander Mikolaiovich Tkachenko, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u143	Dear colleagues! Of course, this amendment bill has three laws. The Act on Concessions and I think most people in this room know what concessions are. It's not a lease, it's a transfer forever. And the second law on land melioration, and the third law on agriculture, it certainly doesn't come together. If we talk about water and land concessions, there are contradictions. The point is that the earth today is largely privately owned. Who will pass the land into concession? Who will pass the canals to the Donetsk, Crimean channels in whose concession? Is it stately or not stately to pass water into someone else's hands? I think it's an anti-State law, it's an anti-State amendment, we can't let someone manage the resources today. Today we're running energy, today we've leased a lot of industrial enterprises, where this industry, why it's not filling the budget, and at the expense of citizens, we're filling the budget. So I think that of these three laws only deserve one bill that forms part of this trinity, this is the law on, the amendment to the law on agriculture. You, dear fellows, understand that 2 million 600,000 farmed lands and a material and technical base of 30 billion carbs, this is equivalent to 50 billion dollars in concession, in whose hands. I don't think we have the right to cover two anti-State laws with one law on construction. If we do it, we can vote for this law, well, the concession law and land melioration.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u144	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u145	I would ask you not to support it, it's an anti-State law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u146	Mikola Haritonovich Shershun, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u147	Mikola Shershun, “Block Lithuania”. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, a respected colleague, was always famous for her agricultural production. By making a wager for agricultural development, we will never lose but only win. But the situation that has taken place today requires our efforts and our assistance in supporting farmers. In particular, it is extremely important to restore the role of meliority systems and to improve the efficiency of land use. In my opinion, the bill, which has now been tabled for consideration, is intended to help our agrarians. The implementation of the law will contribute to the development of irrigation agriculture, as well as the gradual restoration of the full functioning of the meliocomplex as a whole, including the creation of additional jobs, and the improvement of environmental conditions. And one more thing. If the entire infrastructure works well, we can talk about the guaranteed increase in agricultural production and the improvement in the economic and financial situation of Ukrainian farmers. The Lithuanian Bloc has always advocated bills aimed at agricultural development and increasing the productivity of farmers. That is why we now consider it appropriate to adopt the bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u148	Dear colleagues! Discussion of the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Irrigated Agriculture has been completed. The committee proposes to accept it as a basis. The proposal for a committee to adopt is based on the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on irrigation. Registration number 2632. Please vote. [[13:42:36]] For 340. Decision taken. Continue work for 15 minutes to 14 hours 15 minutes, The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Housing Fund Social Assignment Act is now under review. Registration number 3480. The rapporteur is the first deputy minister from the residential-communal farm Lototic Oreste Bogdanovich. Correspondent is the Deputy Head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy Popov Alexander Pavlovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u149	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Your point is to propose a draft Act amending the Social Purpose Housing Fund Act. The need for such changes is due to some ambiguities in the interpretation of certain standards and the need to clarify certain procedural points. In particular, it is suggested that changes be made to the content that the right to take up housing will be used by citizens for whom such housing will be used, and in the present law the rule is the only place of residence. The law proposes to remove the rules on grounds for removing a citizen from social housing when he receives loans for construction or housing because it takes some time to go through the period of obtaining loans and then to build or obtain such housing. So this rule is also proposed to be removed. It is also envisaged that in order to confirm the right to social housing, a citizen should provide information on property in the last five years in order to prevent deliberate deterioration or abuse of such housing. In the event of an artificial deterioration in living conditions, local governments have the right to refuse a citizen to socialize for five years. This standard is now provided for in the current Housing Code in article 35. Citizens who have lost their right to social housing by consent may be included in lists of citizens who have the right to build and acquire affordable housing according to legislation. Since the maintenance of the housing fund will be carried out at the expense of house and building maintenance services and in residential areas, it is proposed that the cost of renting housing be directed towards the formation and maintenance of the housing fund. The bill is also proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u150	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u151	Social housing, state aid to pay in the form of a subsidy. And some other clarifying standards. The bill is supported by a professional committee of the Supreme Council. The government also asks for his support in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u152	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Popov Alexander Pavlovich, deputy chairman of the committee. Please, the Committee's conclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u153	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! On February 4th of this year, our profile committee reviewed the draft of this law and examined the conclusions given by the ministries, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and the Committee of the Supreme Council of Social Policy and Work. In general, this bill was supported by our colleagues. There are serious remarks, well noted, in principle, by the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, which proposes, as a result of the first reading, to send a draft draft for further work, but we have considered all “pro” and “against” and, understanding that the changes and additions proposed by this bill are now, in principle, not changing the policy that is approved by the previous law and in force today. And so our committee considers it appropriate to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of this bill in the first reading and the comments that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority may have been developed and taken into account in preparing for the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u154	Thank you, too. Please sit, Alexander Pavlovich. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the exchange of information on this bill. All right, we're doing a recording. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. Adam Martinyuk, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u155	Honorable colleagues, especially fellow citizens, who look forward to receiving social housing! I think we did the right thing when we accepted the same thing, but let's take a look at what the department of profile is proposing, what are the fundamental changes to this law. If we vote with you on these changes, never will anyone who has the right to receive social housing receive it. Please, a change that relates to the tenth article, which tells us that now the person who has the right to social housing is submitting the necessary documents and becoming one. He's got the criteria: the last five years, what you've been earning and what you've had. Why not ten? Why Five? Because in five years, something happened to a person, which means that it's a direct reason not to put him in line for social housing. Moreover, read the changes to article 29 of the Law. If the current housing financing law is currently being implemented at the expense of the State Budget, article 29 is now proposing to withdraw the State Budget and to translate the financing of social housing and maintenance into local budgets. Is that real? It's not real. And I think those who reported from the profile committee should have thought about where the local budgets would be for social housing, for social housing. And most of all. Most importantly, it's hidden behind a rather beautiful correction. Where the list of social housing is listed, two words “for temporary residence” were added in the definition of terms today. So you're not going to have a place to live, you're going to have a place to stay, a dormitory. It's a draconian law, and I don't know how the ministry can vote for it, and we can vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u156	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk gave some analysis of the articles of this bill, changes that are being made. But I want to talk about something else. We all went here this afternoon to the session room, hoping to hear this every year a package of anti-crisis bills that would be able to emerge painlessly from the economic crisis. So, by the way, one of the active resources around the world is the expansion of housing for people, because it's an opportunity to raise and give, take and work, it's an opportunity to engage its metallurgical enterprises, its construction industries and so on. What does this bill give us? He's not giving anything. And from the feeling that now dominates society, the sense of "successlessness" this bill will only increase the sense of psychological discomfort. Why? But because there is no answer to the main question, “Who, at what cost, is to finance the construction of this social housing? ” I'm addressing Ukrainian national MPs from industrial regions, from other territories. Where is this social housing being built in your city when it was last surrendered, how many people were given an apartment? Zero, because the budget is zero and the housing is zero. And these labor groups, which were once viewed as young people, where life was being ruined, today are turning into a common crow of freedom, because life is not dying there, life is dying there. The thing is, there is no social housing in Ukraine. I've only told you one number, I've already told you about it from the rostrum. We're twice in a row, our committee has asked 69 million dollars in total or to complete the construction of so-called homeless and homeless citizens' houses. We got zero for this year. Thus, such laws should be viewed under beautiful signs as mere wickedness. No social housing.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed, registration number 3480. No one insists on the factions that did not take advantage of the right to speak? Before the vote, National Deputy Alexander Popov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, I just wanted to see Adam Ivanovich. Adam Ivanovich, if possible, please listen. You've just thrown a stone into the garden of our profile committee, and I want to say that the amendments that we're talking about here say that the funds are being disbursed from the state budget, but as subsidies to local budgets. It's better than being centralized through some department. So don't say that we agreed that the State budget would not finance this program, it's just not right.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u160	Please, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u161	Please open page seven, page eight of the bill. The left side, the seventeenth edition, article 29: “The formation of a social housing fund is carried out at the expense of government and local budgets, as well as of private legal and natural persons. Right-hand editing: The formation of a social housing fund is done at the expense of local budgets of legal and natural persons. Where's the state budget? Please read.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u162	Yes, Your Honor, the committee is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis. It is up to the committee to vote, please vote, prepare to vote on the adoption as a basis of the draft Act amending the Law on Housing and Social Assignment. [[Registration number 3480]] Please vote. [[13:54:07]] For 186 The decision is not taken. The second proposal is to re-read the draft Act amending the Law on Housing and Social Assignment. [[Registration number 3480]] Please vote. [[13:54:38]] For 204 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. Dear colleagues, we now have to consider three bills concerning the service of local self-government. For 15 minutes we continued our work. Therefore, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government is announced for consideration. [[Registration number 3080]] And I'd like us to take a quick look at the next two bills. Reporter - Head of State Service Directorate Motrenko Timothy Valentinovich, co-rapporteur - head of Traidko Mikola Fedorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u163	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, the Cabinet of Ministers, as a consistent step towards fighting corruption, presents the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government. Objective: First, to increase the responsibility of officials of local self-government for violating anti-corruption legislation. Secondly, the conversion of an official's oath of local self-government from a mere formality to the legal obligation of this official to meet the obligations of unrelenting compliance. Thirdly, it is necessary to bring the Service Act to the local self-government authorities in the State Service Act, since officials of the local self-government freely move to the public service, keeping ranks and categories, and these standards are not in the Local Self-Government Act, but are in the State Service Act. This will allow two additional reasons for quitting the field ministry. First of all, bringing an official of local self-government to the administration of responsibility for actions provided for in articles 1.5 of the Law on Combating, Corruption, secondly, for violating an oath by an official of local self-government. There are arguments that this duplicates the anti - corruption law. However, in the Law on State Service it is present and, in our view, there is no duplication in such a matter as fighting corruption will not do any harm, and it will provide additional grounds. There's an argument that the oath will be treated extremely arbitrarily. No, my fellow Members, the experience of using this rule in the Public Service Act says that breaking an oath is extremely difficult and is rarely applied only if we want to avoid giving any further.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u164	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u165	work in these organs. According to the Cabinet of Ministers, this law will increase the responsibility of officials of local self - government. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u166	Thank you. Please take the seat of the committee. Mikola Fedorovich Trajduk, head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u167	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Excuse me. At its meeting, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government considered a draft of the Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government Authorities, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers to increase the level of responsibility of officials of local self-government for violating the oath of an official of local self-government and the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on Combating Corruption, as well as in the event of refusal to take an oath. As a result of this discussion, the committee, having its observations but supporting the Government's initiative to improve legislation in part of strengthening the responsibility of officials of local self-government for violating anti-corruption and enforcement discipline requirements, concluded: recommending to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government Authorities, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, on the basis of the first reading, by entrusting the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government to work on it, taking into account the comments of the subjects of the law of the legislative initiative and to contribute to the consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its second reading. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption find it appropriate to review the bill in the first reading to return its subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development. At the same time, the Committee on Legal Policy believes that the bill resulting from its consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its first reading can be accepted as a basis. The comments of the administrations and committees can be taken into account when preparing the bill for second reading. So please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u168	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if there is a need to discuss, please sign up. It's a recording. Please put the names of the national MPs on the board that have been signed up for the performance. Adam Martinyuk, Communist faction, please. Then Oleg Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, the reporter and co-reporter, especially the co-reporter, have introduced you to the arguments that the Scientific and Experimental Chief Administration has given the committees the appropriate identity, the essence of which is that without such a law you can live, i.e. there is really duplication. But perhaps it is not a big deal if we adopt another law if it asks the administration to want another law. Although it is regulated in other laws, we will not spoil the porridge with a spoon. So you can vote. While, in preparation for the second reading, we need to see that there is no duplication, for, for example, there is ambiguity in the oath of a civil servant. Since the civil servant takes the oath once. That is not to say that at the time of each office, we make a bill in accordance with this ambiguity so that it does not take a new oath every time. That is to say, on the second reading, that a civil servant, as in the basic law, takes the oath of a civil servant once. So we're not going to spoil the legislative field with this bill, so I suggest we support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u170	Please, Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u171	Oleg Zarubinski. ‘Block of Lithuania’. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, dear colleagues, you know. Without prejudice to the criticism that has been echoed and contained in the conclusions of the scientific and expert management, in our view, in the view of the faction of the “Block of Lithuania”, the idea is absolutely right. According to many positions, employees, or people working in local governments, are likened to civil servants in many positions. And as for certain people, how you can say the benefits right now, and as far as employment is concerned, and so on. I wouldn't want to light up this whole spectrum right now. If that is the case, there must be a comparison not only of the rights but also of the responsibilities. If a government official falls under several dispositions, duties in the context of failing to engage in corruption may also have to be transferred to local self - government officials. If this can't be done automatically, then obviously the question should be in such a way that we have to regulate it by law. But here I would like to address Timothy Valentine's Day, Timothy Valentine's Day, to you. [[Then, Volodymyr Mikhailovich]] And I wanted to talk about one norm, obviously, which you have to initiate to be somehow normalized or somehow regulated in preparing for second reading as the authors of the legislative initiative. This is about quitting the service of local self - government authorities as a result of a breach of an oath. This is a flaw where there are no criteria, which is considered to be a breach of an oath – a mechanism that determines after a breach of an oath the removal of a person is not listed here or even in the Act on State Service. And that's probably why, and so rarely so, because of the breach of an oath, the civil servant ceases to be. When there is no mechanism, it is difficult to implement even the right standard of law. And that's why I'm proposing.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u172	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u173	That's exactly what you have to figure out, and you have the right to make an amendment to the second reading. Everything else seems perfectly logical and correct to me. We'll vote on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u174	Instead of Yeresko, Pisarenko, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u175	Dear colleagues! It's really the case, as Adam Ivanovich just said, that it's a case where the law actually doesn't create anything new, but you know, if we support such bills in general, we're just increasing the work of the Supreme Council. Do we not have more important bills to consider today? You know, this is a very important bill, maybe it's for a while, some kind of non-critical, non-crisis, it could be the subject of the Supreme Council's consideration. But what does this bill give us? He's giving us what we rule in another law that officials shouldn't do corruption? Well, they shouldn't, of course. Why would we do that? Let's write in every law that we don't have to do corruption. Let's give the second rule they write that an official can be released if he doesn't make an oath. Thus, he will not become an official unless he makes an oath. If we make a standard for not being a civil servant after he breaks an oath, yes, of course, let's be very balanced about that. We all remember how the President on the right and left frees both the judges of the Constitutional Court and anyone else for breaking his oath. What, though, is a breach of an oath? We all took an oath with you, and we know that finding out what a violation of an oath is, is a huge problem. If anyone wants to get fired for this, let's define the criteria and how to get there. But in this law we won't do it, I say it right away. And even in the second reading, we won't do it. Hence, this law brings nothing, no novelties today on the right plane. And if the Supreme Council is going to follow the principle that let's approve anything to just work, then we won't get popular respect. So I think we need to cut off these bills at all on the issue of a consensus council. This bill can be considered when there is no world crisis in the country. I understand that the government also has the right to make such bills. But I would like such bills to be available to us until everything is calm in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u176	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, one minute, please. The "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u177	Thank you. I would like to point out that the Law on Service in Local Self - Government Authorities is one of the few statutory laws that should fully regulate the issue of the conduct of service in local self - government. In this sense, I'd rather say that the Anti-Corruption Act in a purely legal sense is somewhat out of the general legal field, because it defines sanctions for corruption, which should be in the Criminal Code and in the Code on Administrative Offences, not in a separate law. That's how the doctrine of law works. So it seems to me that the non-admission of this bill, which is currently under discussion, is not in favour of the normal development and the establishment of appropriate restrictions on service in local self-government. I very much ask my fellow national MPs to listen to the position of the committee and to support the bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-31-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. I therefore propose to the adoption committee the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government, registration number 3080. Please vote. Based on the base. Please vote. [[14:08:05]] For 325 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break until 4:00. After the break, we will continue our consideration of the bills set for Tuesday, March 31.
