ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u1	Invite the national deputies to the session room. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:01:26]] The 401 National MP registered in the session hall, and the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine declared open. Dear National Deputies! Let me inform you that, during the Conciliation Council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a decision was taken by the Conciliation Council in view of the fact that the committees considered the comments of the President of Ukraine on the laws of Ukraine amending the Law on Electricity and the Act on Amendments to certain laws of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the specificities of the conduct of constitutional appeals and the non-abuse of the right to constitutional submission, that the Supreme Council of Ukraine will consider the proposals of the President of Ukraine and the decisions on this matter of the committee, the relevant committees of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! I have this proposal, and we should be looking at these bills that were represented by the President. I've asked the Secretariat accordingly, and I'm going to ask the secretariat once again to ask them to be representatives of the President, to be a permanent representative of the President, so that we can consider these bills. If there's no objection, let's postpone the consideration of these bills for half an hour, yes. I'm asking you, let's do it this way, dear fellows! Just a minute. So the proposal, let's now consider bill 2740 and then we'll go back to the debate. Is there no objection? What? I can't hear you. The point is that they are included in the agenda, there is no need to include them, we need to consider them. So I suggest we now consider bill 2740 and then go back to implementing the decisions of the Ukrainian Conciliation Council. Since all the factions have spoken, they must be considered, that is all. Now, honourable colleagues, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the provision of disabled persons by cars is being reviewed. Registration number 2740. The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Rosenko Pavel Valeriyovich. Valeriy Suškevitch will be the narrator. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u2	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill, which is being considered today by the government, has been drawn up in response to numerous appeals, including by Ukrainian national deputies, which are prompted by citizens’ requests for the possibility of leaving the families of the dead with disabilities of the cars they used and were provided with for life. To some extent, this problem has already been taken into account by making appropriate changes to government regulations, but this issue needs to be addressed at the legislative level. Another factor is that the work of labour and social protection agencies to recover cars after the death of persons with disabilities, the organization and the payment of their technical supervision, storage and transportation, requires significant financial costs from the State budget, costs for which no provision is made. At the same time, the vast majority of cars that have been provided with returnable disabilities are virtually unfit for further exploitation. In a small number of cars, the proper technical condition was maintained, since there were not one major repairs at the expense of the disabled and their families. In view of this situation, the project gives the government the right to determine the order and conditions for the transfer of a car issued by labour authorities and social protection of the population to the property of the family of the disabled person who has died. The bill regulates the right to alienate a member of a family of a deceased invalid with a humanitarian vehicle that he has used for less than 10 years. Provided that the members of his family are paid taxes and congregations if the relevant decision is taken by the Commission for Humanitarian Assistance at the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u3	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u4	I would like to point out that the project specifically proposes a standard that, when dealing with issues, it is very important to transfer to the property of a humanitarian car, that the individual pays taxes and the congregations provided for in the legislation on the day of the customs procedure of a humanitarian car, which we believe will eliminate the possibility of abuse on the subject. The adoption of this law is surely awaited by all our disabled persons, who, according to the law in force, are in charge of car insurance. The implementation of the law will not require additional funding, the adoption of the bill will remove some social tension among the population and avoid additional financial costs. Please support the bill and accept it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u5	Valerius Suškević, please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u6	Dear colleagues! There are two cases of humanitarian cases. With cars issued by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for the use of persons with disabilities. The first case of a State issuing either a tax payment or free of charge for the use of a disability. In such a case, it is clear that this car, after the disabled had died after its exploitation, today, the distinguished first deputy minister of labour and social policy said that it would be necessary to use the good money to take it away or dispose of it, or to think about how and what to do with it further and so on. The point is to leave the car that the state has issued to the disabled. This is the first case. The second case is the bill that the government is proposing in case a disabled person gets a humanitarian car. And it also comes through the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, because a humanitarian car can only get a disabled person who is in line with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy as a person who is not provided by the car under the legislation. In this case, there is also a situation where this car, a humanitarian car, was in use, used by a disabled person, spent some money on repairs, equipment, and maintenance, and when a disabled person dies, it is necessary to retake the car and manage it in a manner appropriate to the State. The legislator proposes, more faithfully, that this bill would also offer that the car could be left with the family, but by paying for the corresponding mandatory congregations and payments. I want to say that the people's deputies who just approached me on this bill said that it's not possible to do that on humanitarian cars. There are no questions for public cars. I think it's clear to everyone here.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u7	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u8	According to humanitarian cars, you know, the person who was holding this car along with the disabled, serving, spending money, is the depreciation period, and then on the day that this car was turned into a customs car, that's years ago, you have to pay these costs. Accordingly, you realize that there is no disabled person or family. That's why the Science-Expert Authority also pointed out that this position is, in terms of social protection and disability support, inappropriate. I have an offer for you, dear colleagues. Today any problem with the disabled, she's not waiting. I ask that this bill be adopted as a basis and as a whole, but take into account the proposal of the Scientific and Experimental Authority to remove these payments that should be paid by the family of a dead invalid and then adopt this law as a whole. Because it's not human to take away the deceased's family after a few years of use, and we'll take into account the observations of the Scientific and Experimental Authority on this subject and vote on this law. Please support and support the disabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u9	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Is there a need to discuss these laws? Please sign in. A recording of the performance is being made. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u10	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinsky's Block of Lithuania. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Despite the fact that there's actually a remark here, I don't think they're that substantial, but rather technical in nature on the part of our Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. But it seems to me that the basic dispositions offered to the authors of the legislative initiative are simply out of their minds. Because according to large numbers, and it was said that when a disabled person has a long term, or not even a long term, let's be honest that those cars that are given to the disabled are not, let's say, so extra class and not very modern. When he uses them, he and the family of the deceased invests so much in him both in petrol and in capital repairs, and in maintenance, and so forth, that if you look at the residual cost of this car, if you remove it from the family of a dead disabled person and what the family has put in it, it is either inconsistencies or those that emphasize that the family has spent much more. I think there's a simple and moral aspect to this problem, but there's also a purely pragmatic aspect of basic common sense. I propose that we vote precisely on the basis, but if we want a committee representative to vote on this bill as a whole, it should make it more clear what rules should be changed, which are corrected. Only then will it be possible to vote in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u11	National Deputy Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u12	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense", MP group "For Ukraine!" This law, of course, must be supported. Yet, practice shows that there are enormous problems in the provision of disabled cars. And these changes to the law simply regulate some of the aspects, perhaps not even the most painful ones in this important matter. Along with the adoption of the law in general, in addition to the fact that they have already said that even a car that comes in as a humanitarian aid needs to be left in the family with a disabled person, because it is extremely painful problems for those who do so, because it is already after the death of a person to take this car away, and when it comes to taking away what is proposed in the draft law, only when family members pay customs and other congregations for the day of the customs procedure, I pay attention. Because it takes some time, and the car that is worn out no longer has that value and does not determine those customs payments, so it should, of course, be completely excluded or adjusted in some way. At the same time, I really support the fair denial by the Scientific and Experimental Authority that it is not possible to amend the Law on Persons with Disabilities and guarantee their social protection, in particular article 13, paragraph 22, on the replacement of fuel compensation for petrol. Because the first term includes compensation for diesel fuel, gas, and so on. So this notion is extremely narrowing down those guarantees of social protection that are given to people with disabilities and those who participate in the war. So if we're going to accept it in general, we have to consider this position of Science and Technology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u13	Valentin Grigorovitch Matthews, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u14	Please pass the word to Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u15	Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u16	Dear colleagues, I ask you to look carefully at this bill. I tell you in full responsibility, there's another adventure hidden by a beautiful name. We've already come to the point where we want to fill in the budget for this kind of thing, to fill out the budget, it's not a small thing, it's a small thing, it's a budget to redistribute the distribution of cars. All the more cynically, it seems that today in the State Budget, the State Budget Act for the ninth year does not have a single penny to give a car. However, it is suggested that we change the situation as to how to give them. What is proposed? And very, very subtle measures are being proposed. In the first place, if a person dies, the car stays in the family. But read the law on what basis, on what basis, he stays in the family. You will pay so much for that car that it and the new car do not cost as much as it would have to pay for the car you want to leave in the family. Another major danger. Today they want to establish in the law that if a car with a manual control, as it were, for the disabled, it is free of charge; when with another control, it is on an emergency basis. And if there is a disabled person who can drive a car and not without manual control, but with his feet and so on, and so on, how expensive it is to pay it! Once again, there is no way to uphold this law. And one more thing. I don't know if each of the national MPs has a call to the head of the Afghan Veterans' Association, a hero of the Red Army, who has recently been a colleague of ours, but on behalf of Afghan veterans, he insists on not asking anyone to uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u17	Mikhailo Chechetov is referring the right to speak to Jaroslav Sukhoma, a faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u18	Dear colleagues, read what's called a fine law about the provision of disabled cars. The deputy minister, speaking, told us who was waiting for this law, the disabled. Disabled people are not waiting for the law, disabled people are waiting for cars. How many of these people have been there for years in 2008? Zero. How much money is allocated from the 2009 budget to buy these cars? Same zero. What is proposed in this bill? The amendment to article 38 will now be deleted along with the cars. This is about the removal of orthopedic products, orthopedic shoes, fax B from the list of socio-economic services. Not the budget, it turns out, and the social insurance fund from industrial accidents is going to be searching for funds to provide for cars. (B) That's what the colleague was talking about, the head of the committee. Dear friends, but we're talking about the state trying somehow to compensate itself for someone sending humanitarian aid, this car from abroad. Now the family where the disabled person died has to pay the state fines, it turns out. First. I thought this bill would deal with the preference of a domestic manufacturer, because since 2005, there has been a general conversation with a domestic manufacturer of disabled cars. (b) I thought this was going to be about the preference of charities! On the contrary, we put them in wheels. If you accept this bill, you can turn it back first, throw it away, Valérie, what you yourself said is this norm predatory, savage. People are waiting for us to turn the car around for the disabled, and you're not. were invented as a mere penny and a scroll to tear off this poor man.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u19	Dear colleagues, discussion of the draft law. What? There is no closing word, unfortunately, dear colleagues. Please, half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u20	Dear colleagues! This bill proposes a specific situation, and it does not really provide for an increase in funding for car purchases and other problems that are not solved by cars today. But there is a particular problem that the disabled have been addressing both the committee and the government with a request “if I have a disabled person, leave this miserable car that I have had for many years in my family.” And that's actually what this is about. And when it comes to humanitarian cars, I suggested, in fact, what Adam Ivanovich and colleague Suhi had said was to vote on this law by removing the rule that the family of the deceased should pay the state these fees and taxes. And in that case, I propose to take it as a basis and generally as a law. That's it. I ask you to pay attention, on this issue, to both the disabled and Minpraci, and many letters. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u21	Dear colleagues, the bill to amend some of Ukraine's laws on the provision of disabled cars has been completed. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. I am voting on this proposal by the committee, namely to adopt a draft law amending some of Ukraine's laws on the provision of disabled persons by cars. Registration number 2740. Please vote. [[16:23:03]] For 228 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I'm going to read you the committee's decision: the committee's offering to take it as a basis. We made that decision to the committee. So please accept it on the committee, then we will continue to vote. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Puts to the vote, to be exact: submitted for consideration by Ukraine - pay attention, please! – Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Electricity, with proposals by the President of Ukraine from 10.04. In 2009 There's no report? Please, from the committee. First Deputy Head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Security and Nuclear Policy Sergey Mihailovich Titenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u22	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that on March 19th of this year, you and I have adopted, with more than 400 votes, amendments to the "On Electricity" Act to create conditions for the transparent, transparent work of the expert sector of Ukraine. [[concerning the export of electricity]] But the President returned this bill to the Supreme Council with proposals. The President's proposal regarding the Supreme Council's adoption of the law, which I am now presenting, has been considered by the Supreme Council and expresses the view that these proposals place emphasis on the issue that was the main issue: the export of electricity. The President is also of the view that it is appropriate to address the import and transit of electricity through Ukraine, which was not the subject of this law. In view of this, I would like to point out that the availability in the state of surplus electricity is almost twice as much of our power as we are using it does not make the issue of importing electricity into Ukraine from other countries urgent and our task is to increase Ukraine's export capabilities. With regard to the transit of electricity into Ukraine, the issue is also regulated by Ukraine’s international obligations. In particular, by contract to the Energy Charter, as well as by positions of electricity, so-called electric. Power supply for SND. Our law does not affect these regulations, since it regulates only internal procedures for accessing interstate electricity networks. I would like to add that, according to the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, other proposals of the President cannot be supported. What I want to add is that the main conclusion and decision of the Supreme Council committee is that, as proposed by the President of Ukraine, the editor does not create a clear legislative base on export issues, does not contribute to the creation of a competitive environment in export electricity operations and does not establish any order of implementation. And what is now leading to the monopolistic and questionable use of export power. Given the above, the Supreme Council's Committee on Presidential Proposals to this Act considers them to be such that they do not promote the purpose of the law, do not make the internal export procedure more transparent and competitive. He therefore suggests rejecting the proposals mentioned and overcoming the President's veto to an adopted law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u23	Dear colleagues. Thank you, sit down. Now, in accordance with the Rules, we will vote on the President's proposals. You have a comparative table, so please, respectable colleagues, attention. I now put to the vote Amendment No. 1 of the President of Ukraine. Don't you need to read it? Do you have any papers? You have these, please. Amendment No. 1 of the President of Ukraine. [[16:27:59]] For-13. The decision is not supported. The amendment number two of the President of Ukraine is now in place. [[16:28:23]] For-13. The decision is not taken. I now put to the vote Amendment 3 in a comparative table with the proposals of the President of Ukraine. [[16:28:51]] For -14 Dear colleagues, well, I'd like your attention. Please calm down. In view of the fact that the amendments by the President of Ukraine are not supported, I submit to the Rules a proposal by the Committee to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine under the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Law on Electricity, registration number 1371. [[concerning the regulation of the export of electricity]] [[16:29:41]] For 408 The President's veto on the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Electricity was overcome by a total of 408 votes. [[concerning the regulation of the export of electricity]] Dear colleagues, the Ukrainian Act on amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the powers of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is now under review, features of the conduct of constitutional appeals and the non-abuse of the right to constitutional submission, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 08.04. 2009, registration number 3414. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Legal Policy’s subcommittee, Filipenko Volodymyr Pilipovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u24	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Ukraine's Act on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine concerning the powers of the Constitutional Court, the features of conduct in constitutional appeals and the non-abuse of the right to constitutional application, proposed by our fellow national deputies, Lavrinović and Portnov, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 19 March 2009 on second reading and in general. On April 8, 2009, the President of Ukraine vetoed this law and returned his proposals to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the essence of which is only to reject the adopted law as one that is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. In particular, according to the President of Ukraine, the changes proposed by law do not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine, which does not contain any restrictions on the exercise by the President of Ukraine of his right to suspend the actions of the Cabinet of Ministers, etc. The conclusions of the President of Ukraine cannot be accepted on the following grounds. The logic of the proposed changes to the law is based on the need to ensure the implementation of the provisions of article 85, paragraph 15, of article 106, paragraph 15, of article 111, concerning the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and of the President of Ukraine in systemic relation to the provisions of section 12 concerning the powers of the single body of constitutional jurisdiction and section 13 of articles 154, 159, including the determination of the procedure for amending the Constitution of Ukraine. The other one. Amendments to articles 44, 45, 52, 71, 73 of the Ukrainian Constitutional Court Act are aimed exclusively at preventing abuses of the right to constitutional submission by the President of Ukraine. The same applies to the comments of the President of Ukraine regarding the proposed law on the drafting of article 100 of the Constitutional Court Act. Similarly, the comments of the President of Ukraine expressed in the first article of the first chapter of the first law, part six of article 52 of the proposed law, cannot be supported. In particular, the Constitution of Ukraine in article 106 defined an exclusive list of the powers of the President of Ukraine. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine also stated in its decision of 7 April 2004 on the Coordination Committee that the powers of the President of Ukraine are determined by the Constitution of Ukraine. At the same time, the mechanism for implementing constitutional provisions, such as the application of article 106, paragraph 15, may be specified in the relevant law. Thus, the law adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 19 March this year, without going beyond the provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine and the relevant decision of the Constitutional Court, determines the procedure for the implementation of the President's constitutional powers, strengthens the legislative guarantees of their independent use. First of all, apart from the basic principles of the judiciary laid down in Article 129 of the Basic Law, part four of the same article provides that in the courts of individual jurisdiction, including in the Constitutional Court, other principles may be laid down. We also define that the legislative changes to part one of article 98 of the Ukrainian Act on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine fill the normative content of article 85, paragraph 28, of the Constitution. At the same time, the President of Ukraine draws attention to the need to supplement the current law with the President's right to suspend the rule of law of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, while at the same time addressing the Constitutional Court as regards their constitutionality in accordance with part two of article 137 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Unfortunately, however, no specific proposals have been made by the President of Ukraine to the content of the law, although attention has been paid to the necessity of their adoption. Thus, the amendment to the Act on the Constitutional Court does not narrow down the constitutional right of the President of Ukraine, as enshrined in article 106, paragraph 15, of the Constitution, but only allows for the avoidance of the abuse of the right of the President of Ukraine to constitutional submission, and contributes to an objective and comprehensive examination of the relevant submissions. In addition, the Committee points out that according to part five, article 133, and part one of article 135 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, if the President proposes to reject the adopted voting law, there is a rejection of the law as a whole, and therefore none of the proposals made by the President of Ukraine can be taken into account during his consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Taking into account what has been said, the committee recommends rejecting the proposal of the President of Ukraine to reject the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine concerning the powers of the Constitutional Court, the specificity of the introduction of non-constitutional appeals and the non-abuse of the right to constitutional submission and the recommendation of the Supreme Council to re-adopted the prescribed law as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u25	Thank you, sit down. Dear colleagues, the President of Ukraine proposes to reject this law, the committee proposes to defeat the veto of the President of Ukraine for this law. In accordance with the Rules, may I have your attention, please? – First, the motion by the President of Ukraine to reject Ukraine's law to amend certain laws of Ukraine concerning the powers of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the specificities of the introduction of constitutional appeals and the non-abuse of the right to constitutional submission. Registration number 3414. So the President's proposal to reject this law is voted out. Ladies and gentlemen, please make your decision. [[16:36:38]] For-19 The decision is not taken. I am now voting on the proposal by the Committee on the Veto of the President of Ukraine to amend some of the laws of Ukraine concerning the powers of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the specificities of the introduction of constitutional appeals and the non-abuse of the right to constitutional submission. Registration number 3414. There's a vote. [[16:37:26]] For 386 The Ukrainian President's veto for Ukrainian law, registration number 3414, is over. The factions, please. Region Party – 164, “Block of Timoshenko” – 151, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 25, Communists – 27, “Block of Lithuania” – 19. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine is being announced for consideration. Registration number 3245. The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Rosenko Pavel Valeriyovich. Correspondent is the head of the committee, Suškevich Valeriy Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u26	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! First of all, I want to thank you for supporting the previous bill. And I would like to support the bill introduced by the Government of Ukraine on amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine. The law, which was passed at the end of 2006, was an effective impetus in the development of a system for the rehabilitation of people with disabilities in our country. At the same time, within two years of its validity, there is a need to improve certain standards of the act. In particular, the bill unifies the state administration of the disability rehabilitation system and the provision of services to disabled persons and children by rehabilitation institutions of various forms of property. First, we suggest simplifying the mechanism for the establishment of rehabilitation institutions. The function of establishing state rehabilitation institutions from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is to transfer to the central executive authorities that are in charge of the state administration of the rehabilitation system of persons with disabilities. Simplifying the rehabilitation mechanism will bring services and rehabilitation services closer to people with disabilities who live in villages and small towns and then provide the necessary assistance to a much larger number of people with disabilities who need it. Also, it will improve the quality of service provided by these rehabilitation agencies. In addition, the central authorities of the executive branch are given the right not only to develop but also to approve social standards in the area of rehabilitation. Because the basic law does not define the body that should approve these standards, even though they are intended to be developed. The draft law also establishes a single order for the provision of rehabilitation services.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u27	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u28	and disabled children by rehabilitation institutions, both state and non-state ownership. The draft act gives the government the right to approve the state registry of rehabilitation institutions, which the bill provides for. The bill also proposes to introduce the single terminology of the entire law. Please support the bill and also accept it as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u29	Thank you. Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Suškevich Valeriy Mihajlovich Valery Mikhailovich, please make the decision of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u30	Dear colleagues! First of all, I'd like to address you on the 2740 vote. I had just received a call from a colleague of mine who literally said that he was in favour of this law, which he personally addressed to the families of the disabled Afghans. I invited the honorary colleague to talk on the phone about this, unfortunately, he refused. That's why I'm calling, and I'd like to ask you, dear colleagues! I never speak out of the rostrum with political statements, and I never speak or speak. Let us put politics to the point of dealing with disability - related problems and not vote for political reasons on the part of persons with disabilities. Thank you. Now what concerns the Law on the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities. Dear colleagues! A few years ago, I passed the Law on the Rehabilitation of the Disability of Ukraine, and the time passed, he needed clarification and generalization in the practice of implementing it. That is the essence of the bill prepared by the government. In dealing with many of the issues related to the implementation of the law, some of the terminology needed to be clarified in order for the law to work more effectively and solve the problems of the rehabilitation of persons with disabilities. I will not repeat what my colleague first Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy said. The only thing I want to say is that by the standards that clarify this bill deals with the approximation of the institutions of rehabilitation to the disability itself. The bill is supported by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration and is proposed to be accepted as a basis. Please support me in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u31	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the exchange of information on this bill. It's a recording. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u32	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” We will support this bill. Although all the issues accumulated in Ukraine with the rehabilitation of the disabled are dealt with by cosmetic means. Because the main problem of people with disabilities in Ukraine, and there are over 3 million of them, is how to actually go through full rehabilitation. Because the whole issue of rehabilitation is now being completed by some means in medical or expert documentation. In fact, this rehabilitation is not being carried out. There is no such thing as rehabilitation systems in Ukraine. And we have to be honest about this. Those queues that are to get to the rehabilitation centers or to the appropriate sanatorium, we know that's good when we've been looking at the issue of the sanatorium in Saka, according to Burdenko Sanatorium, even the heavy category of spinal cords waiting for rehabilitation, to go through sanatorium treatment for years. And really, there's a problem with getting closer, creating rehabilitation centers. And this does not essentially solve the issue, it actually simplifies the registration and registration mechanism by the central authority of the executive branch. These are small steps, but still steps that can be taken today to bring rehabilitation services closer to the disabled. And that's why we're going to support this bill. And in general, there should be a comprehensive rehabilitation program, really, an increase in funding for the rehabilitation of people with disabilities and, in fact, rehabilitation of those that can be carried out at local sanatoriums and rehabilitation centres with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u33	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, any political power that is here in this room, and which is not in this room, have promised so many people. And everyone promised from the social sphere, including improving, making life easier, and improving the lives of people with disabilities. But let me try it without emotion, Valery Mikhailovich himself raised the subject. That's the situation. The state cannot provide a disabled person with a car. His car is provided as humanitarian aid, charity, and charity. He didn't get this car, he died. He didn't sweep this car; he's entitled; he didn't pay any taxes; he dies. [[disabled]] The family will also have to pay for the cleaning and all the congregations, the compulsory payments. [[Count the amount of money]] If this is a draft, that's how it was supposed to be written, not out of words here. But, dear colleagues, this is already a trend. The second bill is government. What does he propose? And the government is depriving itself of the responsibility of creating state rehabilitation institutions, removing its responsibility, and creating some central authority to carry out these rehabilitation services. And one more thing. Here you go, ladies and gentlemen. In addition to nationals, there may be nonstate forms of rehabilitation. This is where the space mayor of Kiev stands – on paid medical care. You want to be treated, you're retarded or you're disabled, you want to be rehabilitated, please have your state form wasted, and here's your non-state where you can put your money. It's not fair, it's not fair, it's hypocritical to try to play with beautiful words about the provision of disabled cars, about their rehabilitation, and picking up the last scroll and the last cents of them. I understand that you need to support the government is your right, but don't appeal to the disabled and to the Ukrainian public. This bill can't be accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u35	Dear colleagues, the discussion of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine has been completed. The committee proposes to accept it as a basis. A proposal for a committee to adopt is then put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine. [[Registration number 3245]] Please vote. [[16:48:13]] For 208 The decision is not taken. A motion for a referral is put to the vote. What? Please cancel the vote. Suskevich, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u36	Dear colleagues, what are we doing? Read the bill! The terms of the Law on the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities are clarified. And we don't vote. On what basis? Why, don't I understand? Speaking of the problems of people with disabilities, we are talking about what is today a problem, and we are talking about a specific law that deals with the rehabilitation of people with disabilities that is being clarified. Shame, what are we doing?Oh, my God! I ask you to return to the vote! Don't make politics out of this, I'm not going to reward anyone, but it's about clarifying the terms of the Disability Rehabilitation Act! Instead of the Cabinet of Ministers, this will be done by the branch! Well, you can't say no one's going to do anything. In Ukraine, several ministries, each of which has rehabilitation centers. It is suggested that this be the case, and it is the branch that decides about them! These are the specific points that are said to be the responsibility of the government. Well, that's nonsense, my dear fellows! I ask you to return to the vote and vote on this technical practical bill. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich, please return to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u37	Adam Martinyuk, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u38	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. I'm sorry to say that the head of the committee who has to take care of these problems most of all is in private business. [[I'm sorry!]] That's one thing. The other one. Everyone understands that if we hand over the right from the Cabinet of Ministers, the college body, the public body that makes all decisions publicly, to the ministry that makes decisions on its own, it's very clear why Suskevitch is lobbying for such a decision. Because one thing is to resolve the matter through the Cabinet of Ministers, and another is to resolve it through the Ministry, especially if it is headed by a representative of his political power. These amendments do not improve the lives of people with disabilities; they again do. Now, I have a suspicion of why all the disability laws take out orthopedic equipment. For some reason in each of the laws! You can't vote. It doesn't make any difference, it's another lobbyist.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u39	Thank you. Dear colleagues, at the same time, let's move forward in the way we have done, so that the session room can judge, I'll put to the vote the return to draft Law 3245. On the return to the consideration of draft law 3245. Please vote. [[16:51:20]] For 218. We're not back. Therefore, it remains to be put to the vote for re-reading the draft law, registration number 3245. [[16:51:49]] For 213 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The factions? Please. Region Party – 1, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 150, Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense – 42, Communists – 0, Litvina Block – 20. A draft Act amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the production and circulation of ethyl, horse and fruit, alcoholic beverages and tobacco products is under consideration. [[concerning the export of alcohol]] Registration number 2461. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Agricultural Policy Demczak Ivan Mikitovich. Correspondent is head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy Sergey Anatoliyovich Teryochin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u40	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, the above-mentioned draft of Ukrainian law was designed to prevent violations of economic competition legislation and to create a level playing field for all companies – ethyl alcohol producers during their export of the specified product. Part nine of article 14 of the Ukrainian Act of 19 December 1995 No. 481/95 “On State regulation of the production and circulation of ethyl, horse and fruit liquor, alcoholic beverages and tobacco products”, the Law of 29.11.2005 provides that enterprises — ethyl alcohol producers — are to export it through a state-owned enterprise specifically authorized by the Cabinet of Ministers and Ukrainian consumers through wholesale trade. To implement this decision, the Ukrainian government's law has developed and worked on projects concerning the definition of a single state-owned enterprise specifically authorized by the Cabinet of Ministers. However, our decision was not taken by interested central executives, since it was contrary to antitrust legislation in the part about the abuse of a monopoly and improperly restricted competition in the export of ethyl alcohol. In this connection, the Cabinet of Ministers, in May last year, drafted and passed the Law of Ukraine amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the production, circulation of ethyl alcohol, cognac and alcoholic beverages, tobacco products, which provides for the possibility of ethyl alcohol producers to implement it, not through a single exporter, but through state-owned enterprises specifically authorized by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The adoption of the Act will enable businesses — producers of ethyl alcohol, who will be authorized by the government to carry out such activities and are licensed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u41	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u42	80 bracelets can be self - realized in the external market under favourable conditions of alcohol, which will prevent abuse of monopolistic status and unfair restrictions on competition. Taking into account the above, and there is also a decision by the committee of profile and the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate, please, honourable national deputies, to adopt the draft of the bill on the basis of the following comments and suggestions made. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u43	Thank you. From the committee, please National Deputy Bondarev.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u44	The Honourable Chairman, Honorary Fellows, Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting on 18 June 2008, reviewed the draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the production and circulation of ethyl, horse and spirit drinks, alcoholic beverages and tobacco products, registration number 2461. The bill amends part of article 14 of Ukraine’s law on State regulation of the production and circulation of ethyl alcohol, cognac and fruit, alcoholic beverages, and tobacco products as part of the order of the conditions for the export of ethyl alcohol. Part of this. Part, in fact, provides for a monopoly on the existence of a certain state-owned enterprise, which is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to export alcohol to ethyl-enterprises - producers of such alcohol. The changes proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine provide for the possibility of exporting ethyl alcohol on condition that the relevant license is available not to one state enterprise but to a few. According to the Ministry of Agriculture’s license policy and the right to export ethyl alcohol, seven state-owned enterprises were given seven: the “Ukrspirt” concert, Vinnitské, Kyivské, Lvivské, Sumské, Chernigivské and Ternopilske alcohol associations. And so the adoption of this bill will stimulate development. It will encourage the development of competition and prevent the abuse of monopolistic status in the export of ethyl alcohol and will empower exporting companies to carry out their own external economic activities, which will meet the requirements of article 44 of the master code of Ukraine. In the light of the above, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the production and circulation of ethyl, cognac and fruit, alcoholic beverages and tobacco products, based on and.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u45	Yes, yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u46	and develop it into a second-reading procedure, complementing it with changes to other articles, such as the granting of a permit for the production of ethyl alcohol for own use to alcoholic beverages producers. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion of June 3, 2008, notes that the first reading of the bill may be based on the following considerations and proposals. Thank you very much for your attention, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up if necessary for exchange. You don't? Well, we'll see. Entry has already been declared. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. Vladislav Kaskiv, microphone, please. None. No Kaskiwa? Well, then what do we do? Alexy Plotnikov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u48	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! This bill contains things that prevent him from supporting it. In particular, we consider it appropriate to consider the need to reconcile the content of the parts of article 14 of the above - mentioned law, which states that the export of ethyl alcohol is carried out by government companies specifically authorized by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and the content of part 6 of this article, which deals with the issue of payment for the right to export ethyl alcohol. In our view, instead of the two different terms used in the given parts, namely “specially authorized” and “licension”, it is appropriate to use the traditional term “licension”. In addition, the order of such licensing should be defined in more detail in the law, particularly as to the grounds for the annulment of the relevant licences. I mean, there are things that require this bill to be worked out. Therefore, there is a proposal for a first reading of the bill to direct the subject of the legislative initiative to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues, review of the draft law, registration number 2461, completed. The committee proposes to accept it as a basis. The proposal is then put to the vote by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Law amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the production and circulation of ethyl, horse and fruit, alcoholic beverages and tobacco products, concerning the export of alcohol, registration number 2461. Acceptance as a basis, please vote. Vote please, Your Honor. [[17:01:02]] For 227 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the production and circulation of ethyl alcohol, cognac and fruit, alcoholic beverages and tobacco products is under consideration, registration number 3634. The rapporteur is Ukraine's national deputy, Mikola Petrovich Kruglov. He's a reporter. From the committee, who's going to be the Bondarev, huh? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, in 2002, we gave the Cabinet of Ministers the right to set minimum prices for liquor products, and I would like to emphasize, for both domestic and foreign producers, that is, imports. By 2005, the Cabinet of Ministers had exercised this right and regulated the minimum prices for imports and for the internal manufacturer. In 2005, when the country was granted market economy status, and especially when it began to enter the WTO, we were clearly told that such regulation was not marketable. In this regard, in 2005, the current government of Julia Tymoshenko virtually annulled these decrees. And by 2008, the rulings had not worked. In 2008, there was a decree by the Cabinet of Ministers in which we now introduced minimum prices exclusively for the domestic manufacturer. Thus, we have made our domestic producer worse than the producers who are outside of Ukraine and who are supplying imports. So today, it's basically distorted our internal market, primarily from liquor and brandy. Today, Georgia, Moldova, Azerbaijan, and other producers import and implement their products in the territory of our country without having the restrictions that our producers have today. That's the first one. Secondly, this decision, which was practically not transparent, had no calculation increased the minimum price at which to sell from 3 to 5 times. What did we do as a result? We're all the producers that were in the district.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u51	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u52	We've done what we've done, we've pushed them all the way to the level of, let's say, the Nemirov. And now there's a situation where today we have a drop in production, practically regional producers can no longer compete with such large firms. Today, six firms have practically 70 percent of the market. The last 30 percent claim to be between 65 and 120 businesses today. What resulted in the budget? I'll bring you some facts. If, compared to the first quarter of last year, one million has received a budget of 59,000. One billion 59,000 dollars coming from excise duty, an excise assembly, so this year we almost got 771 thousand, 771 million in the first quarter. But what I wanted to say in particular was, not 771 million, but that the overpayment today was already 468 million. So today, we've taken almost 468 million away from everyone in advance. So basically, this graph shows that since this decision was introduced, we've practically failed the market for liquor products. In this regard, Sam’s production and implementation have increased dramatically today. So what I'm saying is, if we have 14 bracelets today, the minimum price for vodka, 7 dollars today is a liter bottle of samona. I don't want to read to you all these things that came to me about self-inflictedness. So it's suggested that this position is agreed upon at a committee meeting, and we asked the question, let's leave this right to the government, so let's write out a transparent minimum price formation scheme for today and enforce it by law. So I'm asking for a bill to be adopted in the first reading and I'm going to be able to finalize this bill so that we have a transparent minimum price scheme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u53	Thank you. National MP Bondarev, please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u54	Dear Head, honourable colleagues, indeed the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting on 17 February 2009, reviewed the bill submitted by the People's Chamber of the Round amending the Law on Stately Regulation of the ethyl, Horsey and Fruity Spirits and Tobacco Products. Indeed, with only one vote, it was decided to support the bill. But I want to make a personal observation that this decree, mentioned here, added very serious revenue to the budget and that the excise congregation's payment was now increased in general due to the fact that this decision was adopted. And to tell you today that let's get rid of it by adopting this law, I think it's inappropriate. But this problem is the formation of a minimum price, and in general, we've discussed this very often on the committee. And for the future, you might have to work with that to make a formula minimum price. But it's to be prescribed by another bill. That's why the committee made a positive decision, but I'm not going to ask you to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u55	Dear colleagues! Do you need to discuss these bills? None. Then I put to the vote the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the production and circulation of ethyl, horse and fruit drinks, alcohol, and tobacco products. [[Registration number 3634]] I'm betting on a vote to take as a basis. Please vote. [[17:08:38]] For-170. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party - 144, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 1, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense - 0, Communist faction - 24, Litvina Block - 1. I'm voting for re-reading Bill 3634 first. [[17:09:15]] For 184 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The draft Law amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on Measures to Ensure the Permanent Functioning of Fuel and Energy Enterprises is being announced for consideration. Registration number 3692. Reporter – Minister of Fuel and Energy Yuri Vasilovich Prodan, co-rapporteur – first deputy head of the committee Titenko Sergey Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u56	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's Act of 23 June 2005 No. 2711 on measures aimed at ensuring the continuous operation of fuel-energy complex enterprises, the change to which is proposed today to target the repayment of fuel-energy debt by enterprises with appropriate accounting mechanisms. It is important that companies that are included in the register of enterprises that are involved in carrying out the calculations provided for by this law cannot be subject to the enforcement measures provided for in the Ukrainian Law on Enforcement and breach the implementation of their bankruptcy. Unfortunately, not all companies in the fuel and energy complex are now taking effective measures to pay off their energy debt, including natural gas, including imported. Moreover, not only do such enterprises not pay off the corresponding debt for energy, but they do not pay off the debt for the current consumption of natural gas. Yes, the total debt for gas consumed only in the first quarter of this year increased by almost 2 billion dollars. It should also be borne in mind that the issue of timely and full gas calculations for NAC Naftogaz is a priority, extremely acute and requires considerable financial resources. As far as the terms of the Naftogaz NAC contracts with Gazprom are concerned, a breach of the time limits may lead to an advance form of natural gas calculation, which is unacceptable. In view of this, it was necessary to amend subparagraph 3.5. Article 3, paragraph 3.5, of the Law in the order of the grounds for the existence of enterprises in the register, I emphasize and do not carry out calculations according to the procedures and mechanisms provided for in Law 2711. The proposed changes will help to increase the level of accounting for natural gas consumed and improve the financial situation of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Please support the proposed bill. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u57	Thank you! Have a seat, please. Sergei Mikhailovich Titenko's position on the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u58	Dear colleagues! The Supreme Council Committee considered a bill that had just reported and expressed such a position to the distinguished Yuri Vasilovich. Understanding the government’s efforts to improve the state of gas calculations is an incomprehensible course that the government has chosen. I want to remind you that this year you and I have continued this law for two years thanks to the honourable Mr. Carmazin. This law was directed that during a crisis it was not possible to cause an enterprise to go bankrupt or coerced. I want to say that now in the register that we're talking about is more than a hundred utilities that have and create this debt for gas. If they're increasing this debt, that's really true, we need to understand that the nature of these debts is not the nature of the company itself, it's not the right money from local budgets, there's no established tariffs at an economically sound level. If it is necessary to bankrupt a hundred businesses, it will be if the law is passed. I also want to say that there are advantages in this law that conflict with article 13 of the Constitution, apart from state-owned enterprises, with a total of 10. Ten state-owned enterprises can increase their debt for gas. I also want to say that there's no specificization of the total amount of gas in the law. This means that one enterprise can be expected to be 99.9 percent, which is a fraction of the quantity, and the other one can't be accounted for at all. Approach one is deleted from the register. And the last thing I'd like to say is that the committee has carefully considered that the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration is the same as the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u59	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u60	To reject the proposed bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u61	Dear colleagues, the position of the government and the position of the committee towards your acquaintance have been proven. Is there a need to discuss? Nobody insists? The first proposal is therefore to adopt the draft Law amending article three of the Ukrainian Law on Measures to Ensure the Permanent Functioning of Fuel and Energy Enterprises (registration number 3692). Please vote on the basis. [[17:15:05]] For-154 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, "Club of Timoshenko" – 153, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 0, Communists – 0, "Club of Lithuania" – 1. I am voting for re-reading draft Law 3692. [[17:15:37]] For-157. The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on State support for agricultural cooperatives is being announced for consideration. Registration number 3244. Rapporteur – National Deputy of Ukraine Sulkovský Pavel Gnatovic, co-rapporteur – Deputy Head of Committee Ribuk Sergey Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u62	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on State support for agricultural cooperatives is designed to ensure State support for agricultural cooperatives and to implement the provisions of the current law on non-profit of agricultural cooperatives and to define them as non-profit organisations. [[Registration number 3244]] The non-profit nature of agricultural service providers’ activities is an economic basis for combining primarily small agricultural producers to improve efficiency and promote their activities, ensure the production and processing of products. As a result of the inequities of agricultural service providers, it is proposed to eliminate abuses of this status by removing from the law the provision of services to persons who are not members of the cooperative. At the same time, with the aim of avoiding double taxation from world experience, it is suggested that the contributions of members of cooperatives, funds or property that come from agricultural service providers from their core activities, as well as passive incomes, as well as the provision of State support for agricultural service providers. Prognosis. The adoption of such a law will give impetus to the effective functioning of agricultural cooperatives, remove obstacles to their state registration as a non-profit organization, provide for the development of a State-wide targeted programme to support agricultural cooperatives, and also contribute to the expansion of agricultural access.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u63	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u64	especially private agricultural and agricultural farms for agro-services, improving agricultural producers' production processes, making more efficient use of production channels, achieving strong market positions for agricultural producers and adapting them through agricultural cooperatives to market economy conditions, reducing the number of intermediaries in agricultural production, creating additional jobs in rural areas, improving social protection for rural populations, and improving living standards in rural areas. Therefore, honourable national MPs, please support this bill in the first reading. I'd like to say two words about the conclusion of the Chief Research Administration. In fact, the Scientific and Expert Office makes some comments and suggestions, but the management suggests that this project can be accepted on the basis of the following comments and suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u65	Thank you. Please, who will be speaking from the committee? Please also by the Committee, Paul Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u66	Honourable National Deputies, after considering drafts of the Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on State support for agricultural cooperatives, submitted by Ukrainian National Deputies Jury, Sulkovsky, and amending some Ukrainian legislation on agricultural cooperatives. [[Registration number 3244]] Registration number 3244, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The committee decided: firstly, to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on State support for agricultural service cooperatives, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies Jury and Sulkovsky, a separate position of the government bill to take into account in the drafting of the bill for second reading. [[Registration number 3244]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-14-m1.u67	Yes, Your Honor, the committee's decision has been brought to your attention. Is there a need to discuss a bill? Who insists on the discussion? You don't? A proposal is put to the vote by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on State support for agricultural service cooperatives. Registration number 3244. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:21:20]] For 209 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a motion to re-read the draft Law 3244. Please make a decision. [[17:21:45]] For-200 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? We're about to make an offer. We have two more decisions to make to finish the job. When we were considering Bill 2461, there was a proposal for the committee to make a decision in order to prepare it for the second reading. It is a draft Act amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the production and circulation of ethyl, cognac and fruit, alcoholic beverages and tobacco products. I'm putting this motion to a vote: for a reduced procedure for preparing for second reading. I'd like your support, Your Honor. For the summary procedure, please vote. [[17:22:44]] For 199 The decision is not taken. I think let's do this as soon as the committee is ready, the Conciliation Board will then consider the committee's proposals. And one more question, Your Honor, I'd like your attention. At the Conciliation Council on Monday, we discussed the issue and four factions introduced a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to mark the 64th anniversary of Victory in the Great National War. If we did, your good will would now include this issue in the agenda and, if included, to adopt the appropriate draft decree. That's why I'm putting to the vote, please note, the inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order, registration number 4351 and decision-making. Please vote. [[17:23:50]] For 372 We have decided to include the Order in the agenda. Dear colleagues, you've been given the project. Can it be put to the vote? I'm voting on the adoption of the draft decree as the Order on the 64th anniversary of Victory in the Great Homeland War. Registration number 4351. Please vote. [[17:24:31]] For 369 Decision adopted. By factions, please, the Party of the Regions - 162, the Block of July Timoshenko - 138, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense - 22, the Communist faction - 27, the Block of Lithuania - 20. Dear colleagues, issues that were scheduled for Tuesday, all discussed, with the exception of those bills that have been transposed. Then, the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we will continue the 10 a.m. plenary session scheduled for Wednesday, April 15.
