ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. At the request of a colleague of Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich, I invite deputies to the session hall. Please, dear fellows, come in. We will continue our work. What? So, where's the verdict? Let's make a decision, there'll be a decision. I don't see the document. Give me the papers. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration, turn on the "Council" system. [[16:01:34]] I hereby announce the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I'm sorry, they registered cards in the 407 National Deputies Sessional Hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, let's sign up right now for what we're offering. Please have a seat. We'll sign up, you'll be able to block it, for God's sake, dear colleagues. Let's write it down, five minutes, let's talk about what's causing what's going on. Please sign in. Please, Roman Zvaric, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m1.u2	Thank you. Grizzly for him. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I believe that we have very important issues in the agenda today, including Bill 3428 on anti-fraud. On our first reading, we supported 372 national deputies. Victor Dmitrovitch of Sweden voted unanimously for him. I would ask you not to block the rostrum, but to come to a solution to this and other very important issues. What's more, if they're blocking something of the coalition colleagues, it's a question that's completely out of sync with no one. Let's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m1.u3	3428? Okay. We have it on the agenda. Gennady Samofal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m1.u4	I ask you to give the floor to the People's Deputy Chechtev Mikhail Vasilevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m1.u5	Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m1.u6	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! The fact that our distinguished colleagues from the BIT are blocking the rostrum suggests that the list of issues prepared for today is exhausted and remains unprepared. Therefore, there is a proposal for us to move forward today and to work on the committees to be finalized today, tomorrow, and by the 12th, to put forward a package of drafts, where the issues of crisis management and so on will be worked out so that there will be no blockades, and to work productively on the 12th. Therefore, the proposal is to close the session today. In mode, the committees are to be finalized today and tomorrow. And for the 12th time, prepare a full package for the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m1.u7	National Deputy School, Timoshenko's Yulia Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m1.u8	Thank you. I ask you to hand over to the deputy head of the faction Andrew Cosemiakin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m1.u9	Andrew Kozemyakin, microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m1.u10	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! At 12 o'clock we were meeting in the speaker's office and agreed that after the break, 16 o'clock, a question would be asked about the temporary commission of inquiry, the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council on the investigation of the deaths of the Ukrainian National Deputy Plunkov and the seizure by an unknown person of his property, the shares of the company Inter. We have arranged for the committee to be chaired by the honourable chairman of the Ephraimite Committee. We included all the representatives from the Party of Regions who asked and insisted. So I believe that, as we voted a week ago after the President's Commission on Poisoning, I would like to ask you to put this question to a vote, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m1.u11	Thank you. Vladimir Matviev, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m1.u12	Thank you. I ask you to pass the word to Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m1.u13	Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m1.u14	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! In fact, let us do as we agreed at the Conciliation Council in the Head. We agreed that there are two factions of interest. One stands for them now actively, and I see no interest in the faction of the Party of Regions. They also insisted on considering one of the issues at hand. And we agreed that this issue, which is almost ready, is to put only a few nuances into the draft ruling on the TSK; and the question that Shufric's colleague was going to come up with to prepare them to gather a profile committee and give them. I saw that it was as if the head of the profile committee had agreed to do so, confirmed these decisions, and now they have been considered. Let's do it this way so that these two bills can be considered by a committee of profile, and today we're going to bring them up for discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m1.u15	Jaroslav Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m1.u16	Jaroslav Kenzior, “For Ukraine” MP. I don't know what interests there are in relation to this question that Adam Martinyuk was just talking about, in both factions, but I totally understand that it has no relationship until the economic and political crisis is over. And all of these rehearsals that Parliament and some factions and MPs don't vote for some of the bills, it's just fiction. And that's the first time. Oh, that's different. Dear colleagues from the U.S. Well, remember, if you have a little bit of conscience and honor. We live, we finish the plenary week, which is the Passionous Week. Fear God, What Are You Doing? Today's Eerie Thursday, tomorrow's the Fate Friday, and sit down and, by God, spend this week humanely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m1.u17	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi has passed on the right to speak to Alexander Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m1.u18	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, let's find out what's going on. At the Contingent Council today, Vladimir Mihajlovich agreed that, when amendments were made, the draft TSC Regulation and another document, we would convene a committee, consider it, and then put it all together for consideration in the Hall. So I would like to report to you that the Temporary Investigations Commission was initiated by the creation of a deputies from factions who themselves are blocking the meeting of the Supreme Council and the rostrums that have not amended the bill they were required to introduce, return, the draft Order, and others other than them, have no right to submit. We're going through a lot of trouble. They're blocking themselves about what they were supposed to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m1.u19	Yes, dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. What? Dear colleagues, one minute, let me give you some information about the outcome of the Conciliation Council. The Conciliation Council actually discussed this issue. At the same time, you and I have agreed that all issues should be considered on the basis of the submission of relevant committees, regardless of whether the conclusion is positive or negative. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is the first you always know, voting for a positive character. If it doesn't work, then the proposal that came from the profile committee goes into effect, I mean not to support any of the draft documents. And we agreed on the Conciliation Council with you, Your Honor, that the comments that have been made before this draft decree have been removed by the authors of the draft decree. By the way, I'd like to say that I've just been informed from the Secretariat that they've made decisions in exchange and that no one has seen her yet, and you've locked down the rostrum. The next moment, what I want to say about Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk's proposal for a bill that was passed by national deputy Shufrich. Honorable colleagues, or the Supreme Council, will work for the Supreme Council, or it will work for the challenge. This bill was only registered yesterday, and we need to consider it today. The committee didn't see him, the deputies didn't read him, if you're broadcasting some kind of arrangement, so let's say that the Supreme Council of Ukraine didn't hold meetings of the Conciliation Council, didn't approve the schedule of meetings, and you guys make a deal, dial 226 votes, and continue to make fun of Ukraine. If it suits you, please let's work. In other words, I would like to say that your work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine -- 155 signatures -- I'm 30 minutes ahead of you, or how much, according to the Rules, I thank you for your work, you're not being hosted by the current Supreme Council of Ukraine, and it won't dance under your wishes. Today, some have been blocked, others have been locked down tomorrow. Read the Rules, follow the Rules. So once again, I'd like to say that the honourable colleagues, the committee, please gather together, will be a negative decision, but, at the same time, there will be a proposal to create a TSC. All of it. You'll block the next one, I'll close the session. And please don't show your muscles, show your brains, please. [[Applause]] Because it's only been reported that the project hasn't been registered yet, but they've already locked down the rostrum, is there a conscience? You just made a draft decision and you want to take it, don't you? Would you like to talk about it, please, five more minutes, please? I just signed to get a document for reproduction that you're blocking? What are you blocking, tell me? Please have the name of the national MPs on the board. Vladimir Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m1.u20	Vladimir Mihajlovich, thank you for your word. I just wanted to remind you that this situation in the Supreme Council was already happening when Natalie Vetrenko's block came out here, all 20 people went out, built up around the rostrum, and, frankly, didn't know what to say or what to do. Today, there is clearly no need for illegal acts that are not due to any common sense today, part of the Yulia Timoshenko Block. The other part of this block is ready to work. Let them first find out what they want and then put the entire Supreme Council and people of Ukraine on their knees. It's a disgrace, frankly, if it's a political organization.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m1.u21	Yuri Karmazin Party of Protectors of the Country “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the Passion Week. Let's all indulge our passions. Let's take a look at the Constitution. 150 deputies may form a commission of inquiry. That's it. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, and so it will be there in the south before, in the south later, I think on the Conciliation Council I should have come to the conclusion that it still has to be asked on any question and it has to be reflected. Obviously, now we need to be able to express ourselves to the factions that are being blocked and to propose a way out of the situation, and to explain that all citizens are waiting for us today, so that we can adopt legislation after the crisis. And the basic thing to accept, to vote for, of course, 150 votes in the room is to keep moving and not pressurizing, not stressing.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m1.u22	Deputies of the “Bloku Timoshenko” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m1.u23	Thank you, please give it to Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m1.u24	Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m1.u25	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, without passion, without emotion, the committee met on Wednesday. Decisions are positive. There are technical marks in the draft decree. They've been removed. For half a century, the draft decision. Read it. 150 votes in the room are available and went on to work. Just as we supported our colleagues on the issue of poisoning. We supported it. Technical difficulties were removed and 300 votes voted in the hall. That's right now, read those half-pages, there were two names that changed everything. That's what the regulatory committee asked us to do. It's all done. And we went on to work. Let the colleagues support the fact that we supported them last week. There's no problem: two minutes, and then we'll move on in the daytime. Indeed, many questions. Please support without emotion, without anything. It's okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m1.u26	I just want to say one thing that emotion has long been in the past, and it's all burned up in the heart. Please, Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m1.u27	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! In large numbers, if you take this stuffing away, there is no object to any conflict. There's a possibility in the faction that there's 155 people coming out of the current procedure to create any temporary commission. It is. The other thing is that it's probably easier to get into the lock and it's harder to get out. That's the problem. Then we need to keep our faces where we can go and so forth. If this decree is now being directed, the draft of the decision for circulation, if it is to be distributed to the national deputies, what is the subject of the discussion? It will be given out, a decision will be made, a vote will be voted on, a vote will be taken today, or a vote will be voted on tomorrow. Why the conflict? I said this morning, and now I'm saying that we have 13 pages just a list of the bills we need to adopt. We're on page two. So who's this job for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m1.u28	Mikhailo Chechtov, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m1.u29	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, please pass the word to Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m1.u30	Alexander Efraemov. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m1.u31	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, I ask once again to reflect on the logic of the matter. Only the author of the draft regulation shall be entitled to amend the draft order, which shall be considered in the Chamber. We all know the rules. I reiterate that the draft regulation is sponsored by representatives of the BUT faction. Make appropriate changes as authors. And Vladimir Mihajlovich will then give the commission or request to the committee. The Committee will be able to consider. We have nothing to look at, even though Vladimir Mihajlovich comes out with this request and you block it. I don't know what or why. You're just laughing in the hall, the whole country's laughing at MPs who don't understand what they're doing, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-04-16-m1.u32	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts, and now let us give logic without emotion. There was a reference to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the Supreme Council of Ukraine voted on the interim commission of inquiry concerning the problem of poisoning. [[one minute]] Yes, I voted on the basis that all the documents for this were prepared. In addition, there was the will of the two largest factions that periodically roamed the country and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's the first one. The other one. I mean, in this way, your honor, today we're going to vote one decision, tomorrow you're going to come, you're going to have to vote the second decision, the third tomorrow. It's quite obvious that any institution should be governed by the law, the Rules, and you understand that very well. Another moment that I want to talk about. I come out of what we held with you at the Conciliation Council, and it was decided that they should be proposed, they should be proposed not now, but before, because just now I showed you that a draft decision had just been made, and you've seen it beautifully. If you asked me to sit down during the break of the committee, why didn't you make the project earlier? So now or we will work in a way that will be sent and already sent to the committee this document, 150 signatures are, exactly 150 votes is, but we need to gain basic patience and vote when all procedural moments are needed to make this decision. [[and the rights of Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin that this decree will be voted on]] If you don't want to work, say so, but I want to say that no one is going to work under pressure, wherever you are and what you haven't done. You have to make one point: either we continue to work, or the Supreme Council will not work today and tomorrow. That's it: or you'll be sitting in your seats right now. The document will be ready, any decision will be made by the committee, we will consider it. You know, you know, you're given a command -- you pop up here and you block the rostrum with any reason, you don't even know what you're blocking it for. Each of you is well aware of this. I don't want to read you morals, it's the opposite, you're smart all people. What are you standing there for, tell me? You want a new coalition, you want to launch the Supreme Council? So do it. But no one will tolerate abuse. So I suggest that we either work or I close the session of the Supreme Council. All of it! Either you sit down or we don't work. So, in order to see whether we have a working Parliament or not, I'm asking you to consider the question of assigning out-of-court local elections. Let's look at it, let's look at it. No, let's get some rest. Please, once again, dear colleagues, take your seats so that we can continue our work. I understand that the coalition is starting to block the rostrum, and I don't understand what you're still looking for. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is declared closed in connection with the inability to continue working by blocking the work of the Supreme Council by the faction of BUT with absurd requirements. Thank you.
