ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:19]] [[Registration of Ukrainian National Deputies]] It was registered with 411 national deputies. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues! I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at plenary meetings on October 22, 2009. Twenty-five issues of the agenda have been considered. As a result of the review: 12 laws and 11 regulations were passed, 2 bills were adopted on a basis, 4 bills and 5 drafts were rejected. Honorary colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, are on Friday 30 minutes away from making inquiries. Let me announce the questions that have come. We've come to ask the Ukrainian National Deputies: Vassil GREECE to the President of Ukraine on the danger of access to information databases of voters who do not have adequate authority and potential corruption that pose a threat to national security. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:02:49]] For-144 Request not supported. To the President of Ukraine, Vladimir YAVORIYSKA on the existence of dual citizenship in the people of Crimea, Sevastopol, and Zacarpathia, which is a grave violation of the Constitution of Ukraine and threatens the national security of the State. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:03:21]] For-52 Request not supported. OXANA BILOSIR to the President of Ukraine on urgent measures for the development and implementation of the draft Act on Ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children from Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Depravity. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:03:56]] For a hundred and Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:04:17]] For 175 The decision is not taken. Jury KARMAZIN to the head of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council on Privatization, Minister of Interior, Head of the State Customs Service, Acting Head of the State Property Fund, Head of the Security Service, Attorney General of Ukraine on the improper response to parliamentary appeals since 12 August 2009, on the verification of the facts of the dissolution and the destruction of state property in particular large-scale, deliberate bankruptcy of VAT Photo, which is strategically important to Ukraine, on the illegal transfer of the listed association to its leaders, on the illegal privatization of state property, on the fictitious enterprise, on the conduct of actions that threaten economic security of the State to carry out the duties of the head of VAT's leadership, on the part of the Archak Saruhan. Boris PETROVA to Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the urgent consideration of the project and the title of the construction of the highway through the Dnipro River in Zaporozhye with the determination of the real value, the construction period, the provision of sufficient continuous funding. Valeria BEWZA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the situation at the state-owned airline Viennese Aviation. Vassila GREECE to the Prime Minister, the Head of the Security Service, the Attorney-General on the danger of accessing information databases of non-authorised voters and possible corruption that threaten national security. Vasil GREECE to the Prime Minister, the First Deputy Prime Minister, the Deputy Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Head of the National Migration Service of Ukraine for the possible violation of current legislation by the State-owned enterprise "Document", which is developing an electronic system for the calculation of citizens for the formation of an electronic database of population registration in Ukraine and possible corruption in the higher levels of government that poses a threat to national security. Victor SLAUTI to the Prime Minister on illegal possession of property and land belongings of the inhabitants of the village of Grujk Golovanów in the region of Kirovograd. Victor SLAUTI to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the activities of the agricultural society with limited responsibility "Slavutic" village of Manuilovka Malovskiv district of Kirovograd. Mr. DEMJANČUK to the Prime Minister for the inclusion in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine decision of 4 November 1993 on the list of institutions and institutions for education, health and social protection and jobs at which he is entitled to retirement for years, the establishment of "art school" and "concertmeister" posts. Vladimir BONDARENKA to the Prime Minister regarding the situation in the field of oncology and around the National Institute for Cancer. Mr. Vladimir DANILENKA to the Prime Minister regarding the unsatisfactory work of the Administration of the Pension Fund of Ukraine in the town of Šostka, the Chief Administration of the Pension Fund of Ukraine in the Sumski district, the Chief Directorate of Labour and Social Protection of the Sumski District Administration, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine in the formation of a pension at the end of the pension under Schedules No. 1 and No. 2 to former employees of the Open Shareholders Association of the Shareholder Company "Svema". Vladimir CARPUCA to the Prime Minister for funding the completion of a pedestrian bridge in 2010 across railway lines at the Lutsk Volinsk Region Station. Edouard PRUTNIK to the Cabinet of Ministers on the need to verify the information provided in the collective appeal of the residents of the villages of Prochora and Shevchenko in the Chernigiv region regarding the non-payment of property rations and partial non-payment of land leases for agricultural purposes and land parts from companies with limited liability "Prochoorski" and "Agrotrade" and the consideration of a re-collective appeal on behalf of the 370 inhabitants of the village of Sivoloz, owners of state-owned acts on land, regarding the absence of a real result in resolving the same question, which was asked by the MP on 5 June 2009, and the need for appropriate measures to be taken to ensure that private investors in the area of effective legislation in the context of providing economic and social property compensation. [[pears]] Eugene KARJKOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation surrounding the state utility company of Odessa’s sanitary car transport. Igor ŠAROV to Prime Minister of Ukraine for information on the state of development of the State Energy Conservation Programme in Ukraine for 2010. Caterina VASCHUK to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on delays in the recalculation of the budget for the Lutsk electric transport company for the transport of passenger credit categories. OXANI BILOSIR to the Prime Minister on urgent measures for the development and implementation of the draft Act on Ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children from Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Depravity. OXANI BILOSIR to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for ignoring the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine needs children with impaired vision to provide them with school textbooks with increased flat font and special notebooks. Alexander KUZMUKA to the Prime Minister for the illegal actions of the management of the State Defence Ministry of Ukraine's Ministry of Defence, the Ukrainian Air Transport Company, which resulted in major damage to the state and put the enterprise on the verge of bankruptcy. Mr. Alexander KUZMUKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the violation of existing legislation in the course of the alienation of property and objects of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. Mr. Alexander POPOVA to the Prime Minister for the improvement of housing and social facilities. Mr Paul SILCHANA to the Prime Minister about the repayment of the accounts payable from salary in the Old Age region of Volinsk. Roman ZABZALJECK to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-response of the Minister of Environmental Protection to possible abuse of office and violation of anti-corruption legislation by the Head of State Environmental Inspection in the Mikolai region of Vitalia Babenko. Roman ZABZALJECK to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the failure to carry out the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers and the failure to respond to the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Ministry of Housing and Utilities, the Ministry of the Ukraine for Emergency Situations and Population Protection from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster and the Mikolayev Regional State Administration for a parliamentary appeal to resolve the issue of financing work for the design and replacement of the area of the intensive sewage collector on the streets of the Ribni city of Mikoljeva, which is in emergency condition. GORDIENKA's Sergy to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the need to protect the interests of the state-owned enterprise Poltavanaftegazgeology and its labour team, to prevent the transfer of geological objects to private property, to bring responsibility to those involved in the bankruptcy of the listed enterprise. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister on the provision of Sosnicki sugar and other ten areas of the Chernigiv region from the State Material Reserve. [[KOMARA, PRINCIPLES, CHECK]] Mr. Mikoli Komara and Mr. Ivan Vernidubov to the Prime Minister for the completion of the construction of the high-pressure pipeline Yalta-Forros-Sevastopol. Valery BEWZA to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General, concerning the improper investigation by the employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine's Department of Internal Affairs in the Vinicki area of the criminal case of accusing a group of persons of committing a crime, as provided for in article 1, paragraph 1, of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. VALERIA BONDIKA to the Minister of Justice for the gross violation by officials of the Chief Justice Department in Kiev of Ukraine’s legislation and for the prosecution of them. Valery of the Writership to the Ministry of Finance regarding the revocation of the Society's license with limited liability "M.S.L." the right to conduct the business from the release and to hold the lottery for actual bookmaker activity in the form of the Sportliga lottery. Vassila GUREYEV to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General of Ukraine for refusing Solomonian Paradise to rule over Ukraine’s Ministry of Internal Affairs in Kiev, a violation of a criminal case involving the illegal incarceration of a citizen named Victoria Columbus by an apartment belonging to a citizen of Alli Yacenko. Victoria DEMJANČUK to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the contradictions of the decision of the Social Insurance Fund against accidents in production and occupational diseases of Ukraine No.24 to the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 29 of the Ukrainian Act "On mandatory public social insurance against accidents in production and occupational diseases that have caused loss of employment". Mr. Vladimir PILIPEN to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Head of the Higher Qualifications Commission of the Ukrainian Bar Association, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Kyiv City Head, on giving a legal assessment of the fact of his own appointment as head of the Qualifications and Disciplinary Commission of the Bar in Kiev and on the falsification of documents relating to such appointment by a citizen of Other Rafal. Mr. Vladimir STRETOVIĆA to the head of the State Committee on Land Resources, acting as Director-General of the Department of State Land cadastre for the cessation of mass violations of the rights of Ukrainian citizens in the exercise of their legitimate right to free privatization of the land. Vladimir STRETOVIĆA to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the examination of the facts of a possible criminal conspiracy within the Ukrainian State Committee, which resulted in a massive violation of Ukrainian citizens’ rights in the acquisition of the right to land. Edward PRUTENIK to the Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine regarding the collective appeal of the inhabitants of Shevchenk, the town of Borznian district of Chernigiv, on the establishment of a gas station next to housing and a transformer substation, without taking into account the opinion of the people and the consent of the community living on this street. Ms. Eugene KARJKOVA to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine regarding the illegal detention of a Ukrainian citizen in a detention facility on the island of Marguerite of the Republic of Venezuela. Igora RIBAKOVA to the head of the High Council of Justice for the conduct of a review of the activities of the Primorski District Court of Odessa and for the resolution of the issue of the release of Sergio Kitchmarenko and Svetlana Jaros from the office of judges of the Primorski District Court of Odessa for the violation of an oath. Igor RIBAKOVA to the Head of the Supreme Court, Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, on the issue of unqualified decisions, inconsistencies in the performance of their professional duties, violations of the rules of material and procedural law by the judge of the Kharkiv district of Olga Cononov. Mr. Tomenka, head of the State Committee on Land Resources for the Obstacle to the Peoples of the Rural Region of the Kyiv Region, which is located in the area of the Regional Landscape Park of the Tritemirs, is entitled to exercise the legal right to free privatization of land. Mr. Mikoli Sherschun to the Society's temporary administrator with limited liability for the failure to respond to a parliamentary appeal regarding the return of deposits to company clients with limited liability "Ukrainian Industrial Bank". Mr. Mikoli Shershun to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine on dissatisfaction with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy's response to the MP's appeal regarding the numbering of pensions for citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. OLEGO ZARUBINSKI to the Minister for Housing and Utilities of Ukraine on the involvement of officials who wrongly delay the start of the heating season in Ukraine. The Olege ZARUBINE to the Minister of Environmental Protection of Ukraine regarding the state and local government’s inaction in the disposal of harmful chemical wastes and the disposal of mercury residues in the Radical plant’s territory, which put health and life in constant danger to the inhabitants of the left-hand section of Kiev. Oleg TYCHENKA to the Minister for Environmental Protection, the Attorney General, the Kyiv City Head, for the violation of land law in the use of land on Truhanovo Island in Kiev. Alexander ŠEPELEVA to the minister of Ukraine for emergencies and for protecting the population from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster of taking measures to prevent the repetition of fires at mineral fertilizer stores from being stored improperly. Alexia KOSTUSEVA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Security Service, the Attorney General's Office on the involvement of Odessa's city chief, Edward Gurvis, Igor Hotin, in a number of criminal acts, including murder warrants. The Ministry of Justice, the Attorney-General for the violation of the rules of article 49 of the Constitution of Ukraine as head of the Poltavian District Administration, in part depriving the population of the free provision of medical care in public and municipal health institutions of the area by adopting an order "On the approval of tariffs for paid services provided by the public health authorities and municipal health institutions of the area" and the need for this act to be properly evaluated. Ulysses MOSTIPAN to the head of the National Electricity Regulatory Commission of Ukraine on the improper consideration of the MP's request to restrict Kivoblanergo's PAT to the provision of water and water treatment facilities in the village of Central Mironów Region of Kyiv Region. LITHUANIA’S Jury to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the lack of effective supervision of the criminal investigation into the arson of vehicles carried out by unidentified persons in the city of Mikolayev in September 2008. Jury CARMAZINA to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, acting as Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Kyiv City Head for the verification of obstacles to legal economic activity, the coercion of anticompetitive concerted activities, the abuse of the market in ritual services in Kiev, unfair competition, the gross violation of antimonopoly legislation of Ukraine by Igor Kucherenkom and the official figure of the Kyiv City Government, in relation to the subjects of farming in the area of ritual services of the city of Kiev, with the application of antimonopoly legislation to owners, founders and employees of farming in the given sphere, physical and mental violence, the destruction of property in the area of civilian health, the application of property to owners, founders and employees in the given sphere of physical and mental violence. RUCA’S Jury to the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine for the 2010 adjustment of the budgets of the village councils according to real indicators. Jury KRUKA to the first Deputy Minister of Transport and Liaison of Ukraine, Vasil Shevchenk, on the use of measures to protect the interests of the crew of the Mikola Zabłotsky. Groups of National Deputies to the Head of the Security Service, the Minister of Internal Affairs, on taking urgent action to prevent new provocations around the Odessa TV channel, as well as the installation of customers and bloody provocation organizers associated with the attack on journalists of this company on September 29th of this year. [[SEBREW, CANDJORA, and others]] ANDRYA PAVLOWSKI to the Attorney General for not allowing commercial advertising to be placed in schools and preschool facilities in Kiev. Vladimir DANILENKA to the Attorney-General on the conduct of all forms and means of pre-election advocacy and compliance with the requirements of Chapter VIII of the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine throughout Ukraine. Igor SAVCHENKA to the Attorney General on the legality of the creation of new self - organization committees in Cherkasa and the legitimacy of the actions of the city’s head Sergio Odaric. MIKOLI KULČINSKI to the Attorney General regarding the violation by the Ternopil City Council of law in the privatization of the land area. Alexander WALKOW to the Attorney General about the dangerous situation that occurred in an accident on the street of Žiljanska No. 114, which threatens the life and health of the inhabitants. Alexia KOSTUSJEVA to the Attorney General, head of the Kyiv District State Administration, on the violation of private property rights and the inaction of law enforcement agencies. LITHUANIA’S Jury to the Attorney General on the organization of an improper response by officials of the Kyiv District Attorney’s Office to a parliamentary appeal for violations of rights and material damage to a particularly large-scale citizen named Alexander Gorbach. Jury PROKOPČUCA to the Attorney General on the gravity and improper treatment of the authorities of the Prosecutor's Office of the Žitomir District of numerous appeals by the disabled group Boris Bliznuk. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General for the purpose of determining the reasons for the omission of law enforcement authorities in the matter of criminal investigation committed against the citizen of Igor Markov, the organizer of the brutal beating of the peaceful Picquet in Odessa, the attack on members of the Security Service, and the verification of the circumstances of the dismissal by the prosecutor of the Mikolai district of Mikola Stoyanov of the decision to declare Igor Markov a wanted. [[SEBREW, CANDJORA, and others]] Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General regarding the examination of the legal grounds for the criminal offence against the Uzhgorod city head Sergio Ratushnyak. [[QUIET, Verdubov, and others. Total 13 deputies]] Andrija PAVLOWSKI to Kiev City Head, prosecutor of Kiev City for preventing the destruction of the children’s playground on Lunacharsky Street, 20b in the Dniprovi district of Kiev as a result of illegal construction. To the head of the Kiev City State Administration, Vladimir JAVORIY, who is to build multi-floor dwellings with underground parking facilities specifically for officials of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine. JERESIAH Igora to the head of the Church State Administration for the conduct of actions by the Cerkas region’s public administration aimed at restoring the funds invested to members of the region’s credit unions. Alexander ŠEPELEVA to the Kiev City Head for an urgent solution to the problem of the heat supply of schools and residential buildings in the Bologna district of Kyiv. The branch of the Head to the Kyiv City Head regarding the unjustified delay in establishing a memorial board for a real member of the Academy of Pedagogical Sciences of Ukraine, the State Prize laureate of Ukraine, a well - deserved scientist, a professor, a doctor of medical science, Constantine Kulczyck. SERgy OF THE Head of the Cherkas District State Administration for an improper response to a parliamentary appeal regarding the construction of a monument to Taras Shevchenk in the village of Wilshana in Cherkashina in preparation for the celebration of the 200th anniversary of the birthday and the 150th anniversary of the death of the Great Cobzar. Ladies and gentlemen, 105 parliamentary inquiries have been made. At the same time, I ask your attention to return to the consideration of the questions proposed for referral to the President of Ukraine. I'll put it to a vote. Do we have to vote back on the questions? Dear colleagues, I ask you to support, return and vote back on the requests addressed to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:24:59]] For 213 The decision is not taken. Please, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u2	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, yesterday after the Conciliation Council, after a unanimous decision by all the factions, you announced that today's day will be the first to consider Bill 3170 on the fight against organized crime and corruption. Sadly, he did not appear to be in the daytime. It is said that we follow the Rules and the order of the day, which we have not considered. We didn't look at the bridges at the time, but they are today. We don't mind looking at a bill about bridges in Zaporozhye. But I would ask that the decision of the Conciliation Board unanimously be implemented yesterday. That's why I'm asking you to consider Bill 3170 today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u3	Dear colleagues! Yesterday we made a unanimous decision by the Conciliation Council that we would consider Bill 3170 today. I'm asking you to distribute it while we're looking at 4758, and then we'll look at 3170. No objections? Please, Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u4	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The faction urges us to consider the market congregation today. We didn't get to him yesterday. An extremely important bill. He's being considered. There are conclusions. We would ask that we reach him today. That's the only request. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u5	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen. Vladimir Karpuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u6	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” Volodymyr Mikhailovich, yesterday, more loyally, we made a decree on parliamentary hearings on health reform more than three months later. And according to a parliamentary hearing, one of the top-notch bills to be considered by the Supreme Council is a package of laws relating to state-owned compulsory health insurance. I will ask you to include these bills in the Conciliation Sunday for a week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u7	No, the faction has already come out. Mikola Petrovich Kruglov. We're one of the factions, dear colleagues, that's a discussion. One from the faction will appear.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u8	Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! We said that if we follow the Rules, there can be no such thing as being included without a committee for consideration, including issues such as the market congregation. On Tuesday, we considered the bill by the government, rejected it, and reworked it. Now it's in a new edition that no one has seen, including the committee, that you're taking to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, this is a discussion. Let's all calm down. We have a schedule. The draft law on the market assembly, no documents, stands only in the section “Inclusion into the agenda”. So everybody calm down and we'll work. Let's do it this way: let the committee look at it and give it a start. The Supreme Council can't work without a document. Dear colleagues, I have a proposal, the first to please all of us, to vote in favour of the Supreme Council of Ukraine working towards the completion of the consideration of the issues set out in the schedule for today. I'm making this proposal, please vote. Then there'll be no charges. Work toward a comprehensive consideration of issues today. [[10:29:08]] For 139 The decision is not taken. I'm going to put another motion on the vote: to consider the bills on a reduced basis. Please vote. [[10:29:32]] For-157. Decision taken. A draft Act amending article 76 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009 is being announced for consideration. [[on the construction of a highway across the Dnipro River in Zaporozhye]] The rapporteur is deputy head of the Committee on Budgets, Pecklesenko Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Nine months have not passed since we came up with the long - suffering issue of bridge construction in Zaporozhye. For your consideration, it is proposed to amend article 76 of the State Budget Act, which aims at resolving financial security issues in 2009 for the construction of a highway through the Dnieper River in Zaporozhye by sending 500 million bracelets from the State Budget Stabilization Fund. From the source. I repeat, for those who have questions, where there are sources. There's a source. This is the source of funds that have been released from the Stabilization Fund in other areas under the Act on Amendments to the State Budget Act of Ukraine. [[No. 1608]] You and I voted for him, and there's almost 5 billion bracelets loose. The construction of the highway, which has been intensive since 2004, has become one of the most topical issues not of Zaporozhye and Zaporozhye, but of Ukraine as a whole. It must be understood that this highway is built as a state-wide one, bringing together the following important centres of Ukraine: Harikov, Simferopol, Sevastopol, Borispol, Donetsk. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in addition to this crucial argument, it is developing, this highway, to ensure that the programme for the expansion of the tourism infrastructure is implemented. The Euro-2012 without this bridge is under threat. The construction of the highway is of great importance, of course, for Zaporozhye and Zaporozhye.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u11	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u12	It should be made clear that the existing highways at 612 vehicles miss 5,000 cars daily. Probation's good. I just figured out why a 17-mile stretch. To withstand traffic jams like this. And the last main argument. The Zaporozhye area is an area of labour. It enrolls 6 billion dollars a year in the State budget. This is 3.5 times more than the average area in Ukraine. We don't ask anyone for anything. We ask less than 10 per cent for bridge financing. Poet, respectable colleagues, it's not just a bridge vote, it's a vote of respect for the city of service.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u13	Thank you. We need to adopt the law, right? Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion. Please sign up. Please put your names on the board. Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, it is very good that we are finally considering this bill, which practically every plenary week in this session hall is mentioned, and is mentioned not only during this year but for many years. Moreover, what I would like to remind each of my colleagues is that all the highest acts of the states that were in Zaporozhye: both the President, and the Prime Minister, and the Head of the Supreme Council, and, without a doubt, the fellow MPs who were there, promised in one voice that they would necessarily join in solving the problem. It's so urgent, so necessary, so understood that there's probably no need to keep talking about what we really need to do. In view of today’s reexamination of the changes to the State Budget Act, I would like to return to the problem that I spoke yesterday: the problems of where and under what conditions 110 national deputies live, which are the conditions for financing a special complex matter. So, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, I propose that we put in bill number 4758 today: increase the expenditure on the general budget of the State Budget by 17 million 301 thousand dollars to pay off the debt. [[Code No. 0111-010]] And in this context, in order for there to be no legal case, I suggest you change the name of today's law, call it: “To amend the State Budget 2009 Act. Not just in a separate article, if I'm not mistaken, 76th, but on amending the State Budget Act for 2009. I'm asking you to support these two proposals, Your Honor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u15	National Deputy Kranyy, Block faction. Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u16	Dear colleagues! The bill that we agreed to at the Conciliation Council within five factions was indeed decided to put it first today. And as it was said yesterday, when we vote on a bill on budget changes that unfortunately was not supported by our colleagues from the Party of Regions, today we support this issue, putting it in order of the day, and we support the vote in the first reading necessarily. We know Zaporozhye's problem, we know the problem, we know the Dniproges problem, and we know the events at Siyano-Shushen GES. This has been convincingly demonstrated that the technology problem is, and it is, and is linked to Dniproges, which is now both a transport highway and is now a source of cheap energy. So today the faction has decided to support the bill. As to the sources, I'm talking to a fellow reporter, about the sources, they're a little bit questionable because we need to review what we voted yesterday. Adam Ivanovich further suggested that the bill be filled with content in connection with the problems of the Supreme Council. So, colleagues, today we need to vote on the first reading, and we need to redraft this bill for the second reading in a simplified procedure. The faction will support the solution. And in return, the prime minister was in Zaporozhye on the 10th, and at a huge public rally, she promised to support this project. In this regard, we also carry out the Prime Minister’s mandate to control this object. Thank you. We will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u17	Valerius Baranov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u18	Deputies! I am very pleased that all Zaporozhye deputies are united that we are discussing today, in fact, the most evil problem in the Zaporozhye region, apart from the bridge and the environment, we are dealing with the rest of the problems with little or no value. And we all see how our common love for fairy tales is very appropriate when we all and our leaders come to Zaporozhyeland, they like to jump on horses, plant a tree, have a drink with a fairy tale sabre, but it is virtually impossible to get to that island. Of course, this is not evident from the vehicle that is being missed without a turn through this semi-destructive bridge. Therefore, I am confident that the city, which gives 12 per cent of the gross product of our State, must have a normal bridge through which people must travel to and from work. Zaporozhye had $119 million borrowed from the State budget this year in addition to what was due. This city is occupied by workers who are worthy not to stand in traffic for hours. That's why we have a duty to support this bill with you, and I'm turning to all factions, and finally to complete the construction of our bridge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u19	Yuri Carmazin, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u20	The faction can take one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u21	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Of course, if you're going to have to build a city in the capital of Ukraine, I'd like to pay attention to one detail right now. Changes to the State Budget are made to article 76, where 500 million dollars are allocated. But the source from where to get it, but as much as it affects other budget indicators, there's nothing in Minfin. I want to draw attention to the fact that we cannot consider similar bills without proper preparation. The faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" is going to vote in favour, but you can't make projects like this. Where are all the calculations? Minfin's got to do all the math right now. So let's see how much money it takes for this year and how much money it takes for that year, or they can.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u22	Yes, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u23	Can these funds now be recovered by the end of the year? If they're going to be selected and how much they can do, because the content needs to be built, not just written down now before the elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u24	Dear Yuri Anatoliyovich, distinguished colleagues, is about to be counted largely for the work that has been done, because the construction of the bridge cannot be stopped and the equipment that needs to be installed can be purchased. Who from the Party of the Regions hasn't spoken? Please, Jaroslav Suhi, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, I call on the session room to support this bill, given that this issue is also a political one. Because the food environment of separatism in the South East is precisely an inter-budgetary and eerie injustice that has in the past two years become a sign of a threat to social, social, and stability. The highway, which began to be built by the government of Yanukovic, was twice stopped in the construction of the "orange". And this is not the problem of one city in Zaporozhye, which has been re-loaded, the area has been overloaded, 6 blocks of Zaporozhye Nuclear Power Station. For us, for Ukraine, this is a matter of national strategic security. I support my colleague Karmazin to see how sincere the Prime Minister's promises were in Zaporozhye, how sincere the support of the BUT faction of this bill. I, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, propose to support this bill and to vote not only on the basis but on the whole. Hooray!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. Now so we know what we're going to vote for. It is proposed in the title of the law, the title of the law of this content: “To amend the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009”. [[May I have your attention, ……]] It's been fixed for the stenographer. We add a position to the law: “To increase spending on the general budget of the State budget under the budget programme by 17 million 301 thousand dollars for repayment of debts”. [[Code 0111010]] And with that in mind, I'm voting on the committee's proposal, the adoption as a basis, and the whole bill (registration number 4758). [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! This is the committee's proposal. You're not a committee. Sit down, please. Ivan Grigorovich! Dear colleagues! Ivan Grigorovich, listen to what I'm telling you. Dear colleagues, when yesterday before 19 p.m., we turned the law like a gypsy in the sun, and you demanded a vote, and now you don't want to vote - have a conscience! I'm voting on the committee's proposal. You don't have to. I'm voting on the proposal of the adoption committee as a basis and as a whole the draft law with the amendments I said. [[Registration number 4758]] Vote, please, Your Honor, come on. [[10:43:59]] For 396 The law is passed. Dear colleagues! Give me a chance to work. All of it. [[B in m in s a l in]] A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the improvement of the organizational and legal framework for the detection, prevention and cessation of organized crime and corruption is under consideration. [[3170]] The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption of Jig Mikol Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u27	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! To implement a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 19 March this year, a committee on taking into account observations and proposals by entities of the right to legislative initiative has finalized the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the improvement of organizational and legal bases, detection, warning and cessation of organized crime and corruption and submitted it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for consideration in the second reading and adoption as a whole as a law. After the adoption of the bill as a whole, the committee received 42 proposals from national deputies, most of which were taken into account in whole or in part. The bill proposes to amend and supplement the laws of Ukraine on the organizational and legal basis of the fight against organized crime, on the fight against corruption, on the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the improvement of the organizational and legal basis of prevention, opposition, detection and cessation of corruption, organized crime, improvement of parliamentary control by the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In particular, the order for the creation and liquidation of structural units in the fight against corruption and organized crime, the appointment and release of their leaders, their subordination, the refinement of the powers of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to combat organized crime and corruption in this area. Article 14 of the Ukrainian Act “On the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine” is supplemented by a new paragraph on the supervisory functions of the committees, which provides for agreement on matters and consultations on the appointment and discharge of the Heads of the relevant State bodies, which relate to the subject of committee disclosure, as well as other consents, to consultations in cases provided for by law. According to the general conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Chief Legal Authority, the bill can be adopted in a second reading and subject to the comments of the General Office. I would like to emphasize to the Ukrainian National Deputies that the Constitution of Ukraine, article 85, paragraph 33, provides that the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are to exercise parliamentary control within the limits defined by the Constitution and the law. Thus, the Constitution of Ukraine explicitly states that the limits of the Supreme Council’s control powers and its committees are also defined by law. Such laws include: the Ukrainian Act on Committees of the Supreme Council, on the organizational and legal basis of the fight against organized crime, on diplomatic service, which provides for certain supervisory powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thus, the current rules of the legislation, as well as the amendments proposed by the bill, on the harmonization of matters of appointment and discharge from the positions of heads of bodies that combat organized crime, are in full conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine. More than that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u28	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u29	Thank you. What is more, the language follows the prior agreement, this consultation, and the final decision remains with the ministries and departments. In addition, the proposed changes not only specify the order of appointment and release of the designated officials, but also aim at improving parliamentary control of the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the subject of their knowledge. Such statistics on the work of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption and its secretariat may also indicate the appropriateness of adopting such a bill. Thus, in January-September 2009, the committee discussed over 3,000 citizens' appeals, most of whom were involved in illegal actions by law enforcement and judicial authorities, corruption, circular communication, illegal criminal offences, securities custody, the permissible substantial burden on the decision-making of appeals, and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u30	Thank you. Mikolo Vasilovich. Let's go to the repairs. Dear colleagues, we're on our way. Amendment number one. It's counted. Who insists on it? No, it's not. Amendment 2. Is Rybek insisting? It's rejected. No, it's not. Amendment 3. No, it's not. Amendment 4. Is the ferret insisting? No, it's not. Amendment 5, Bobills. I can't see. Next. Amendment 6 counted. Seven count. Eight. 9th. 10 revisions. Are they insisting on her? No, it's not. I'm still looking at the amendments. 15th Amendment, Bobills. No, it's not. The 18th is not. The 19th is not. 21st doesn't insist. I can't see. Now we're going to go through all the repairs, dear colleagues. One minute. Now, one minute. Amendment 40, 41 and 42 of Bobil's, insists? No, it's not. All corrections are taken into account. Dear colleagues, the committee is offering. May I have your attention, please? I'll read out the committee's proposal. Adopt in the second reading and generally as a law. Is there no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u31	I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee in the second reading and in general as a bill of the bill amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on improving the legal framework for the detection, prevention and cessation of organized crime and corruption]] Once again, registration number 3170. Please vote. [[10:50:56]] For 377 The law is passed. Thank you. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on public participation in the formation and implementation of public policy is being announced. Rapporteur – Justice Minister Mikola Vasilovich Onischuk, co-rapporteur – head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government Committee Mikola Fedorovich Traiduk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u32	The Grand Head of the Supreme Council! Dear National Deputies! The Government of Ukraine is introducing a draft law to the Supreme Council of Ukraine aimed at creating legislation, drawing attention to it, laying the groundwork for strengthening the right of citizens of Ukraine and civil society institutions to participate in the administration of state affairs and local self-government. This is proposed by supplementing article 9 with the “pr..” Law on Local Self-Government and by introducing in a new edition of article 37 of the Law on Local Government Administrations, which, inter alia, stipulates: First. Ensure that public expertise can be carried out by relevant government agencies and local self-government bodies. Public activity expertise. The other one. The creation of councils, public councils with the relevant authorities and public authorities and local authorities. Third. The introduction of public consultation mechanisms when decisions are taken by the appropriate authorities. Thus, it is essential that, in essence, the practice that has already been established in the State with regard to public participation in decision-making by public authorities, in particular local government and local government authorities, formalize it, create an appropriate legislative basis for it and thus involve citizens more actively in matters involving citizens, in the administration of public affairs and in the affairs of local self-government. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u33	Thank you. Please sit, Mikolo Vasilovich. Please, the committee's decision. Mikola Fedorovich will provide information on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u34	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government at its meeting on September 2, 2009, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine on Public Participation in the Formation and Implementation of State Policy, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The draft law proposes to amend the Ukrainian Laws on Local Self-Government in Ukraine and on Local Government Administrations with a view to creating, at the legislative level, appropriate legal mechanisms for implementing citizens, both directly and through civil society institutions, their constitutional rights to participate in the administration of public affairs in resolving matters of local importance. The Committee on Legal Policy, the Committee on Budget Affairs, gave positive conclusions. The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine on public participation in the formation and implementation of public policy, addressing local issues when considering the first reading, to be adopted as a basis. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u35	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko and Yuri Anatolyevich Karmazin Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u36	May I have a word with Mikola, Mr. Volodymyrovich Tomenko?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u37	Mikolo Tomenko. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, I think it's a timely and proper initiative. But we need to think about how, when we debate between the first and the second readings, how we can analyze the practices of existing public councils. Today, it seems that, for example, in most ministries, public councils exist. Rather, there must be general practice, and we must make a decision or recommendation that belongs to the powers of these public councils, monitoring the activities of the authorities, in this case local councils and local administrations; their ability to influence the adoption of decisions, such as the principles of decision-making, because we already have a public hearing institution. For example, Kyiv city authorities work in public hearings. The day before the public hearings, at night, an announcement hangs for five minutes on one pillar, then it is taken off, and a report is made that according to public hearings the people of the microregion are asking them to sell their park and build a large house there. And so, formally, public hearings took place. No one has ever heard of these public hearings or been present. So for us today, it's important to raise this problem, which is, in terms of content, absolutely correct in terms of public participation to, in this case, control of the local authorities, to look at and see that we have to make sure that these institutions, as public hearings, are not just a formal addition to the local executive authorities, and they really influenced the decision-making process, they really controlled the system of government. So my proposal is to support the committee in the first reading and perhaps in discussing the second reading to analyse the practices of the public councils that are already in operation, and in the second reading to make them not a formal institution, but a real institution to control the system of local executives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u39	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” faction. Then one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u40	Yuri Carmazin. I think that this bill is positive, but I would like to caution against adopting this bill as a whole. Because of what? Because self-government bodies are created and formed around the globe for one purpose -- to carry out appropriate functions of governance on behalf of and in the interests of social communities on a permanent, professional basis, specially trained people, who are responsible to the state and citizens in the next election, political responsibility and so on. And creating a situation where we have to reconcile all the time, it has its limits, and it can't be that it always depends on what it does to make the right decisions, and it's going to block it somehow. Because of this, you have to write these rules more clearly, and the circle of issues that will be dealt with in the solution has to be completely normal, and we have to talk about those cases if. I'm not sure what Exclusion is one of these issues, for sometimes decisions need to be made very quickly and there is no time for different reconciliations. We also have to write this down because we're going to talk about how it's talking today. And taking this opportunity, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, you are. I raised my hand in the morning, you promised yesterday during the council to resolve the issue of the Glycinium boarding house when we were deciding on the question of the Artek vote, the Young Guard's issue of property. It is clear that the property issue, when it comes to more than 20 acres [20 ha] of land, plus the first lodge of Brezhnev and so forth, was built by the king, the very healthy cost of this issue, which today wants to be wasted on the benefit of a foreign state. So I don't understand why, since January-month, this question hasn't been asked, it doesn't go into the hall. I wanted to.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u41	Let me finish. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u42	I would like the public in my person and in the person of all the national MPs to be informed because we have been asking the question since January. This is the question, I say, which has become the main issue for those who have blown up the question of "Artec," because the property of the Dusi has been transferred there, and the ratio of "Glycinia" to "Artec" is up to 40 kilometers away. It's just so that we can break down the land more quickly, and it's the citizens of Ukraine that have to understand clearly. There are no judges, courts, more loyally, our names, so I'd like to ask you to include this issue as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Regarding the proposals made by Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, we simply did not make it to the previous Conciliation Council to consider this issue. I'm asking him to prepare -- and we'll look at the Conciliation Council on November 2nd, and then we'll figure out how to make a decision. Yes, one minute, Oleg Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u44	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. One minute, so it's literally thesis. The idea of the subject of the legislative initiative is perfectly correct and correct. The first reason is that when we talk about the butaphoricity of democracy in Ukraine -- and that's true -- and the weakness of democracy, it's rarely called one of the main reasons -- is the indevelopment of civil society institutions. Any real scientist can confirm that. This indevelopment of civil society institutions leads to a gap between what citizens want to realize, what they're initiating -- and they don't have a tool to implement their initiatives -- and power, local power, central power, and so on. That's why public councils are needed. It's not supposed to be a campaign, it's supposed to be a real job. But two moments. One of the speakers said that formalism shouldn't be here, so there must be real tools. And there's a big warning: a warning against politicizing, politicizing this system, not using it in election campaigns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. The committee proposes to adopt registration number 3654 on the basis of the draft law. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on public participation in the formulation and implementation of public policy on local issues]] [[Registration number 3654]] Please vote. [[11:02:30.]] For 358 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on Powers]] Registration number 4570. The reporter is Deputy Minister for Regional Development and Construction of Negoda Vjacheslav Andronović. Correspondent is the head of the committee's subcommittee on State and Local Self-Government Trader Mikola Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u46	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine has been developed with a view to resolving individual issues, both with regard to the organisation of the territorial system of local self-government and with regard to the powers of authorities and officials of local self-government. The first block of change relates to the question of voluntary unification of the territorial communities. It is known that, within the framework of existing legislation, the legislative field and the existing administrative and territorial system of Ukraine, it is virtually impossible to form self-sufficient territorial communities, in fact, without an effective mechanism to solve problems, at least at the stage of organizing the administrative system in complex communities or so-called mothers. The constitutional and legislative framework provides that voluntary integration of the territorial communities into and out of the rural community is followed by local referendums. In doing so, it should be noted that unification into the village or city community is not envisaged at all. First, this mechanism is too complicated because, for example, in a small village, it is more realistic to hold general assemblies, and secondly, the rights of residents of rural areas are unduly limited, and cities unite if it is convenient for them and the state to form a rural or urban community. [[village]] The bill proposes that the decision of the village council to unite the local community of the village with the local community of the neighboring village, the village, should be taken only on condition that the matter is previously approved by the decision of the general assembly of citizens living in the village. Another rule suggests that the decision of local government authorities to remove land outside the population is taken only by agreement with the appropriate rural or local council. [[village]] The following standard proposes that changes be made to the appointment of the heads of preschool general and extra-school community property institutions, in agreement with the appropriate rural, urban head. [[village]] Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u47	Thank you, Viachelav Andronovich. Please have a seat. A report from the committee, Mikola Fedorovich Trajduk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u48	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, honourable deputies! The Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government at its meeting on 24 June 2009 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The draft law proposes to amend articles 6, 26 and 42 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine in order to address individual issues of the organization of the local self-government system and to determine the powers of authorities and officials of local self-government. I will not repeat myself, the reporter has made it clear about the changes proposed by the law, I can assure you that the committee has considered and proposed very carefully, and recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, as discussed in the first reading, to be accepted as a basis. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u49	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss? Let's sign up, please. Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u50	Dear colleagues! The bill proposes to solve a number of problems, but unfortunately, it is written in such a way that it violates the rules of a valid Constitution and is unconstitutional. Now I'm going to look at some things. First. No doubt, once again, I need to address the problems that the deputy minister was talking about, but not in the way that it was written here. I'll remind you of the current standards. Today, a united community can be united only through a referendum. You're proposing a referendum to re-examine, that is, narrow down the rights of citizens and pass this decision on to the councils. The Constitutional Court and we'll tell you that you can't do that. And anti-constitutional laws can't be passed. Another problem. Without a doubt, all the inhabited areas of the Kyiv region after this law will want to join the city of Kyiv. And all the settlements in the Kyiv region or any district of the district center will decide to merge to the district center. And everyone will, as it were, feed only there from this center, of course. The only thing we need to support here is the issue of land relations. Earthly relations really need to be passed on to the outside. The head of the city or village, and this will be decided only by the sessions. But considering that there are anti-constitutional norms here, I propose to support the proposal to send a bill for further work. That's how we can't accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u51	Bondarenko Volodymyr Dmitrovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u52	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Reforms and Orders”. Dear friends, I'd like to point out that we need to determine which way we're going. If we want to fill local self-government primarily with the basic functions that these councils have been given by the Constitution: to manage land, finance and property, then we should go this way. [[These are the three whales that hold local self-government]] If not, continue to keep local councils running at local government administrations. So I would like to suggest that the process of unifying small villages and villages by one council should continue. For example, under Kiev is the Gurishtian Rural Council or the Buziov Rural Council, which unites the 5 villages, and well done. Because they now have a landowner, there are other frames. And when there was silrada in every village, there was a head and a secretary, and there was nothing there. Therefore, the process of unification is obviously necessary. How, then, can the heads of local children’s institutions, schools, be appointed if the village council and the community have no bearing on this? That's not right. So I would like to support the process of strengthening the functions of rural, rural and urban councils, including the budget code that we're talking about today, that's exactly what we're talking about. Therefore, I would like to encourage you to support this law by your respectful friends. And the fact that someone's going to join Kiev, and vice versa, as the country councils are a little bit larger and have their own functions, they're not going to be comfortable joining large cities, because they're not going to dominate them, they're just going to be strangled by deputies from Kiev, for example. So there's not going to be the process that my colleague just talked about. On the contrary, I will say that this will strengthen the village councils and their role in solving the basic problems of local communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u53	The discussion is over. I am voting on the first reading of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government. [[Registration number 4570]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:11:20]] For 148 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft Act amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine on the certification of rural, rural, urban head is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 4678]] Report to the Deputy Minister for Regional Development and Construction of Negoda Viacheslav Andronović, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u54	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The draft law is designed in connection with the need to standardize the arrangements for giving certificates to rural, rural, urban, and local heads and to determine the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to approve the model description and the status of the issued certificate. With a view to filling the gaps in legislation on certificates of rural, rural, urban heads, it is proposed to amend article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government of Ukraine, according to which, firstly, it is proposed that the handover by the head of the relevant electoral commission of the licence takes place after the acceptance of an oath by the newly elected village, village or city head. Secondly, since legislation does not regulate the requirements for the model description and the position of the village, village and city heads licence, it is proposed that the Cabinet of the Ministers of Ukraine be empowered to approve the above-mentioned model, description and position. The principle that a village, village, city head in the exercise of a licence applies without hindrance to public authorities and other public authorities other than those for which a special access regime has been established by law. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u55	Thank you. Sit down, Viachelav Andronovich. Mikola Fedorovich is the committee's co-report.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u56	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government at its meeting on September 2, 2009, considered a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Change to Article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[on the identification of rural, rural and urban heads]] Indeed, this is a gap in our legislation, so after discussion, the committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, when considered in the first reading, to be accepted as a basis. [[on identification of rural, rural, urban head]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u57	Is there a need to discuss? None. Is it? Please sign up for the discussion. Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u58	Please pass the word to Vladimir Yatsubi.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u59	Deputies! Dear representatives of local self - government! This is a vivid example of “decentralisation”, even the issuing of certificates. [[in cages]] We have district councils. Well, you see, it's all Ukraine going to the Cabinet of Ministers, starting with the silrada, to find out questions to get a certificate. Don't make people laugh! This is a function of district structures, and let them do it. We're definitely against it!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u60	Bondarenko Volodymyr Dmitrovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u61	Vladimir Bondarenko, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", the “Reforms and Orders” party. Sometime in the archives of the Supreme Council there is my bill, and Alexander Mikolayovich Tkachenko was in charge of the Supreme Council, in which I also proposed to approve a sign for the deputies of the rural, village councils. He must be distinct above all from the sign of a national MP. On one occasion, I saw a young man, apparently a member of a circuit board, in a totally unapproachable condition. I wouldn't want to be in his company, but he had a sign exactly like mine. That's why it was once in the Law on Local Self-Government, article 3, where it was written, what is the size of the sign of the rural MP, the city, the district council and the Supreme Council. So I would ask the authors of this law, maybe before the second reading, to change his name a little bit and take a position on the sign. It's about a license. Well, it's not about issuing certificates in Kiev. It's about developing the Cabinet of Ministers a model of such a certificate. And it's obviously supposed to be here that the Cabinet of Ministers is giving the order. There should be elements of the Heraldic and all that. And obviously, let's work on the second reading so that this edition can be done on the spot. There's no need to go to Kiev, there's no need for that. Therefore, the proposal for district councils could be supported, but simply rejecting the need to have the head of the village, village, and city heads a special certificate that would give him basic rights in the territory of his council to visit those institutions that were involved here would be very correct. Because many today have found themselves, especially among businessmen who feel that they have no bearing on local authority, they live by their laws, and they do not even allow those authorities to control them. So I'd like to support this law. But in the second reading, work on it along with a sign to remove the problems involved in obtaining a certificate.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u62	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u63	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I object to the whole government's approach, on behalf of the whole government, to question the issue of making a manipular change in certification. You know, this isn't serious at all. What about reviewing the whole law that's hard? And there's going to be a new edition. It's government! I'm paying attention to the minister of the Cabinet, to the heads of government, to the complexity of how documents come from the government. This little thing -- it's already, you know, got everybody here in this room! It is an entire hall and the whole state is observing these meager powers that they have now given birth to, and they have given birth in an innocuous manner. Because today 11,000 162 rural and rural councils are 11,000 162 for today! And today we're writing a bill like this: unhindered visiting government authorities and other government authorities. And now there's going to be a total of -- 11,000 162 -- in every room there is going to be a knock on the basis of what we're going to write. So obviously you have to limit it in some way and write it: in the area, in the village council, in the area where it's located and probably in the area, and put a dot there. But you can't do that in so great a way. I absolutely agree with the proposal that the preceding speakers were talking about. This too needs to be done. So the law is raw, first. It's different. I call on the government, I call on our committees to bring about the complexity of the changes that we are making in legislation. Let us respect ourselves, and let us respect the role of the legislative body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u64	One minute, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, on the one hand, we really need to support the wish of the drafters to settle, to bring this rule to order without question. Unfortunately, however, it was written in such a way that former speakers said that it was the opposite of regulating the process. That is why I propose not to support it today. But perhaps without even waiting for it from the Cabinet of Ministers, let the committee of profile amend the relevant laws on two points. What Bondarenko said must be a sign of a local council member because they produce those who want to and how they want to, and we have a legal form. And the second. To suggest that the form of the certificates be established by a decree of either the superior Supreme Council, or the local council, or the Supreme Council. Well, it's funny that the Cabinet of Ministers has an impact on local self-government that has nothing to do with it, because it's a completely different branch of government. So I propose that this bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u66	The discussion is over. I am voting on the first reading of the draft Law amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. [[Registration number 4678]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:21:30.]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft Law amending certain legislative acts concerning the activities of all the Ukrainian associations of local self-government is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 5056]] As reported by Negoda Viacheslav Andronović, deputy minister for regional development and construction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u67	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! Let me report another bill that I've been asked to introduce to you. The draft law is designed to regulate individual issues of the activities of the local self-government associations of all countries by amending the recently adopted Ukrainian Law on Associations of Local Self-Government Authorities and the Ukrainian Budget Code. First. The draft law proposes to lift the restrictions provided for in article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on Associations of Local Self-Government Authorities on the participation of the local council in only one Ukrainian association. The second change relates to the sources of formation and the legal regime of the property of the association. Thus, one of the sources of property formation of an association of local self - government authorities under a valid law is the introductory and membershipal contributions of its members, that is, the costs of local councils. In view of the high rate of rotation of local budgets, the duty of introductory and membership contributions, especially for rural councils, is not only burdensome but often impossible to pay. In order to promote public authorities, associations of local self - government authorities are proposed to provide financial support to all Ukrainian associations to carry out their statutory activities at the expense of the state budget. The following change is proposed to expand the list of sources of association property formation. Thus, for the financial support of the All - Ukrainian Associations, it is proposed to refer to the sources of the formation of the Association’s property: donations and donations of natural and legal persons, international technical assistance and funds, or property voluntarily transferred to its members. Finally, with a view to agreeing on the above amendments to the Associations Act, it is also proposed to make appropriate amendments to the Ukrainian Budget Code, namely, article 87, paragraph 13. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u68	Thank you. Have a seat, please. A report from the committee, Thryduk Mikola Fedorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u69	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished deputies, colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government considered at its meeting held on September 2, 2009, a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending certain legislative acts introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[on the activities of the local self-government associations of all countries]] I will not repeat the positions that have been there, I will only say that at the committee meeting and those present, and members of the committee have been told by you a few comments with which the committee has agreed, with most comments, and have decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a draft law on the basis of the first reading and, I would stress, to entrust the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government with preparing it for a second reading, taking into account the comments made and proposals made by subjects of the law of legislative initiative. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u70	Let's sign up for a discussion. Kravchenko Mikola Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u71	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. You know, this impression is that the government is planning to keep the All-Ukrainian Association of Local Government Authorities simply through the State Budget. Therefore, the faction, I am sure, will not vote on this issue, because it is a purely populist law that is currently being considered only because we are ahead of the election campaign. That's the thought I had when I looked at it. Associations that are established on a voluntary basis that bring together people who work on. In local self-government, they suddenly become the subject of close attention by the Cabinet of Ministers. It is clear that there is an option that could have been freely financed by these associations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u72	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u73	Please pass the word to Vladimir Grigorovich Yatsuba.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u74	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Dear Presidium! I'm embarrassed to be an opponent of the ministry, where I had the privilege of being a minister, but I can't keep my mouth shut either. When the designated laws were passed, many MPs were given the opportunity to choose freely from local self-government structures the right to choose which association, and many of them, by the way, had created conditions for self-election. What my home ministry is offering today is nothing but money to buy a certain direction to go. When they come, they'll be told what to do. It is therefore simply a violation of the rights of the communities in order to manage them for certain political purposes. Therefore, our faction will vote categorically against it because we advocate democratic principles for the existence of all associations, including local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u75	One minute. A faction that didn't sign up. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u76	Yuri Karmazin, “Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense”, Party of Protectors of the Motherland. Dear colleagues, it is obvious that such a bill is needed, but it has many questions. Why? It's about funding, it's about the budget, it's about what happens when this law goes into effect -- 1 January 2010, it's also about violating the requirements of part three of Article 27 of the Budget Code. Because when they influence the formation of the income or expenditure portion of the budgets, they have to be published by the 15th of August of the year that precedes the planned. This means that this law cannot enter before January 1, 2011. That's me starting over. As for what is written here, which receives state financial support, such a mandatory norm, it seems to me that there is a need for it to be written, "can be obtained". And that, in cases established by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u77	Bondarenko Volodymyr Dmitrovich, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u78	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, Party “Reforms and Orders”. I would like to point out that the hall was somehow divided. And there are factions that clearly don't take any government initiative. This is an ancient practice, especially during this pre-election period. So I am not surprised by the position that is illogical in terms of working with the heads of local councils. The point is that today there is a huge shortage of exchange of experience. There are huge deficits in joint legal support, there are huge deficits in emerging statistics. So there's a lot of problems that can't be solved by each individual council on its own, and this could be done by an association. So just throw it all away and get it all back to where the elections are going. Well, let's introduce this law from the 11th year, as proposed. But just rejecting it is ridiculous, because we don't help local councils, we just hurt them, we plant our legs, not our shoulders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u79	Question completed. I am voting on the first reading of the draft Law amending certain legislative acts concerning the activities of the local self-government bodies of the All-Ukrainian Associations. [[Registration number 5056]] Please vote. [[11:31:14]] For 139 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. A draft Law amending the Law on Heat Supply is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 408]] Reported to the Deputy Minister for Housing and Utilities Lototic Orestes Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u80	Dear National Deputies! Your attention is on the proposal for a draft Law amending the Heat Supply Act. The main purpose of this bill is to extend the Law on Heating by incorporating provisions that ensure the reconstruction, modernization and construction of facilities in the field of heat supply, as well as to create conditions for the effective functioning of municipal heating, the provision of services of appropriate quality and affordable prices. Some attention is paid in the bill to creating conditions to ensure the planned modernization, reconstruction, and construction of heating facilities. In particular, it is proposed to introduce terms such as “technological development programme” and “current accounts with a special cost-use regime for the modernisation of technological refuelling of thermal power plants”. It is also proposed that the law be supplemented by new articles on technical development programmes and investment programs, rules for their development, approval, financing and monitoring. Also, identify the authorities responsible and control the approval and approval of such programs and also monitor their implementation. It is also proposed to give a clear definition of the terms “central heating system”, “a system of autonomous heating” and “individual heating”. New requirements are being laid down for the design, construction, reconstruction, and modernization of heating facilities, as well as new standards for the review of tariffs in the direction of reductions in the case of purposeless use of those component tariffs that were envisaged for, inter alia, modernization, or technical.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u81	Complete, please, Oreste Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u82	In addition, it is clearly proposed to define the functions of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Housing and Public Administration. the local authorities of the National Commission for the Regulation of Heat Energy. [[on the regulation of heat supplies]] It is also suggested that the powers of government authorities be clarified on other issues in this field. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u83	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The committee's report is Sergey Mikhailovich Titenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u84	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I want to inform you about the bill proposed by the government that on June 17th of this year it was considered at our committee meeting and was not supported by any of our colleagues. I will name just a few of the main reasons for this decision. First of all, it is not clear why our colleagues from the Ministry decided to change the concept of “heat energy” from normal “hygacalories” to “heat energy in the form of steam and hot water”. A problem from our point of view is the proposal to establish a National Commission for Electricity Regulation, the distribution of funds from heat consumers, among operators. NCREs have not yet done so, and without a definition of at least a more detailed position it is impossible. Incomprehensible and unwarranted is the replacement of the existing notions of an "Autonomous Heating System" which exists for the definition of individual buildings on an "Autonomous Heating System as an indoor heating system". Also, from our point of view, it is not clear what the authors of the bill exclude from the basic law the notion of a “balancemaker”. This concept is one of the key to the heat supply of multi-story buildings, and it's like a revolution, but it's not justified. But since we realized that the bill was intended to introduce a legislative mechanism for the planned modernization of the construction of the facility and of municipal energy, a working group consisting of the National Deputies of Titenka, Pashinsky and Dubov, as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u85	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u86	Deputy Minister of Housing and Utilities. We analyzed the state of affairs. And then the working group prepared a new bill to modernize the construction of buildings in the area of heating. [[4765]] This bill was considered at a meeting of our committee and was proposed to you for consideration and acceptance as a basis. I would like to ask you to adopt, on the basis of a bill of the National Deputies recommended by the Committee, on the basis of and in furthering its second reading, to take into account the separate provisions of Bill 4008, which was reported by a representative of the Ministry. [[Titenko, Pashinsky and Dubov]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u87	Let's sign up for a discussion. Have a seat, please. Popov Alexander Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, we have discussed the situation in our special committee dealing with housing and utilities. We would like to support the proposal of the PEC-specific committee in order to jointly prepare a new version of the two bills, which would take into account all the important and interesting proposals proposed by both the Ministry and at the same time by the MPs. This option is totally acceptable, and we have the practice of working. I think we should agree with the committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u89	Serbian Yuri Alexiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, it's been a while, and we finally realized that without government regulation, we can't put order in the housing industry. Both the first and the second laws are designed to get us to control the funds that are allocated to us. Which should go for the modernization of our heat farm. There are flaws in both the first and the second laws. And I support my colleagues, who need to unite these two laws and adopt this law. [[We also have this experience under the Housing Code.]] The laws are necessary, we will support both laws as factions. But in order to prepare a quality law for second reading, it is necessary to unite them and develop them for the working group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u91	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u92	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. Honorable national MPs, both to the first law that has been reported and to the second MP, have numerous observations, various aspects of these observations. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority believes that both the first and the second bills need to be finalized, this is the conclusion of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration. There are also questions about the changes that are proposed in article 31, where both state housing and utility inspections can be fined, and so on. There's still a lot of conceptual issues. I think with great difficulty we can vote in favour of any of these laws, I will vote in favour of both of them, but to make a group, as the MPs have suggested and worked on them, because they are extremely raw and today they cannot be laid down as the basis for the transformations that need to be done in the state today. And we have to predict here how we can work with those private energy companies that do the heat supply, how we can interest them in how we can get them to use alternative sources of energy. For now, even if you buy and put a windmill in a village and offer to pass on energy, no one will accept anything, so there are still questions. But we need to adopt these laws and move forward and I'm going to vote in favour of both bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u93	Kravchenko Mikola Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u94	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. The Communist faction will not vote on either law, the draft law will return under the following circumstances. In addition to what has been said, I would like to draw your attention to why this bill is now being introduced. The answer is very simple: housing and utility tariffs are being raised worldwide today. And if you listened carefully to the rapporteur, even in that unconvincing statement, the idea was: “new tariff standards”. And that's the whole point of the bill. Everything else is said to be from the wicked to hide the basics, an increase in the standards of new tariffs. Where can we go now? I don't know if the deputies know, but to date, there's been a rise in water tariffs. For one cube, 10 bracelets. Think about it. For one cube, 10 bracelets. Where else can you go? And the second question. When it comes to the modernization plan, let's ask ourselves, what are we going to upgrade? To date, the boiler room is the property of the territorial community. The district heat station is renting this property. How is he going to conduct planned upgrades? So you either have to write a separate law, or you have to do it in a literate and not as hasty as they try to do it now. The faction would therefore not vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u95	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we had a draft of Law 4008. During the discussion, however, two bills were discussed immediately, including Bill 4765. I'm going to ask you to turn on Titek Sergey Mikhailovich's microphone. Sergey Mihailovich, the question to you is: Is it still necessary to discuss Bill 4765 separately, or can we move on to a decision?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u96	We can move on to making a decision. I want to emphasize that we are. a working group has already been created. She worked with the Ministry for two months and concluded that 4765 was a better law than 4008. What he needs is further work, I agree, and I said in my speech that we'll take into account the observations and our colleagues, and some of the provisions of the 4008. So I would like to support the committee's decision to vote in 4765, and we'll take 408 into account the best proposals in the next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u97	Thank you, Sergey Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, there will be no objection that we do not start any more separate discussions on Bill 4765, because all those who participated in the discussion in any way would not object to the rules of both laws? Please, Sergei. Bondarenko Volodymir Dmitrovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u98	Dear friends, I would like to draw attention to the need for a second reading in both bills. Well, for example, in Kiev today, it is thought that one gigacalorie plays 18 cubic meters of water, and the Institute of Housing and Utilities says 22.5. There's a direct theft of 25 percent. Then there's a problem with a document called the Heat Network Graph. If we don't set the legislation for it to exist, there's still going to be a discrepancy between that heat supply schedule when the ambient air temperature changes. This is a legal document that will give the right to be tried for underdevelopment. And there are still many positions related to the distribution of the actual service for electricity, for heat, there are various profitabilitys. And today this is done at the expense of gas, which goes at different prices for the population, for other objects. So I would ask for a second reading to allow all of these positions into this law, it's going to get very rich by itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u99	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Serbin Yuri Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u100	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, so as not to bring. in politics on a purely professional issue we have a precedent when we voted under the Housing Code that both bills were accepted as a basis and entrusted the committee to work out and put together a joint draft for the second reading. So I'm making this proposal and let's vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u101	The discussion is over. I put to the vote the draft Law amending the Law on Warm Supply of Ukraine's First Reading Approval. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:47:45]] For 169 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. I am voting on the draft Law amending the Law on Warm Supply in Ukraine. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:48:15.]] For 326 Decision taken. The bill was adopted in the first reading. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the establishment of housing and utility tariffs]] Registration number 3434. According to Mikhailo Alexandrovich Zyjenov, Deputy Minister of Economics.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u102	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! The development of this draft law was necessary to address the problems of the damage to housing and utilities businesses associated with the increase in energy prices and the increase in the minimum wage and the effect of cost-effective tariffs on their services, and to contribute to the financial stability of these enterprises. The law was drafted at the request of many enterprises of the housing and utility system. It foresees a reduction in the consumer's message to the contractor on the cost of housing services from 30 days to 10 days, and it is also envisaged that acts of local self-government bodies that change tariffs on residential services in connection with the rise in energy prices and minimum wage levels to those that are not covered by the Ukrainian Act on the Principles of National Regulatory Policy in the Field of Economic Activities. Thus, the tariff review procedure will be reduced by 50 days at the appropriate time of the damage to the housing and utility business system. The adoption of the law will provide an opportunity to improve the quality of the work on housing and utility tariffs, including the reduction of the tariff adjustment procedure, which, if the price of natural gas and the minimum wage level rises, will help to avoid significant losses in housing and utilities. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u103	Thank you, Mikhailo Alexanderovich. Natalia Juryovna Královska, co-reported by the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u104	Hello, respectable colleagues! We all know how pressing the issue today in our country is, the issue of housing and utility tariffs, because unfortunately, the rate of tariff growth in individual territories is much higher than the rate of average wage growth. And it is clear that the more this law and the tariff-setting mechanism will be regulated, the more transparent the tariff-setting system will be. And unfortunately, today the cost of services provided by housing and utilities is far from in line with the quality of the services provided. The Industrial Regulatory Policy and Enterprise Committee considered the bill at its meeting on 2 September. And the committee members have clearly defined that a sufficiently weak argument is the proposal of those legislative initiatives that we have heard from the Ministry of the Economy. Regrettably, we do not believe that today is a reasonable reduction in the time-limits for the issuance of tariffs from 30 days to 10 days. And we also believe that it is unreasonable today to remove the tariff mechanism from the scope of the Act on the Fundamentals of Public Regulatory Policy in the Field of Economic Activity, because this will not improve the quality of tariffs, and this will be even more machining within the system of tariff formation at the level of local self-government. We therefore believe that this bill needs to be finalized in this direction. In general, the members of the Committee decided to submit a bill to the Supreme Council for consideration, to propose that it be adopted as a basis, but that it should be systematically developed for second reading and that the rules of the law should not be deleted. Proposals for a law that do not correspond to reality. Thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u105	Thank you, Natalia Yuriovna. Let's sign up for a discussion. Popov Alexander Pavlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, I want to remind you why tariffs are rising. The tariffs are rising because the price of gas is rising, the price of electricity is increasing. 60-80 per cent of housing and utility tariffs. It seems to me that, by offering such an option, the Government intends to give a “gift” to Ukrainians because we know that there are requirements of the International Monetary Fund to increase housing and utility tariffs, to return gas prices quarterly, starting on 1 January and so on. [[& Tiles]] This will be a provocation for tariffs to rise very strongly and greatly. It seems to me that it is of principle important and it would be more public if the price of natural gas, the electricity for residential and utility enterprises, were determined once a year before the budget for the following year. All risks would then be borne by the State if it were to increase energy prices. And so again, we are hostage-taking the mayors of the cities, making the people of Ukraine hostage. This bill is not intended to address the problems of the country's population. I don't think we can vote for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u107	Bodnar Olga Borisovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u108	Please pass the word to Bondarenko Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u109	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Dear friends, this law is necessary. But in the form that he's given, he definitely needs, well, radical processing. Let me draw your attention. When setting tariffs, it is primarily necessary to determine the value of this service. It includes energy, wages, the cost of operating the network there and all that. But today, for example in Kiev, it's all taken from the ceiling, no self-value element is deciphered: how much is it spent and what is its value. But we do know that when I asked for it, I received an answer that 15 to 18 percent of the energy produced, the water spills on the road or is lost on the way to the consumer. It's all on tariff. That's 18 percent of the baseless increase in tariffs. Then, I've already mentioned that today there's a discrepancy between the treatment of gigacalorie and the cubic metre of heated water. Some say that gigacalorie heats 22.5 cubic metres of water, while in Kiev it is believed that 18. Once 18 copies are consumed, it's how they take the whole gigacalorie. This is where 25 percent of the fare is stolen. So we see 40 percent of the people that have been stolen, and that's a warning. It is not possible to include tariffs that people should pay. You can't include again high-pitched, imaginary numbers that don't match reality. And I would like to point out that today we need to talk more about energy-saving technologies, we need to talk about pre-insulated pipes, we need to talk about computerization. For example, 2,000 counters in Kiev are two years old, no one puts them on, because it is uncompromising to put the comms on the wrong side, because at the same time it is only possible to take them on the counter. So let's finish this law by radically reshaping it for the benefit of people and the energy itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u110	The discussion is over. One minute, Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich. A faction that wasn't recorded.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, I'm glad you know that even the head of the committee of profile has finally realized that, indeed, such, sorry, stupidity can't be supported. First of all, I'm calling your attention to one thing. The bill was introduced in 2008. Right, then we were waving the scales to the left and right. What does this bill propose? The bill suggests that the Cabinet of Ministers wash their hands with prices and tariffs so that local authorities are responsible for everything that is done in the community. Is that right? Absolutely not. And I'm 100 percent in solidarity with my colleague Popov, who's talking about putting a dot here, and not breaking any more spears. Indeed, the State Budget Act sets these tariffs for each year and lets the State and people know that they are to be expected this year or another year. Because every year the renter wakes up and thinks they're going to come up with something that cosmonauts and other people can think of. Therefore, this bill cannot be supported in any way.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the approval of the first reading on the basis of the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian laws on housing and utility tariffs. Registration number 3434. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:58:23]] For-138 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. The factions? Please. Region Party – 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 131, Our Ukraine-People's Self-Defense – 7, Communists – 0, Litvina Block – 0, non-fractional – 0. Dear colleagues, we have a recess of up to 12 hours 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u113	Dear colleagues! We continue our morning plenary session. Please take your seats. In order of handling the proposal, please Kravchenko Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u114	Maybe we'll just sign up for the "Rose" right now to focus, prepare, and then we'll start with the story.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u115	Dear colleagues! I'm sorry, our 30 minutes of work, and in 30 minutes we'll sign up for the "Variance" as it should be, and we'll continue our work. Dear colleagues! We considered draft Law 4758 first thing in the morning. During his consideration, we had one argument when we amended this law before voting in general. I will now ask Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, who made this amendment, to clarify its contents and reasoning. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u116	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich! I want to go first. Alexander Volodymyrovich, first of all, I want to say that I'm not in favour of my colleague Kravchenk's ideas. And for the sake of the fact that, in fact, we don't have any more doubts, so I would like to take into account in the transcript that what we've increased by the code 0111010 is that the source of this expenditure is to determine the increase in the revenue of the State budget from the excise collection of goods produced in Ukraine, taking into account the increase in excise duty rates on tobacco produced yesterday by the 4707 bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u117	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u118	Alexander Volodymyrovich, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u119	Dear colleagues! I can see that we need to exchange thoughts about things.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u120	Alexander Volodymyrovich, please give a word on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u121	about the work we're doing today. Please register with the order of business, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u122	Alexander Volodymyrovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u123	Sergey Vladislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u124	Please hand over the can.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u125	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! We cannot support this amendment. I want the voters to know what this is about. They're called codes, numbers. For people, it's actually a dark forest. And in fact, it's a very simple thing -- it's about increasing spending on the Supreme Council. And to increase these costs is going to be based on the increase in excise duties on tobacco. Yesterday we asked our colleagues to vote in favour of this increase in order to channel these funds to eliminate the effects of the flood, to the Ministry of Defense of the Program, to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. You didn't vote for it, we voted without you. And today you're dividing this money and directing it to the Supreme Council. It's wrong, we shouldn't vote for it and we won't! And we turn to everyone: do not support this amendment! And it's wrong at all, we've already voted this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u126	Gordijenko Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u127	I ask you to pass the word to Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u128	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I, in fact, had a much higher opinion on the global level of the Supreme Council, for many. We voted almost unanimously, 396 people's deputies, on a bill amending the 2009 State Budget Act, including the proposal I said. The only thing I read again is because they say it's not in the transcript, it's not in the transcript, it's in the transcript, it's in my speech with this proposal. There's no need to vote here. It's just a complement, an addition to the transcript of the performance by the people's deputy Martinyuk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u129	Karpuk Vladimir Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u130	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” I think that the initiators of the changes that were included in Law 4765 today did not vote in favour of the increase in excise duties on tobacco products and did not support other important positions for the state. Even though the towers said that, in fact, there are a lot of points that would be worth voting for. So once again with these methods of work, once the law has been passed, re-adjusting any changes to supplementation is another indication that we are in a hurry to accept things, and then we want to coordinate them in a case that is convenient to certain political forces. We will not support such a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u131	Sushenko Alexander Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u132	Oleg Valeriovich Lazko, I'm asking you to pass.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u133	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear Adam Ivanovich! You are one of the best experts in this Hall of Rules to give you what you deserve. But in this case, you're not exactly saying that. Since it is a source from which extra money should be spent to support the Supreme Council, it must be voted upon by the Supreme Council. It's no one else who can identify this source -- not the chairman at the meeting, and so on. Only the Supreme Council. This is about changes to the State Budget Act. Therefore, if there is such a proposal, the vote is to be taken, and only after it is supported, then it must be included in the law. Otherwise we're just not going to let this law out of the Supreme Council in that way. It cannot be executed unless the sources are indicated and the Supreme Council has voted for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u134	The conversation is over. A draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the activities of utilities operators is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 3437]] Reported to the Deputy Minister for Housing and Utilities Lototic Orestes Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, you have a proposal for a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws. [[on the activities of utilities operators]] In particular, amendments are being made to the Laws on the licensing of certain types of farming, on heating and on drinking water, and on drinking water. The purpose of the bill is to clarify the activities and powers of the licensing authorities in the field of production, transportation, thermal energy supply, centralized water supply and water management as a mechanism for national regulation of the economic activities of natural monopolies, as well as to strengthen the monitoring of licensing conditions by natural monopolies, such as the introduction of such a management function as a temporary administration. The bill is designed to create legislative conditions for the effective functioning of operators in the field of heating and central water supply and water supply, to provide consumers with adequate services in the necessary quantities of quality and affordable prices. The bill also foresees that the central authority of the executive branch in the field of heat supply licenses activities for the production of thermal energy in the ranges set by licensing conditions. The Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local government administrations, and the National Commission on Electricity Control of Ukraine are other governing bodies in the field of heat supply. In addition, it is envisaged to make changes, as I said, in the two Heat and Drinking Water Laws and Drinking Waters Acts, in the part of establishing competent authorities' powers to control licensing activities. There are also mechanisms for the appointment of a temporary administration, its rights, and its duties, and its terms and conditions. The adoption of this bill will facilitate the application of effective forms of government regulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u136	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u137	Thank you. I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u138	Please sit down. A report from the committee, please, Natalia Juryovna Kraljevska.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u139	Dear colleagues! The heating season is becoming an event even when there is no crisis in the country and in the world. In the current circumstances, it will not be easy, of course, but much more difficult. And we can be sure that any disturbance, including the problems of legislation, will cost our citizens dearly. In order to improve the licensing of central water and water supply, draft Law 3437 was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers. The bill proposes to amend Ukrainian laws on licensing certain economic activities, on drinking water and water supply and on heating. The management of relations in the areas listed is, of course, specific. And it is that today, heat services, centralized water supply, provide natural monopolies. The user cannot easily and simply switch to another provider of the goods. Unfortunately, the prices of natural monopolies today are far from consistent with that quality of services. And unfortunately, we do not have an open, normal, competitive market today. And the public services market is of great social importance because it covers all the population of the country. And its services should be available to every citizen. And today someone can't be allowed to freeze or run out of water just because the monopolies have come to the head to blow the price or simply not prepare the entire technological cycle in time. At the same time, members of the committee considered the bill. And we are well aware that today the powers of the supervisory authorities, and today, according to the bill, are determined by the mechanism for the appointment of the interim administration, which sets out the rights and obligations and conditions for the suspension of the temporary administration, as prescribed in the bill. The implementation of Bill 3437 does not require additional State action.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u140	Natalia Juryovna, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u141	Yeah. However, the procedure for licensing the activities of operators in the area of central water and water supply is not specified in the project. Also, according to fellow MPs, the issue of the temporary administration requires more detailed regulation to prevent all possible abuses in the appointment of the interim administration. Particular attention should be paid to the responsibility of the interim administration for the results of the activities. Qualification requirements should also be introduced for persons appointed by temporary administrations. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office therefore proposes to adopt the bill as a basis for the comments and proposals that I have just said and those that are the conclusions of the Scientific and Expert Office. The Committee on Industrial, Regulatory Policy and Enterprise considers that issues of central water and water supply have a significant and high social role and social significance. And we believe that the State should have an effective mechanism to regulate such sensitive areas, including the legislative regulation of the licensing mechanism. We propose to adopt this bill as a basis, but in more detail to complete it for second reading, because I understand now the criticism of those people's deputies, who will be expressed and may agree to a part of that criticism, because in fact many of the provisions of this bill have not been resolved and we have asked the Ministry of Housing and Communion to finalize the bill. We hope that we will be able to develop it for second reading professionally. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u142	From the Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex, the report by Titenko Sergey Mihajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u143	The Committee on Fuel-Energy Issues considered the bill and unanimously suggested rejecting it. When it comes to social, economic or any other meaning of heating or water supply, first of all, we have to start with creating conditions for efficient work, which unfortunately is not available now, and then talk about how a two-part speech was given by the ministry's representative so shyly, as well as the introduction of temporary administrations. Unfortunately, there are a lot of control issues today, but if the reasons for the introduction of temporary administrations are to destabilize the financial situation of enterprises that have no legislative definition of these terms, any clear criteria and indicators, it is not clear how this temporary administration can be introduced. It is also unclear that this is “a premeditation of technological catastrophes” when we have more than 70 per cent of the share of the core funds in these enterprises. There they are already created and temporary administrations should probably be working in accordance with this law. It's not clear how the Ministry of Housing and Utilities can deal with the issue of monopoly abuse instead of the Antimonopoly Committee and so on and so forth. I fully agree with the previous committee, where Mrs. Royal spoke, on the complete absence of the purpose of implementing the responsibility of temporary administrations. But what I want to point out is that these enterprises, or water or heat utilities, are 90 percent of the population in our country, are state-owned enterprises. And in this case, if such a bill is adopted, it's the basis of raids and total destabilisation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u144	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u145	The committee is asking our colleagues, members of parliament, to reject the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u146	Is there a need to discuss? Please sign up for the discussion. Serbian Yuri Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, what can be said about this bill? The idea in the bill is not bad. And, really, I'll do it again. Your previous statement under the Heat Act, you need state regulation at this stage if you want to get the LHC out of a breakthrough. But aside from the idea, unfortunately, there is nothing in this bill. And he needs serious work. It could be taken as a basis. It is only one request that the Supreme Council be given a mandate, although it is protocol for this work, as one of the main committees, to take part in our committee, because housing and utilities without these issues, which we will say are declared in this law, including licensing of this activity, cannot be done professionally if our committee does not participate. It can be taken as a basis, but work should be done with great seriousness.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u148	Andrey Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, what we are proposing today is a complete misunderstanding by the Cabinet of Ministers of the ongoing processes on the ground. What competitive environment can we talk about in water supply if we have a floor of Central Ukraine sitting without water? The question arises: “Is this a raid scheme for interference with local councils? Is this an attempt to replace money with an effort to send commissioners with unclear powers and functions?” Today's government has no monopolies balance, there are no finnplans in either “Neftegas” or “Energoatom” to date. You show the energy balance by the end of the year, think you'll have a month ahead. If this is an approach to the implementation of anti-crisis measures, this is evidence of a complete misunderstanding by the Cabinet of Ministers of the existing tasks.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u150	Litwin Yuri Alexiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u151	I'd like to give Gerasimczuk Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u152	Gerasimchuk Volodimir Volodymyrovic, "Block of Lithuania". The ‘Lithuania Block’ will not vote in favour of the bill. First of all, it's very controversial, especially in the creation and functioning of temporary administrations. We've studied this issue, we've been approached by directors of utilities, and the evaluation of this bill is very negative. So we're proposing to withdraw this bill and postpone it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u153	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u154	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! The bill is not as simple as it seems. Why Unforgivable? The situation in the country with both heat and water is extremely difficult, and what is said today is that 90 percent of it is in municipal property, state property, not all. The water supply of Odessa in the hands of a private company, if you don't know, many other cities are also in the hands of many private companies. Are there any plans? Not implemented. They're not! So we don't just have to reject the idea that's set up here, with temporary administrations, because if we were to talk about what banks did, they also have the right to have this idea. But what's extremely crude about this idea is that the reason for the introduction of temporary administration is, let's say, not to approve and fail to implement the specified time limits of technical long-term development programs. And where are we running the programs? Nowhere. What, do we have the heat bill? No, not foresight. What, do we want to continue to think that the drinking water that is given to the people of Ukraine today is normal water? 60 percent not. It is not subject at all to the existing standards that exist today in the state. These standards are out of date. The Ministry of Health sits and does nothing to put them in order. And you and I don't think how to save this drinking water today, how to separate it from the technical water, and the water that we pay for as the drink that we're being sold as a drink is basically pouring into the toilet. What have we done? What programs? None. So given that I've studied this bill carefully, all the comments, I see the pros and cons of it, I agree with Natalia Royal's suggestion that we should take it up on the first reading, but for a very long time think about it and work on it, and the government has to force us to eat normal water because it's a guarantee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u155	Please, a faction that has not been recorded. People's deputy of Kilinkarov. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u156	Dear Alexander Vladimirovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I think that everyone sitting in this room in front of another heating season has the opportunity to communicate with leaders, including utilities, and to see what the situation really is today. All utilities, including private enterprises, so-called investors, are actually working on credit money in the Ukrainian market. This, in turn, leads to higher prices and tariffs for utilities. If licensing is introduced today in accordance with the proposed law, that is, the additional costs for these enterprises, this will certainly be on the shoulders of again - who? – consumers. So today, in fact, we will force our own hands to vote in favour of this draft law, so to speak, to further increase prices and tariffs. In terms of what needs to be done today, there must be a State-wide targeted programme for housing and utility reform, and first and foremost there must be a struggle.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u157	Thank you. The discussion is over. I am voting on the first reading of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the activities of utilities operators]] [[Registration number 3437]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:53:58]] For-136 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the subjectivity of social pay-related matters]] [[Registration number 5010]] According to Philipenko Volodymyr Pilipovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u158	Thank you. Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! For your consideration, it is proposed to amend some Ukrainian legislation on the subjectivity of social payments.) [[Registration number 5010]] The bill provides for amendments to the Civil Procedure Code and the Code of Administrative Justice, which propose to deal with and resolve cases of social benefits to be referred to the jurisdiction of the general courts. The need to adopt such changes is due to a number of problems, such as the adoption of such changes in the first place in the Courts of Appeal, which in the absence of a single, well-formed case of appeals by administrative courts on social pay, lack of experience in dealing with such cases and a sharp increase in the number of recent cases, must be postponed to one year, resulting in violations of citizens' rights to review during a reasonable period. On June 1, 2009, there were more than 78,000 pending cases in the Ukraine’s administrative appeals courts alone, including social payments for appeals. For today, I want to say that this is almost 100,000 cases. In view of the fact that the total number of courts in the seven administrative appeals courts, whose territorial jurisdiction extends to several areas, is only 143 judges, it can be concluded that the realization of the right of citizens to be heard within a reasonable period is virtually impossible. In addition, one guarantee of the right of citizens to receive judicial protection is the principle of access to justice, which includes this principle and the territorial proximity of the court to the individual. The adoption of the proposed amendments in the bill will allow for a more comprehensive implementation of the principle of access to justice, since the territorial distance of the court of appeal will be limited to the area centre by the place of residence of the person. Therefore, the adoption of the proposed bill will enable you to resolve disputes about social benefits quickly and qualitatively. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u159	Thank you. Please report from the committee, Andry Volodymyrovich Portnov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u160	Thank you. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! I would like to say in my own words why this bill has an urgent need. This bill will allow an ordinary citizen to have real access to justice. Today, people who, in fact, are in disputes with persons in authority in the field of calculation, assignment, recalculation, execution, granting, receiving pensions, social benefits to disabled citizens, payments for compulsory public social insurance and other social benefits, allowances, social services, assistance, protection of benefits, these categories of citizens, in fact, receive a decision of a court that takes effect after 10 months, 12 months, i.e. they have no access to justice at all. This involves, above all, the workload in appeals courts, where, as the coauthors have already said, more than 100,000 cases in Kiev alone. This means that a citizen may not complain at all because he does not receive a court decision. And I want to tell you that at the first instance, the courts that deal with these cases are local, common courts. Therefore, it would be logical for these cases to be dealt with in the single hierarchy by the Courts of Appeal, not by administrative courts. The Committee on Justice has virtually unanimously decided to recommend this bill for adoption by Parliament as a whole. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u161	Thank you. Would you please sit down and discuss it? Yes. Please log in. Filipenko Vladimir Pilipovich, there's something we haven't been able to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u162	Give me the word Bodnar Olga Borisovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u163	Olga Borisovna Bodnar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u164	Olga Bodnar, Yulia Timoshenko. I am grateful to the authors for paying attention to such a serious problem that exists today. Yes, indeed, the courts are overwhelmed by these cases and are talking about that people can't get years to deal with their cases, that's very timely, and because the courts are just not doing it and not enough, their distance from citizens, territorial distance, because they're much less than the courts that deal with civil matters. This is also the weight that allows me to say that this bill is important, timely, relevant, it needs to be supported, I think everyone will just win from it. Remember, we used to do this with the Supreme Court when the Supreme Court was challenged by cases and had not been able to consider for years, and then the Supreme Council made the appropriate decision. In order for the administrative courts not to have such a collapse now, which will soon be, really, I think we need to support this bill as a whole. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u165	Koleschenko Vadim Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u166	Please pass the word to Chechev Mikhail Vasilevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u167	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, respectable Alexander Vladimirović! There was criticism in the Hall that the Party of the Regions was allegedly refusing to vote in favour of government bills and others. That's totally not true. We have never looked or looked at the authorship of the law. We look at the essence and content. And now, indeed, the best lawyers from different factions, different political forces, even opponents, have prepared a brilliant bill for the evil of the day, which widens the bottlenecks in the judiciary and facilitates citizens'access to judicial decisions. I therefore propose to support such a legislative initiative. Once again, a very timely bill, thanking the lawyers, the best lawyers, I repeat, from various political forces. I want to name their names: Alexander Lavrinović, Portnov and Filipenko. And I suggest that we vote on it both in first reading and in general, yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u169	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u170	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Of course, the situation has come to an end. But when we move these cases to other courts, to the courts of general jurisdiction, the situation will not improve much with access to human justice, and it will not improve with the fact that you and I do not foresee funding for this year and we do not foresee funding for the next year at the right level and, more importantly, we allow the transfer, the disbursing of public funds. In particular, everyone at the Justice Committee meeting where I work with the authors of this bill is asked when people are being transferred to Kiev. We ask the leaders of the judicial branch: “Do you realize how much it costs to transfer one person to Kiev? ” That's what I've calculated on the average, it costs us to move a judge to a higher or a higher judge to a higher-ranking, higher-governance, or a Supreme Court to one million grevens. And you and I here, we're assigning judges, and we're not going to think that right now, minus a million dollars to our people. So I would like to think, after voting on this bill right now, that we could vote on it in general, that the other approach should be to finance the judicial system. We have to make a reckoning for a justice judge. It's 20 times different today, in the District Court and in the Constitutional Court, 15 times, in the Supreme Court, 10 times, in the Supreme Court. Is that normal? I'm going to the government and to all the committees, and we're not going to get out of the situation that we're now saying that 100 things are just sitting here. We've been wanting to ask this question for many years, especially me. But apparently it did not reach people, evidently convenient to hold justice in such a state, then they would take the money or carnage. That's why I urge you to adopt the law. But change.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u171	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u172	Dear colleagues! Undoubtedly, we need to support the initiative of drafters who want to address one of the most painful issues that exist in society. The fact that hundreds of thousands of cases of those or others have been overturned by our courts is, unfortunately, too true. But when I went to this rostrum, I thought to myself, ‘ What is going on like this, and why is this? Just recently, we had only two courts, and they were dealing with practically everything. There was a general court and a commercial court. Now we've made a number of courts with you that I'm sure in the session room, the vast majority of the deputies can't count what the courts are doing right now. They're tens of times more now with different names and tongues that you'll break, and they'll have even more to do with them. And really, maybe we won't solve one problem, although I'm backing up the idea of good, we need to support it if we hand it over to the general courts. What, there's no work in the general courts? If the general courts were to proceed and the administrative courts were overloaded, no doubt work, because you can also consider it. So here, indeed, right colleagues who say that the point is not only to whom and where to pass it on, but the problem is how to finance it and how to ensure that the courts work in a timely and objective manner. So given this kind of reasoning, I think let's try it, let's do an experiment, pass it on to each other. But believe me, after a while we'll be looking for another way out, because the courts of general jurisdiction with these hundreds of thousands of cases won't work either.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u173	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! I would also like to say a few words as co-author of this project, that we have, in theory, properly approved the decision in the creation of administrative courts and the definition of subordinates. But sometimes theoretical purity conflicts with life’s realities. And we, by adopting these decisions, have made problems for Ukrainian citizens and have put aside the possibility of accusing them of the most painful decisions on social pay issues. We have to take a simple step and bring these issues closer to people, because there's a huge difference between the network of local courts of general jurisdiction and the network of administrative courts, they're just immeasurable numbers. So I'm also asking you to support the decision of the profiling committee and to adopt this bill as a whole. Since no one has objected, I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the subjectivity of social pay matters as a whole. [[Registration number 5010]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:06:56]] For 348 Decision adopted, law approved. Dear colleagues! 13 o'clock 7 minutes -- we're going to sign up for the Razne. Before we begin our speeches in the “Variable” colleagues, I will give you the information that today, October 23rd, an interfractional parliamentary group “For the spirituality, morality and health of Ukraine” was formed in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, composed of 67 national deputies from Ukraine of all 5 factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Such a parliamentary group was set up to prepare and implement legislative initiatives aimed at preventing the spread of negative phenomena in Ukrainian society. Please, Nayden's Andrew Mikhailovich. Please. Kravchenko Mikola Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u174	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! On 15 September 2009, the Donetsk Administrative Court of Appeal granted the order of the First Secretary of the Kirov Mining Company of Ukraine Kulish Olga Nikolayevna, acting in favour of the territorial community. The Court found that the commission of the Kirov city of Kirovska Donetsk was unlawful in relation to the setting of heat tariffs of 8.42 bracelets in August 2008 against 5.26. It would seem that justice has triumphed, and in the end, a point has been set. However, the representative of the Donetsk Regional Public Administration was involved, who reported that a lawsuit was being prepared to delay the cassation complaint and eventually, through the Supreme Administrative Court, to obtain the indictment. The Head of the Board of Commerce, Logwinenko, agreed even before recommending that the Kirov City Head Mandrus make a counterclaim to the Kirov Mountain Communist Party of Ukraine. We're all grown up to that level. However, officials headed by the Kirov City Head, as well as the Donetéplocommunergo, have demonstrated their complete illiteracy and incompetence and have attempted to transfer responsibility for their miscalculations and the lawlessness they create to the territorial community. In doing so, there are baseless accusations against the city's communists, and there is widespread information that the city will be without heat during the heating season for communists. To date, no boilers are included. This is what the head of “Donetstéplocommunergo” wrote about in the local newspaper. Starting tomorrow, we start action, regional protest, starting with the city of Kirovska. We're going to demand: First. In each city, an analysis of the tariffs established. Second. We bring the district to the Prosecutor's Office and then we will ask the Attorney-General to criminalize Director Donecktepleenergo for the illegal withdrawal of money from the population. And we will finish the regional action with the participation of the territorial communities of the area in Donetsk. I want to speak to the voters separately. Dear comrades, you have to understand, this cynicism of power, if, to this day, even before the elections, they are afraid to turn off their boilers during the heating period, that says a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u175	Paul Mikhailovich Movchan instead of the Serbian deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u176	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! Two days ago, we failed to repel the attack, the next attack on Ukrainian culture, as once again precedents, which indicate that the group of people who now owned most of their property in Kiev, and the group of people who, on behalf of many of the landlords in Kiev, are trespassing at the national museums. It's a memorial at the museum. Recently, on the committee, we discussed the security of the museum of Paul Grigorovich Tichini. Why has the existing museum been threatened for 30 years? Because someone liked this apartment, this museum memorial apartment, which already has an important age and 270,000 exhibits. It is done in a simple way, as it did with the museum of John Kovaleridze. They're changing the director of the museum, and there was a famous film director, a winner of many Sinko prizes. He was replaced by a man of the city, a man of the Chernobyl team. A few months later, he appeared in the courtyard of a restaurant. Well, is that supposed to be?Oh, my God! If they're trying to do the same thing today with a whole bunch of museums in Kiev, I'd like us to understand that we're not going to be able to look at how they're going to destroy all the infrastructure, all the cultural gains that were already threatened during this period, but the efforts of the enthusiasts, who at their own expense are keeping even the branches in Montenegro, in Kharkishte. I mean, the coworkers of the museum of Paul Grigorovich Tikini, and especially Tetjana Viktorovna Sosnańska, with whom they are doing a literal physical execution today, trying to remove her from office first, not letting her go on vacation, in fact, it's not just the Culture Department, but it's the deputy, one of the deputies of Cherniwiecki, who is forced to write an application to then put his person away, and quietly clean up this property. But this is a crime against the nation! And I would like to make my speech as a parliamentary appeal to warn everyone else of similar actions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u177	Parly Andry Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u178	Paribay Andrey, “For Ukraine! ” The parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” urges the parliament and government of Ukraine to take urgent measures to ensure the country's security. Because of the actions of the government and the Supreme Council this year, Ukraine is left with not only the Minister of Defence and the Chief of Genstabo but also without the proper provision of the army. I want to remind the electoral promises of those people who are going to the Presidents today, and I want to remind you how Julia Timoshenko, going to the elections, guaranteed to the electorate that she would be launching a contractual army in Ukraine for a few months, instead, today she is the head of the government, in fact, leading to the destruction of the Ukrainian army, and that she will be played by the Party of Regions, which together in this room, by one vote, by the Minister of Defense, in the same way for many months, without a leader, without a leader. And when you read that budget that's scheduled for next year, you can just get scared -- it's a budget for the destruction of the Ukrainian army. Budgets are not just enough to maintain parts and units, let alone combat training or arms purchases. Under conditions where open threats from aggressive neighbors are being heard at Ukraine’s address, the policies of an unblemished army are not simply irresponsible, it is a policy of encouraging potential aggressors. We are witnessing how today, on these days, the highest legislative body of the Russian Federation adopts bills that envision the involvement of Russian troops outside Russia in the event of an attack on Russian citizens or Russian military personnel who are abroad. There is no secret that the most Russian troops abroad are actually in Ukraine. We are witnessing the fact that every week in Crimea there are provocations against Ukraine, illegal Ukrainian lighthouses, in fact part of Ukrainian territory is occupied by the Russian Black Sea fleet. And the constant provocations that are echoing, coming from the Russian Black Sea fleet, at any moment, could lead to Russia taking the same aggressive action against Ukraine as it did a year ago against Georgia. And that's why today, in fact, the politics of the Ukrainian government and of the entire Supreme Council should be focused on that. In order to ensure the security of the Ukrainian army, to give the maximum amount of funding so that the Ukrainian army can be ready to carry out any tasks. And that's why I'm calling on today and the deputies in this room to say that we're all Ukrainians, Ukrainians, and we're all bound to protect Ukrainian interests in this room. I urge the government to abandon political ambitions and political intrigues and transform the state's budget and channel more money to the Ukrainian army. We all have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u179	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u180	We must all take responsibility for the future of our country, for Ukraine's future. Only then will we be confident that our children will live in a secure, prosperous state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u181	Bogdan Ruslan Dmitrovich, please. None. Instead of the national deputy Reva, a representative of Kuzmuk is speaking. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u182	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Today, the state of defense of the State and its Armed Forces is nearing a complete loss of their readiness and control. I say this is due to the proper concern of the government and the numbered talks of the President on the problems of the army that have led to the collapse of the 2009 defence budget. Let me give you some facts. To ensure the minimum needs of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in 2009, the opposition government of Viktor Yanukovic and the Supreme Council's profile committee made proposals to the Government for funding the Armed Forces at 17.5 billion dollars. However, the current government has planned the defence budget for 2009 for only 8.5 billion under the general fund. According to three quarters of this year, the ministry received 5.7 billion dollars, representing only 49 percent of the annual plan. As a result, the reform and development of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, including the recruitment of contract service personnel, has been reduced by 6 times; military training, arms purchase, military technology, 7 times; engineering and repair, 28 times; the development of the management system, 88 times; and the construction of housing for military personnel, no copies of the general fund have been allocated. I can't help but wonder at the irresponsibility of the leadership of the state in ensuring the functioning of the Armed Forces. This gives rise to surprises, misunderstandings, and indignation. By its decree, the President of Ukraine, in June months, put into effect a decision by the National Security Council requiring the government to increase expenditure as a matter of urgency — 8.9 billion. Not a penny implemented. Today, the Ukrainian Armed Forces are without a minister, without the Chiefs of General Staff. In just 9 months of the current year, 1,900 officers were released from service, 96 at the age of 96, 700 at the end of contracts, still out of service, and 860 at the state of health. Armed forces lost 145 class pilots in the current year. That's 2 and a half billion dollars. The faction of the Party of Regions demands that the President of Ukraine execute.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u183	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u184	appoint the Chief of General Staff immediately and apply for the Supreme Council of the Defence Minister. By the end of 2009, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will develop and implement a plan for the operation of the Armed Forces during the crisis period, provide additional funding to the Armed Forces by the end of 2009, amounting to 1 billion 230 million dollars. Ensure the absolute execution of Kabminu's decree. in the 340 million stabilising fund. To anticipate 19.8 billion dollars for the Ministry of Defence in Ukraine’s 2010 National Budget project, a total of 18.8 billion dollars. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u185	Thank you, Alexander Ivanovich. The national deputy Jaroschuk hands over the right to speak to John Vasilovich Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u186	Thank you. Popescu Ivan Vasilovich, faction of the Party of Regions, Cherniewec region. In Ukraine, as in other Orthodox countries, there is an ancient tradition that in places where people have died, memorial signs, crosses, and so forth, the memory of dead relatives and friends. In recent times, however, due to the fact that such signs have hindered drivers and created an emergency, the authorities have put up with them, which, of course, infuriated the relatives of the deceased, especially the Orthodox. Dear colleagues, I want to point out that much more is distracting drivers from the multicolored advertising that is located along the roadways on the boards. But in this case, no one hastens to ban or remove it because it gives a very large amount of money that is sometimes used very opaquely. Dear colleagues, taking advantage of the opportunity and the insistence of Orthodox believers, such as the Chernobyl region, ask the appropriate executive authorities, the DAI, the road service, and so forth to explore the possibility of putting an end to these signs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u187	Gordijenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u188	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! I would like to refer from this parliamentary rostrum to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, in connection with the information that I have become aware of, the gross violations of current legislation by officials of the Ukranafta shareholders' association in the introduction of criminal schemes for the minimization of taxation and the avoidance of taxes on a particularly large scale. Thus, between June 12th and October 1, 2008, the company Skrnafta listed 18 payments to the private notary of the city of Kremenchuk totalling 21 million, 941 thousand, 863 dollars for notarial certification of oil sales contracts. These financial transactions have all the signs of fictitiousness. It is a simple scheme of shadow money transfer, which entails an unjustified understatement of the financial performance of companies and as a result of the failure to pay taxes to the State and local budgets. Starting in April 2008 and today, the officials of the company’s “Ukrnafta” stock company have been implementing clearly planned measures for the fictitious bankruptcy of companies in the interests of the famous financial producer group “Privat”. In particular, Ukrainian oil purchase schemes are used and through a series of related intermediate structures are used for the unwarranted cost of producing the product after processing the raw material into the IPA at low prices of the structure. All of these structures are registered in the city of Dnipropetrovsk at one address in house number 4 on the street of Širmov and are part of the “Privact” group. For example, at 115 auctions held in March 2008 at the Ukrainian Interbank Exchange, Platinmindastriz purchased 149 thousand tons of Ukrainian oil at the price of 3 000 969 dollars. Later, in April 2008, this oil was purchased by Skrtnaft through Optamatrade and Sodalit, but at the price of 4 thousand 752, 4 thousand 480 dollars per tonne. Thus, at the April monthly oil supply to the IPA, an increase of 67 million was made. In April 2008, Platinmindastriz purchased 165 000 tons of oil at the price of 4000,633 dollars per tonne. In May, all the raw material comes into the IAPZ for processing from Optimatrade at the price of 5,000 293 bracelets. In this case, an excess cost 183 million dollars. In June 2008, the situation was repeated. This month’s overpriced cost 144.5 million. In July 2008
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u189	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u190	What I'm saying is that in 2008 alone, more than 1.6 billion dollars were washed out of the UK. As a result, the company did not receive a significant amount of income, some of which did not reach the State and local budgets in the form of taxes. Taking into account these enormous sums of funds that have been stolen for a long time by officials of the Ukrnaft Stock Company, due to the overvalue of oil in its purchase through the middle structures, by tax evasion, and thus proving the strategic importance of the company's energy security to artificial bankruptcy, I request that my statement be considered as a parliamentary request to the Prime Minister and the Attorney General, requiring the immediate use of all radical institutions to stop the abuse and to give a legal assessment of the facts of the deliberate commission of the corporate shareholders of the Ukrnafta multimillion-dollar losses to our State. A more detailed text of the parliamentary inquiry with documentary confirmation is given to the presiding officer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u191	People’s deputies, Sinic and Glazonov, hand over the right to speak to the national deputy of Kolesnick. Please have six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u192	Respectable citizens of Ukraine! On 8 July the following year, 90 years have been completed since the birth of the outstanding son of the Ukrainian people, the best Soviet airwave of the Great Homeland War, three times the Hero of the Soviet Union, the Marshal of Aviation Ivan Nikitovich Kožeduba. The winner countries at the state level will honour the memory of the glorified fighter pilot. And only in Ukraine, his homeland, has the question of the worthy perpetuation of the hero's memory still not been resolved. To date, President Yushchenko of Ukraine, Kabmin of Ukraine, headed by Timoshenko, has failed to comply with the requirement of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the celebration of the 60th anniversary of the liberation of Ukraine from fascist invaders, the construction of the Kožedubu monument in Ukraine. The current power does not wish to honor the memory of our family's freeing soldiers from the Fascist yoke. This confirms the lack of funding for the construction of a monument in 2010. This is despite many years and years of recourse to the authority of veteran and military patriotic organizations. Accordingly, I have submitted a draft decree to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the celebration of the 90th anniversary of Ivan Nikitić Kožeduba. But when considering the draft ruling in the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Spirituality and Culture, which is headed by the Ukrainian People's Deputy from the “Bloka Timoshenko” Yavorivsky, who saw the monstrous, cynical attitude of both the light memory of the Kožeduba and, in general, the veterans of the Great Homeland War. So Yavorivsky began the discussion with a mockery and a smile on his face that the best aces were fascists. Obviously in view of the fact that the largest number of planes was hit by one of the German Aces, not three times by the Hero of the Soviet Union of Cosze Dub. Please proceed to the discussion of the project on a substantive basis, no members of the committee, which includes: Yavorivsky, Kendzior, Fedorczuk, Drevljany, Movčan, Kosov, Yushchenko, Kirilenko, who represent “Blok Timoshenko” and “Our Ukraine – People's Self-defence”. In violation of the Rules, Mr. Yavorivsky did not put the bill to the vote, but ordered that a decision be made in November to include and consider these bills only next year. At the same time, he knew that money should be included in the State budget this year. Thus, Timoshenko’s manuals once again showed the beast’s masonry, the hatred of the heroic past of our fathers and grandfathers, the pathological desire to distort the truth of history, and the desire to honor even the feats of the sons of Ukraine. Such actions reveal the true nature of the new promoters of fascism in Ukraine, without the slightest conscience, and the true patriotism and love of Fatherland. My second address is again related to our Ukrainian lovers. Under the sound of political scandals, the unprecedented scales have been completely looted by the cultural heritage of Ukraine, recorded in archaeological sites. They especially like to decorate their private collections with archaeological finds and cultural objects of the current Ukrainian patriots in power. Everybody knows the colossal collections of Yushchenka, Polishchuk, the eagles of Timoshenko and many other so - called fighters for Ukraine. And yet it is not possible to legally compile such collections. Any archaeological objects found in Ukraine belong only to its people. But it is a crime to destroy and rob ancient graves and quagmires, rob churches and museums. Apparently, Mr. Yavorivsky decided to make his own laurels on this scene. To that end, he amended the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain legislation that effectively eliminates the State control system in force in Ukraine for the protection of archaeological and cultural property. For today, according to the requirements of the law, the dispossessment of lands on which archaeological sites may be located should be carried out only after a mandatory examination of the Institute of Archaeology of the National Academy of Ukraine and its branch in the fields. But the lover of Ukraine, Mr. Yavorivsky, clearly loves her materially and proposes to select these functions of the institution and to eliminate the obligation of expertise. Thus, about 150,000 sites of the archaeological heritage of Ukraine are planned to be looted. Even now, existing laws, regional leaders, such as the Volyn and Suma regions, have provided direct guidance on how to go around archeological expertise, or have replaced it with references from local museums, regional cultural offices, which are often led by “bandurists” and “dancers” and other “deepest experts” in archaeology. Under the direct cover of the Government of Timoshenko and the President, a full-scale scheme is being implemented to clear Ukraine of its cultural heritage. It is clear that two rabbits are being tried to kill at once: to destroy the land of Ukraine and to plunder the cultural and archaeological assets of our Power. Meanwhile, media reports, such as "For UA". The President has already taken his private collection to Canada, where experts believe he is going to emigrate after the election of the new President. And patriotism. In this room and in the media, the “hot nonsense” of some Ukrainian community from Sevastopol about the threat from Russia, the war from Russia and other insinuations and the delusions of sick people is constantly being circulated. I officially state that there were no organizations in the town of Sevastopol called the “Ukrainian community” at the response of the Prosecutor's Office and the administration of justice. Therefore, all this nonsense is being cast upon us by another “orange” populists, who are trying to create civil resistance, civil nuisance, in order to justify their free policies and the impossibility of creating a comprehensive and unified independent State of Ukraine, which will take place after the election of Victor Yanukovic of the Presidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u193	People’s MP Kirilenko hands over the right to speak to the national deputy Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u194	Jaroslav Kenzior, MP “For Ukraine!” Strange things are happening in our Ukraine. Those who once burned churches, those who once killed, exported, exterminated priests, and were fierce atheists, now became very religious and went to church, and were struggling for the condition and architecture and spirituality, and in particular, the person who had just appeared here from the Supreme Council’s rostrum, this round with the Ukrainian name. But this is such a brief reaction to the previous speech. I'd like to touch, honourable colleagues, distinguished Ukrainians, another subject. Perhaps each of us here in the session hall or at least most and many people who are interested in both politics and economic affairs have asked themselves on more than one occasion: for what are the merits and why did the President and Prime Minister of Russia become so noble and charitable, refusing, orally, without altering the gas contract signed last January, not taking or counting, for the time being, sanctions and pennies, and fines for undeclared Ukrainian gas? And here we understood, knowing the ways of Moscow’s leaders, that something had to be paid for, something to promise. And then, after reading the revelation -- Michael Brodsky's interview on the Ukrainian Truth website -- everything becomes very, very clear. Why, everyone knows my relationship with Michael Brodsky, but knowing that Brodsky was very close to Julia Timoshenko, he speaks in his revelations in this interview. “I am deeply convinced, for example, that in July's gas contract, which she signed with Russia, Sevastopol is in place. Come 2017 – and all, Sevastopol sold. Sold for all these pennies, fines that we grow because we don't buy unnecessary gas.” If this, and I think it's probably true, and if this is already meant by the Russian Black Sea Navy -- a promise given by the Prime Minister that he will be standing in Ukrainian waters by the end of the day and stationed in Ukrainian territory, then I have a perfectly reasonable right to address both the Security Service and the Attorney General's Office in view of this prospect -- the threat for Ukraine to investigate this case because it is for the national interests of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u195	Volencian Eugene Valerijovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u196	Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! We have an interesting situation with the coal industry. Everyone loves her, everybody caresses her, flies her, does everything we can to make it seem like communism, to say so, it's already in this industry. But unfortunately, we see completely diametrically opposite things. We start by saying that people who worked 20-30 years at the company, and this business is closed, can't get their domestic fuel, that is, coal. And since 2008, people have been forced to buy coal for their blood, their pensions, because they can't buy coal because they can't heat their homes, and they don't export coal for the second year in a row. This is a situation like that in Krasnodona, as well as in some regions of the Donetsk region. So what's interesting is that all the problems that arise in cities are noticeable, because these cities, small towns and towns are coal. The other day, in the city of Yunkom and Ulysses, near Enakiyo Donetsk, they decided to close the hospitals. So 17,000 people will be left without medical care, and people will have to drive a few tens of miles to get some medical attention. I think that closing hospitals, like this, even went to the marzas, closed hospitals, and psychedelics were released to the streets. Where are we going? There are also major problems with education when schools are closed. And there came to me a letter from the members of the Snežany Mountains Council asking that the issue of financing, which is now in schools, either to change or to exclude schools that are in settlements adjacent to the city, transfer them to the status of rural schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u197	The national deputy Vetwicki is transferring the right to speak to the national deputy Kurpil.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u198	Dear Chairman, dear fellow national MPs! In recent times, we have seen the oppression of a political atmosphere that is totally unacceptable in this crisis situation. We see attacks being intensified personally against the government and against the Prime Minister. This is understandable in terms of political opponents. But this is totally not perceived by the majority of Ukrainian society, because the government is working. The government ensures implementation of the budget, regardless of all wheel insertions, despite efforts to disrupt government programs, despite efforts to prevent the adoption of a new budget on a new basis. No one can beat the government out of the right working rhythm. It's strange to hear different insinuations about some sort of secret accusation, as if some secret agreement between the Prime Minister and the leaders of other states. This is not appropriate for any of the national deputies to do so, since all these insinuations are already exposed. In his time, such political accusations were made by the well - known historian Andrew Kislinsky, who then did not have a diploma. But this specialist, with the permission to say, has infiltrated Ukrainian intelligence. If we have special forces where anyone on the street can get in, we can pay the charges to these specialists. Any struggle must have a civilized logic. The dirt that is pouring, including from my colleagues in Lviv, is totally unacceptable, because not all methods are allowed. And cynical methods always have a boomerang effect. It is he who digs the pit, the one who sows the strife, who scatters it and sows it. It's not like it's supposed to be a society. We see that the President was able to disprove Ukrainian society instead of consolidating it. And now the person who has the chance to win the presidential election and to lead the national democratic forces, to lead Ukraine, is subject to obstruction. This is totally unacceptable. Not to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u199	I will now put your proposal to the vote if you so loudly suggest. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u200	Friends! Those who have a bearing on national democracy will be determined by the Ukrainian people, not by individual deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u201	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u202	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Ukrainian people! I want to pay attention in my speech for two moments. The first moment that I want to turn to, and I want to look to the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to its Head, to the deputies who are now present at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, this is about a bill that can have a major impact on the improvement of the crisis situation in the country because. This is project 0954, because one of the main causes of the deepening of crises has a negative impact on the economic, social, energy and environmental security levels of the State's lack of reliable data on production, supply, transport, consumption and consumption of fuel-energy and housing-communal resources. Housing-communal services. In fact, prices and tariffs cannot be traced from the original chain to the end, that is, the consumer does not know why it pays so much. And this is in all the cities and villages of Ukraine. As a result, I stress that the implementation in Ukraine of the EMCDDA as a modern, objective, permanently active state information and communication system, which successfully operates in countries with a market economy and in countries of Eastern Europe and Baltica, will allow the creation of an objective energy balance of the state, which will have a significant positive impact on the level of economic, social, energy and environmental security of the state. I call for an urgent law to be passed, reviewed, and the government to support and implement. Also mine. Calling me a team. The labour team of the ‘Tattra South’ of Dnipropetrovska, which is made on the basis of Yuzhmash, is the only one who manufactures tram cars, and also considers the deputy request to the head of the city of Kyiv Mr. Černovecko, Prime Minister Timoshenko and Attorney General Medvedjk. They refer to me for the protection of a domestic producer, whom everyone is talking about all the time, but unfortunately, the Kiev authorities, contrary to the rules of the Law on Urban Electricity and the position “On the purchase of jobs”, are constantly trying to purchase urban transport of a questionable quality. And at what cost do you think? It turns out that at the latest sales of 20 tram cars for KP Kyivpastrs, the ZAT offer “Kievska Elektrosports Plant”, where nothing is produced, and this is a Russian tram-mechanical plant, suddenly twice as expensive as in Ukrainian, for 156 million dollars. [[St. John's wort]] Is this a crisis economy? I call that another way of saying it is corruption. And that's because Russia is protecting its market, and it's not letting go.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u203	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u204	And so, in conclusion, I'm addressing the mayor of Chernevski, the Prime Minister, to the Attorney General: take an urgent look at the criminal group behind which the mayor's officials are acting in the form of a Kiev power plant. I demand the support of a real, domestic manufacturer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u205	Karpuk Vladimir Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u206	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!”, “Our Ukraine”. Reverend Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! Regrettably, the presidential campaign, which has already officially begun, only reinforces the economic, political, and moral degradation of society. Most presidential candidates, and about one and a half dozen of them are in this room, act as if they've forgotten that after the presidential election, life in Ukraine is not over. Moreover, if presidential candidates, their fan clubs, fight without rules and benefit from the country, as they do today, Ukraine as a state can simply fail. This is not an exaggeration: quarrels, corruption, and populism have weakened the country so much that the Kremlin, which has always dreamed of destroying our statehood, has moved from information and economic pressure to direct threats. On the other hand, the external attack on our country is actively supported by the “fifth column” of which many representatives are sitting in this room, and one of the national MPs has demonstrated this today. It has come to the conclusion that the Ukrainian national deputies are calling for the surrender of Sevastopol to Russia. At the same time, the session of the Donetsk Region decides to introduce the so-called “alternative lessons of history” in schools, “the lessons of truth”. Whose Truth? That neighboring country that set up a commission to uphold historical truth in that imperial chauvinistic spirit? How many more similar examples must there be so that the Public Prosecutor’s Office, the Security Service, can seriously deal with criminals who, by covering up various party tickets, promote hatred in the country? Ukraine is without a defence minister, without a Chief of General Staff with an army whose irresponsible politicians have chronically given no funds even at the most. I mean, there's more to medical services than modernizing and purchasing new weapons. The civil movement “For Ukraine!” calls on the highest leadership of the state to pay attention to the security and integrity of the country. The President should immediately submit and the Supreme Council should approve the nomination of the Minister of Defence. After that, the appointment of the new Chief of General Staff should be immediately resolved. The budget of the Armed Forces, as for this year and the following year, should be decisively reviewed. We need to enable the Ukrainian army to buy and repair weapons in our Ukrainian factories, to increase the readiness of the Air Force, the Air Force and the Rapid Response Force first. In addition, despite the ongoing elections, the presidential, local, and other, parliaments have to work on systemic reforms, and above all, on defence, national security, and health reform. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u207	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u208	Therefore, for the next sessional week, we are required to include the issue of the adoption of laws relating to compulsory compulsory social and health insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u209	The people’s deputies Samoylik and Haydayav pass on the right to speak to the national deputy of Kzarkov. Please have six minutes of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u210	Respectable voters, respected Ukrainian people's deputies! On the eve of the great Jubilee – 65th anniversary of the release of Ukraine from German-Fascist invaders – I would like to highlight the position of the faction of the Company of Ukraine in connection with the situation in the country. The senior leaders of the State are leading the country openly to falsification. The heirs of coffee lovers in concentration camps openly support nationalists and neophasists. The Goebbels heirs of the Ministry of Education falsify the history of our children's textbooks without hesitation. The heirs of the Fascist cultprom of Mincult are doing better than some fascists in the 1940s. They declared war on the monuments of the Soviet era, all of them. The Minister of Culture sets monthly plans for the number of acts of vandalism and demands that they be carried out without reproach. The “banderlogs” of Lviv have established an additional pension, and our veteran of the Great Homeland War has been cut off completely. The BSS has become a school of high morals, a hot heart and an officer's honour to serve as a “mandarization” of Ukraine with a department of hunger exhibitions, forgings, as well as a sports section of nationalists and tournaments for the Suhevic Prize. The representatives of the media, with the help of the Fifth Column, in a variety of freedoms, make our children's words and adolescents false about the heroism of Stephen Bandera and Roman Shuhević, Andrey Melnikov and Vasily Cooke. They are celebrating the division of the Galicina SS and the Roland and Nahtigal battalions. At the same time, the paid crowd of 50 bracelets in these studios delights them. And what's most frightening is that in society, only units stand up against such submersibles. The fact that a national socialist assembly in Kiev had almost taken place this year cannot be overlooked. Not anywhere, but in the Central House of Trade Unions on Krestatik Street. Similar events also occur in a popular studio on the channel of one of the oligarchs. Why won't anyone shut up to a provocateur who compares Hitler to Stalin on 9 May? Why is everyone silent when they insult all Soviet veterans and liberators? Why is it that on 14 October, the anniversary of the UPA, nationalists and neo-fascists are opposed only by communists, patriots under red flags? Yes, because the authorities have the heirs of the Fascist poor and the descendants of the Collaborative Perceptive and Banderlogs. But we, Communists, are faithful to the memory of those calamities, we swear that we will not allow the mockery of historical memory and believe in the hour of reckoning and justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u211	The pervs don't even talk. Dear veterans, participants in the liberation of Ukraine from German- Fascist invaders and bandits! Respectable compatriots! On behalf of the faction of the Company of Ukraine, allow me to warmly congratulate you on your upcoming public holiday, 65 years from the date of Ukraine's release from the German-Fashistic invaders, as well as the “banderlogs” often in the Parliamentary Hall. The years of the Great Homeland War were a severe test for all the Soviet people. Ukraine has taken on the hottest, man. The Fascist Wehrmacht of Germany. The unwavering courage, the burning patriotism of Soviet soldiers and officers have become the unapproachable bastions of which enemy troops have broken. The persistent battles on our land, the feats of guerrillas and underworlders have overcome and broken Hitler’s plans. The brilliant offensive operations allowed the Republic to be cleansed of the fascist occupation and to open the Soviet Army's direct path to freeing the peoples of the world from Nazi enslavement. Forever written with gold in the book of history of Soviet red commanders and warlords: great Joseph Stalin, Marshal Georgi Jukov, Marshal Klima Voroshilov, Semen Timoshenko, Boris Shaposnikov, Alexander Vasilevsky, Ivan Konev, Leonida Govorov, Konstantin Rokossovski, Rodion Malinovsky, Fedor Tolbuhin, Andrey Eremenko, Vasilija Petrova, as well as famous warlord generals: Nikolay Vatutina, Ivana Bagramen, Ivanakhovsky, The Volodya of Merkulov and many other immortal names of commanders-communists, commander-ins. The heart of noble descendants fills with sincerity, pride for the fathers and grandfathers who have protected our country. Each of us cherishes our deep appreciation for those who have endured and won the holy war who have given their lives in the name of peace and tranquillity to this day. We bow to the prodigious frontalists and interns of the rear for a huge contribution to the great victory, for the post-war heroism of rebuilding the populace, for the science of life that you pass on to young people. We owe it to your indelible feat, our sacred duty to make the lives of veterans worthy of conquerors, and the memory of war has continued to live forever and has helped to raise a future generation in a spirit of unfavorable love of fatherhood. With a holiday for all of you, dear liberators! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u212	National Deputy Bunny Ivan Aleksandrovich Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u213	Dear voters! Dear National Deputies! I want to draw your attention to a few questions: First. We passed drafts yesterday, and one of the bills is that the cut-off ban on the sale of agricultural products in markets by the same-persons themselves. It's a normal thing. But we need to prepare to move on to civilized European standards. And to do that, I think we need to take two more steps. One step is that we have the Law on Income from Natural Persons, where for personal agriculture, or people who have up to two hectares of land with a pie supplement, is a tax of 15 percent of income. In fact, it's out of circulation. And so, people who grow almost 80 percent of the milk, half the meat, a lot of vegetables, potatoes, they essentially put into such economic conditions that they can't survive. They can't do economics. That's why I'm still asking the heads of the Supreme Council, the committees to see this bill in the Supreme Council Hall. The second question is: We need to create cooperatives. Again, there are changes to the law. And there's two rules: one rule that these cooperatives are non-profit organizations, and the other one, they need state support. Only in that direction can we implement the law that we have made. For I have heard every spell here: because we have entered into the hundred, so we are not living well. It's not the WTO's fault, it's those people who don't want to work in Europe today who don't want to regulate legislation according to European and Soviet standards. Therefore, we should not deceive people, but we should say that we do not want to live civilizedly. It is possible that someone does not want to, and most people want to live as they do in Europe. And we've also taken a decision here at the Supreme Council to impose a moratorium on the alienation of property, building for creative communities. But it turned out to be a position like that of museums. And we see today that almost all over Ukraine, some kind of museum-hunting has been announced, thrown away by all these museums, which offices, under other things, and thus impoverish the history of Ukraine, and thus impoverish our culture. So I think we need to take another decision to impose a moratorium on the alienation of property not only of creative communities but also of museums. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-23-m0.u214	Dear colleagues, 2:00 p.m. The following week, we are scheduled to work as national deputies with the electorate. And the next plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday 3 November at 10 a.m. The morning plenary session is closed.
