ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and prepare for your registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:27]] [[Registration of Ukrainian National Deputies]] The 423 national deputies registered in the session hall. In accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, honourable national deputies for the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine declare the sixth call open. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Dear National Deputies! At a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there are members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, headed by the First Deputy Prime Minister, the Head of the Constitutional Court, the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Commissioner of the Supreme Council for Human Rights, the Attorney-General of Ukraine and other officials.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, the speech is given to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u3	Dear National Deputies! Honorable members of the government, all invited, representatives of the Journalist Department! If we were to observe the ritual, it would obviously be appropriate to speak now about the extremely important importance of this session, especially given that it coincides with the political campaign of the election of the President of Ukraine. But this observation and the corresponding exclusion today are totally unacceptable, and mainly because we are the Supreme Council, unfortunately, witnesses and direct participants in the country's destruction process. It's weakened to the limit, and it's increasingly being driven into political isolation, and all the calculations for elections and re-elections are nothing more than a demonstration of power, so we're also being politically helpless, trying to avoid responsibility is not our best asset. The situation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine is a complete reflection of what is happening in the country. Both the country and the Supreme Council are constantly being tried to break up. The country, like the Supreme Council, functions by inertia. The country, like the Supreme Council, is in chaos. The country, like the Supreme Council, is being adapted by groups and political forces, for the benefit of specific leaders, to take its role in the function of the challenge. The country, like the Supreme Council, was forced into continuous political interpersonal relationships, a strong system of relations. All of this combined with the constant political pull, the established arguments for blocking work, is obvious: both Ukraine and the Supreme Council are falling out of time, demonstrating a strong inadequacy to social and human needs and questions. People survive this difficult period, not because of us, but because of us and our actions, our inactivity. It can't go on like this, 'cause it's not going anywhere. That is why today and now it is necessary to ask the question and publicly answer it: Should the Supreme Council work, as it belongs to the legislative and representative body of the people, not be necessary? And stop torturing people, sowing infidelity, despair, and hatred against their representatives, and thus against the state among their people. To hope and to expect that after the election, you will be able to restore the work of the Supreme Council to a minimum of acceptable levels, or to reload it through one temporary election to the new president, is a primitive policy. Nothing can be created or created in the ruins. I appeal to you people's deputies, the Supreme Council should work. You think otherwise, you're blindly following instructions -- let's make a decision to stop doing it through self-departure. Then let us stop the abuse of the country and the people. At least that'll be fair. I am definitely in favour of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to carry out its constitutional mission, for serious conversation and serious work, for reasonable compromises, for reconciliation of positions, but for the cause, for the people; against reprinting, abuse of common sense, culinary arrangements, forcing them to serve. All issues must be finally resolved only in the session room, on the basis of public arguments, on the basis of the Constitution, laws, and Rules. We can't avoid, and right now the general, if you want, talk about what's going on in the country. Why all this disorder is intensifying and deepening. What will happen next? That's what people need to hear first, and I think it's necessary to go back to the proposal to hold a special meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the participation of the President and the government. Once again, Ukraine needs a serious conversation from the point of mind and responsibility. We need to determine how we will live today and tomorrow. Elections are not the rest of our lives and the choices of life are not over, we need to define a national action plan. I underline the real plan of action, not the next ultimatums, a plan that people would understand and support. First of all, these are acute issues: jobs, pensions, wages, housing, health care, availability of a basic food set, that's the minimum, and we need to be clear about how we're going to implement it. If this proposal continues to be ignored, I am convinced that much worse times lie ahead. To continue to live by the principle of ‘a car will show’, without resistance to the development of an economic base, by devaluation of the spiritual base is to accelerate the crash, this is an example of the Soviet Union in recent years. We should also take into account this warning: A State that does not ensure constitutional order, legality, and respect for human rights, which depends on and relies on external factors, cannot be considered to be fully sovereign. This is formal sovereignty, and we have it. And no more. Therefore, we are obliged today to ask questions about the quality of government without awaiting the conclusion of the presidential elections. Today, it is not able to withstand any criticism, either because of its incompetence and irresponsibility or because of the removal of people from real participation in government. Elections for today's electoral system are not our best political acquisition. All of these are obvious problems, but we are not doing the obvious, but we are making it difficult, especially when we take into account the fact that practical tasks are always dominated by the desire for permanent political reorganizations, the copying of the Constitution. In practice, such innovations are reflected in indestructible, indestructible attempts to legitimize the feudal political system, transform the country into a political moment, a specific timetable of forces and individuals. Please support such obvious suggestions. I understand that each of us needs to stand up, move away from the state of apathy, stop dedicating everything that comes down, or point out with a cry or a wave of hand, and start to demonstrate principle for the cause, or else people will not respect us all. However, they are no longer celebrating us. If we support these fundamental positions, we will have clear criteria for dealing with the issues proposed for the agenda of the day, more than one and a half thousand. For the 2010 National Budget project of Ukraine, we will feel that the work of the Supreme Council is in line with the needs of the country and the people. Dear National Deputies! We have long gone through the limits of what is acceptable and acceptable, and we may not have noticed this in the heat of a relationship. We need to stop. Each must make a meaningful choice, a choice in behalf of the full fulfillment of his or her responsibilities. Behind us, country! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u4	Dear National Deputies! In accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, on Tuesday, 30 minutes are allocated for statements made by factions making statements, making proposals, and so forth. I'd like the factions to sign up for the performance. Please put your name on the board. Victor Fedorovich Janukovic, please. Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u5	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear National Deputies! The fifth year of this rule ends, with a little more than four months left. In the second year, the country is facing an economic crisis, Ukrainian disorder, and lawlessness. Many previous evaluations are, unfortunately, being carried out. This power has indeed turned Ukraine into a pirate ship with hostages, but without a captain, without a rudder, and without a sail. What has her country been led by today's leaders with their “economic breakthroughs” and “steps to meet people”? The state machinery has been destroyed, it is said, “whoever is in the woods is one by one. ” The Head of State is actually limited to the leadership of the state, only limited to statements and press conferences. The coalition is fiction and a phantom. At the same time, power is concentrated in the hands of a government in which everything is actually resolved in one office. I have no doubt that manual administration, invasion of business and economic freedom, systemlessness of action, dictatorship and outright self-advertisement is a direct way to a new person's cult. And all of this is happening in our eyes. Under such circumstances, the judicial system is transformed into a blind instrument for the execution of political orders. We all see what happens to banks, bracelets, the real sector of the economy. Instead of real action and anti-crisis programs, the Cabinet of Ministers is using hypnosis for the population and drugs for the economy. The chosen strategy, which some considered to be a failure, is to re-emphasize from the crisis by increasing domestic and external debt, hoping for improvement in the future, is wrong and very dangerous for Ukraine. The national economy is almost completely paralyzed. The decline in industrial production is more than 30 percent, and the fall in domestic gross product is more than 20 percent. The fiscal and banking sectors are in critical condition. The national currency in one calendar year was cut down almost twice. We have many examples in previous years of our independence, some sad statistics are said to be. For example, in the 1990s, when Mr. Yushchenko and Lazarenko created the budgetary pyramid of the UDP. So this year, Timoshenko and the management of the NBA built a new pyramid, but its scale and threats are much more serious than they were 12 years ago. Ukrainians need to know that today the funds are spent from the budgets of 2010-11 and the following years. The miners, the metallurgists, the builders, doctors, and teachers now receive empty promises. Such cynicism and hypocrisy were not part of Ukrainian politics for 18 years of independence. In addition, the government tries to survive the crisis by walking around the world with its hand out, and the country is in debt and more than once. Our children and grandchildren have stolen and destroyed tens of billions of dollars, all under fanfare with a smile on their television screens. I say that all the talk of the authorities about today's world economic crisis is a fig leaf that covers a deeper and more serious problem. Now the question is, save the country and rebuild the state or continue the drift in a direction of destruction and destruction. It has become quite clear what to expect from.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u6	Allow me to finish the speech. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u7	anti-crisis programs just don't make sense. For almost a year, the country is in crisis, and the government has not been able to offer any system document to society and the Supreme Council. We don't think it can go on. So we're going to initiate, honourable colleagues, the creation of a national anti-crisis centre. To start with, we're going to set up an opposition government. Already today, we need to identify a list of fundamental and critical issues for the state that need to be addressed at any time. And we prepared this list of questions for this session. First and foremost today, we need to help overcome the crisis for Ukrainian citizens. On this issue, we will not allow any speculation, and we insist on increasing the minimum wage and minimum pension. I consider this a direct duty to Parliament. And that's the position we're going to stand for last. The other one. You can't let the country's fiscal system collapse. There is a need for strict parliamentary control over every step of the government. We require the government to provide the MPs with objective and complete information about the state of implementation of the national budget, the budgets of the national companies already this week. We also need information on the structure and extent of borrowing in the internal and external markets, to publish plans on terms and sources of repayment. You don’t even want to hear the truth. [[B in m in s a l in]] Listen to me for once. Listen up, reverends!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u8	Victor Fedorovich, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u9	We're being drawn into a new confrontation, dear colleagues. Those initiatives that the President is taking about the Constitution, in our view, have no prospects. So we need to go back with you to the establishment of a parliamentary constitutional commission and determine the terms of its work in order to harmonize the draft amendments to the Basic Law. And work on this law, and stop this company a few months before the election.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u10	Thank you. Let me finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u11	And we thank all the teachers today for their work and dedication to their profession. But this year, September 1st, we're celebrating another date -- 70 years of World War II. Please, honourable national deputies, honor the memory of the victims of the war by a moment of silence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u12	Please sit down. Dear, distinguished national MPs! John Grigorovich Kirilenko has the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to request your attention within 8 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u13	Dear Head, colleagues, distinguished voters, welcoming everyone to the beginning of the next session of the Supreme Council, I would like to address my colleagues, the hall and the next. We all understand that this session is going to be too difficult. At the same time, she will be extremely responsible. Despite the fact that the government’s efforts have been halted, and the economic recovery has continued for five months, we still have an enormous number of challenges that we have to respond quickly and make effective decisions. Next. Given that the world economy continues to suffer from a crisis, and we are very dependent on it, we will face the challenge of adopting a balanced and real State budget for 2010. There's another reason. The fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be held in the face of a brutal election campaign, which is understandable. Many will be tempted to use Parliament’s rostrum not only for fruitful legislative work. In particular, we realize that in these difficult circumstances today people and socially vulnerable groups of people, especially pensioners, need to be supported. The government has an understanding and a responsibility to do so. It's so that we don't limit ourselves to the adoption of the law, which is in the order of the day, and not cause inflation, which, by the way, is the most painful thing that is going to hit poorly protected citizens, that our faction is proposing the adoption of a living minimum to combine with the preparation of the State Budget project for 2010. Only under such conditions will raising social standards bring real improvements in the standard of living to our citizens, not the additional costs of devalued national currency. And we don't give up on what we say. Let's look at the transcript of the plenary session on July 24, this year. It says to blacks in white: “We will support the social protection of people, especially the low-security sections of the population, provided that this is agreed with the government, the budget committee, and will not entail colossal inflation and impairment of the bracelet.” To avoid that, 10 dollars were added to one and 100 dollars were taken away from everyone by the instantaneous price rise. That is exactly what will happen when the choice is accepted. He's not just disagreeable, he's dangerous in fact. It's show populism. Do the authors of this initiative know that the wages on their private mines and metallurgical enterprises have already been reduced several times? And now we're going to have to pick it up and be firm. On what account did you ask your owners? So we clearly propose: without populism, let's recalculate and propose real things, not another fantasy that we can't vote for. Second, our faction would like to sharpen your attention. During the fifth session, more than 1,500 drafts were submitted, of which more than 200 were government - sponsored antichrists. In view of this, our faction clearly insists on the business regime of the session, and let it not be hindered by the presidential race or by populism or the desire to please the electorate -- we have a great deal of work to do. In this regard, we are initiating the first week of plenary work. We have enough bills that we have considered on the committees that can be put to the voting room. And we certainly propose that we dedicate one day to 40 bills that have been drafted, approved, and supported by local governments and their associations. In recent times, all political powers have made it clear that we should support local authorities because they have a lot of commitments and no opportunities. Let's really delegate to them both finance and authority and responsibility. That's why our faction and our government require that these bills be considered first. In particular, laws governing land relations in rural areas need to be adopted to amend the Earth Code, to introduce land auctions. Finally, the issue of local taxes and congregations should be resolved, allowing them to improve their system in Ukraine and enabling them to strengthen the financial base of local governments. We need to address the social protection of peasants, so we insist on adopting a bill on private agriculture. The President’s veto must also be overtaken by the Law on Changes to the Budget Code and decided on many other vital bills, including laudable government and parliamentary benefits. I would like to draw your attention, my fellow Members, to the fact that all these issues have a direct impact on the formation of the budget for the following year, which the government should submit and submit by September 15th. At the adoption of these laws, both the government and our faction have been insisting for over six months. You can't delay anymore. That's why we urge you to abandon electoral rhetoric and in part to address the pressing issues that our society has long been waiting for. Thank you all for understanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u14	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania” faction. Peter Simonenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u15	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Starting today, September 1, the new academic year in Ukraine and coincided with the beginning of the work of the next session of the Supreme Council is quite symbolic, since September 1st is also Knowledge Day. I realize that years of schooling or higher education have not always been directly related to the acquisition of positive knowledge, since there are not so many examples of low education, underculture, or sometimes underliteracy at all levels of the social body, including at higher levels. But it seems that knowledge, though, is not a panacea when it is superficial. In any case, a cohort was formed with regard to young careers without constant conviction, a government post for which the authority is a goal and a second step towards the next position. The benefits of such a society are also zero. And there is no need to talk about the effectiveness of the job of jumpers and gastrolers. They all lack one thing: the deep, non-artificial, knowledge and understanding of the fact that non-politicologists are supposed to determine the order of the day's work, the not-so-called election chips have to rely on the center of the activities entrusted to persons, because as many repetitions of the word “halva” in the mouth do not make it sweet, there are also thousands at a price of billions and millions at a price of white boards, no matter how many times they promise to save, rebuild, build or build or build on yotta do not improve the well-being of ordinary people. Because electoral paphos and self-advertises don't turn into wages, pensions, quality and affordable education and medicine -- what millions of people really need. And it takes not a few months before the election, but constantly, regardless of any election campaign. In fact, the well - being of citizens, their safety, their health can be the result of daily, non - showy, not demonstration, but routine, conscientious, responsible work of the authorities, both in Parliament and in other authorities. Instead of intrigues, riots, life from scandal to scandal is a consolidated will, multiplied by work. Instead of quarrels, images and words of fornication, practical work is enough for the people, our citizens and this work for all the worthy. And one more thing. Lack of systems, spontaneous and fragmented initiatives and actions, even when they are done for good reason, produce not only permanent auras, storms, cavalry attacks, but also unserious and crucial – mistrust from different levels of society to government itself, to its adequacy to modern challenges. And that's a deep problem. And what yesterday's agreed positions are happening today, and tomorrow -- they're just denying -- these cycles of incompetence are just derivative, deriving from incompetence, or perhaps just inability to grasp, and thus to follow modern and effective science, yes, the science of government. From here, a reflective response to problems and challenges of time rather than timely analysis, forecasting, and based on them on a systematic sequential solution strategy, primarily social and economic issues. So at the beginning of the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Sixth Call of the Block of Lithuania suggests that we identify ourselves with those, not small-scale, but actually endearing issues that will determine the quality of the life of our citizens, which we must consider and make appropriate, I would stress, complex decisions already in September. For example. Immediately, examine the sad experience of our neighbors in providing security, including the technological security of strategic objects. The exhaustion and weariness of many of our most important economic objects requires real and immediate work to prevent technological catastrophes in Ukraine. And the price here is huge. Next. With the real support of the village, the Parliament would have to adopt a law that prepared the Lithuanian Bloc for the commission of Parliament. The fact that this document is still being ignored can only indicate that those who do not want to vote for it are likely to be among those who count that peasants will not go anywhere and will be forced to sell grain at no cost. To overcome the agro-industrial crisis, it is essential that those who know, understand the problems of the village, and are not associated with the oligarchic clans deal with these issues. This is not a question of implementation, but rather of the non-implementation of the Rural Priority Development Act, which foresees the development of the socio-cultural sphere in rural, rural medicine. Dear colleagues, along with others, a complex and systematic approach to the most serious issues today is needed as air, for figuratively speaking, such air is necessary regardless of political conflicts, election campaigns, and targeted ratings. All this past and best of all will be left only in memoirs. Here is the sound air, the healthy spirit of a healthy social body, and we must provide for our offspring. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u16	Simonenko is Peter Mikolaiovich, a faction of Communists. Next is Mikola Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u17	Respectable comrades! Dear colleagues! We sincerely welcome our high school graduates today, as well as the graduates of schools and higher education institutions with this beautiful day. And let that day be the beginning of their happy journey, and our task is to help make their happiness real, so that schools can be opened, not closed, so that schools can be equipped, not destroyed, so that buses can walk, and there's a hot meal — that's our job today. And while welcoming everyone, I want to thank the teachers and congratulate the parents. But we are also talking about the tragedy of humanity, which has to do with the same date, is the beginning of the Second World War. We are talking about the tragedy of humanity, which has paid millions of lives for the fact that capital has unleashed World War II. And the beginning of the Second World War or the cause was the world crisis, which was the capital that ended this world war. Respectable voters! No matter how sad it may seem to us to live with you, it will not be easy, and it will not be soon. The Supreme Council of large capital representatives and nationalist organizations, especially today in the struggle for the presidency, has become an arena for fragmentation, division and deception. However, it is clear that they all agreed on each other mainly to maintain this criminal system and to maintain the current political regime. And whoever of the oligarchs is in a presidential chair for them is not going to make it any easier for a working man. After all, there is no difference between crowning a dragon and having one of the oligarchic and transnational capital. The heads had already been crowned: first Kravczuk, then Kuchma, then Yushchenka, and eventually they had taken public property. It was in this bottomless oligarchic dragon that people’s factories, steamboats, and airplanes were found. So for large capital, which has already laid eggs in different baskets and returns, ordered which head to crown, any candidate — either rich or nationalist — is a purely technical candidate. He'll have to earn millions of dollars. We call for an end to these debates and political bargaining in the struggle for the presidency, and will address the needs of the common people. The Company's faction insists that the bills that we have proposed be considered at this session. It is first of all to vote on packages of laws to increase minimum wages and impose a moratorium on rising prices for food, medicines and essential goods, as well as on prices and tariffs for housing and utilities. There's no other way. Everything else is fraud and inflation, as well as rising prices. Secondly, the Nationalization Act must be adopted immediately. Strategic industries and productions should be public property and serve the entire people, not as a milk cow for oligarchs and officials. Third. We insist on banning the sale of agricultural land. We also categorically advocate the prohibition of the sale of land to foreigners and legal persons with foreign capital. Is it not a recent example of Lozinski, who, with the hypocrites, ruthlessly killed a man simply because he walked on the land he had seized, that he taught us nothing? We're not going to let that happen. We're going to let the rural boys who have come to the shore of the river hit the fish fall victim to another password. Fourthly, we propose the introduction of a monopolies for the sale of liquor and tobacco products – up to 30 per cent of the entire budget, that is security and quality control. This is an opportunity to allocate billions of social resources: medicine, education, pensions. This must be done because, in the current crisis situation, the oligarchs continue to import rotten meat and sell it to the people of Ukraine. No less problems in the financial and banking system in Ukraine. It is affected by the trombones of excessive credit rates, which do not allow businesses to develop, or even bring them to an end. At the same time, the banking mafia itself is making billions of dollars worth of money. In this regard, we have drafted a bill that provides for a 10-fold reduction in the credit rate for the real economy to three per cent of the annual economy. This will ensure that jobs, wages are maintained, and that enterprises have working capital. We also propose eliminating the value added tax by replacing it with a turnover tax. Another bill that we are proposing and insisting on its adoption is aimed at protecting individuals, investors affected by bank speculations in the currency market. We require the adoption of a law prohibiting banks from selecting debtors'assets for repayment of loans and interest. Under our law, banks are prohibited from taking housing, vehicles or other equipment purchased for loans during a crisis. The draft law was adopted on first reading last December. The distinguished voters, the representatives of these factions, who tell you the most about social programs today, and do not want to adopt this law to protect your interests. In addition, we propose a law that obliges banks to accept credit payments in a bracelet at the time of the conclusion of the credit agreement. We also insist on legislativeizing the liability of bank owners to investors. If there's nothing to deposit, be a good man, sell a bank, sell your cars, your homes, and count on people. At the same time, we are against buying corrupt banks from public money. The result is that the banker robbed a thousand people, destroyed a bank, killed a few dozen, or even hundreds of businesses that served there, and then, once, and still received a lot of money for it. Such banks must be transferred free of charge to the public and their owners must be brought to justice. We are well aware that any law makes sense only when it is implemented. It is clear that this power is the power that in 18 years has turned Ukraine into one of the most backward countries in life and the human development index, as confirmed by the findings of the United Nations, to enact and enforce laws for people rather than for themselves, does not wish to do so. And one more, respectable comrades. This is September 1st. The Ukrainian company has truly congratulated every family in which the first-graders went to school, congratulated them for giving each freshman a free Buquar, notebooks and pens. So what's going on? Today, the Public Prosecutor's Office, and in particular in the case of the same Cercas Public Prosecutor's Office, is trying to bring criminal proceedings against us for free handing out letters and notebooks to schoolchildren. Well, what kind of marzas can we come up with today to act like this?Oh, my God! Or the esbéuèci have gone completely astray, little is said to have forgotten that national security is being handled, tried to humiliate today, insult the television companies that have honestly shown the film who is the Hero of Ukraine, Shuhjevic, and who has assigned him this title as the Hero of Ukraine. They began to be intimidated by taking pictures of their work and bringing them to trial. This is the true face of this junta and their true intentions today: to humiliate and insult the Ukrainian people, forgetting that the people of Ukraine are both the bearer of the power and sovereignty of our country. I today call upon the people's deputies to take responsibility for this session and to submit the objectives of this session only to the working people and to those issues that are very important today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u18	Mikola Martinenko, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u19	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Today, another session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine began. It will be influenced by two powerful factors: the first is a severe economic crisis that is taking place in Ukraine and around the world; the second is a presidential election campaign that has actually started in Ukraine. In such cases, people are told: Two plagues on one head. I am convinced that Parliament must do its utmost to ensure that pre-election politics does not hinder the fight against the crisis. Meanwhile, in politics and mass media today, it is political that is the subject. One of them is the strengthening of Ukrainian-Russian relations, which is clearly going to be brought into the session hall. However, I would not exaggerate the meaning of the harsh statements made by some Russian leaders. These are basically political statements that are called, first of all, domestic competition. By the way, Putin keeps his speechless silence here. Secondly, these statements are clearly called upon to influence the run of the pre-election campaign in Ukraine, to disrupt and polarize politics and society. So let's not get ahead of ourselves, let's be calm and balanced. Members of our faction, such as Irina Herachenko, Olga Gerasimük, Yuri Kostenko, and others, prepared statements about bilateral relations. “Our Ukraine” insists on addressing the issue. At the same time, we are ready for dialogue with all factions without exception so that our Ukrainian Parliament has a Ukrainian position on this issue. In Ukraine and Russia, there are no alternatives to dialogue and continued cooperation, no matter who provokes or invents fairy tales of fearsome Ukrainian fighters. By the way, despite all the conflicts, we'll get Russian gas. So the economic cauldrons are separate, and the political flies with their loud bellows are separate. Of course, in the face of a crisis, the volume of gas transit and its supplies to Ukraine declined. It couldn't have been otherwise. But we've already forgotten about the magic seventh number, which, once a month, caused a downpour of scarecrows -- now Ukraine is definitely not going to pay for gas. Pays off, and it's a success. Meanwhile, the European Commission’s audit demonstrated that there are now more than 22 billion cubic metres of gas in our underground areas. And that means that Naftogaz, which he planned, will be attached to the underground vaults of more than 28 billion cubic metres of natural gas by the start of the heating season. Unfortunately, as the elections in Ukraine neared, political relevance continued to dominate even in the economy. But there are conceptual things that should unite all of us, especially our energy security. For a new session, in particular, the Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex has put forward a number of important drafts. These will also be systems for PEC laws, such as state regulation in energy and narrower areas of energy. We should pay particular attention to the implementation of the agreement with the European Commission and the international financial institutions on reform of the Ukrainian gas sector, because there is a need for legislative support. The agreement is very important to our nation and to its energy security. First, agreements with the European Union should significantly reduce the risks of a gas crisis between Ukraine and Russia and ensure the smooth transit of gas to EU countries. And the second. The prospect of Ukraine receiving a $1.7 billion gas loan is quite real. The Ukrainian authorities must act in a consolidated manner and do their utmost to fulfill their obligations. Needless to say, the joint work of the government and parliament is also crucial to overcoming the economic crisis. Calling everyone in front of the election campaign: less words -- more work, probably nonsense. But let us not forget behind the verbal noise in the matter of the economy of the state on which people's lives depend. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, the performances of the authorized factions have been completed. I'm asking the secretariat to prepare the proposals in the presentations for practical implementation of what the national MPs had proposed during their presentations. Dear colleagues, you have a coherent plan of work for today. Now, one minute. We haven't moved on to the work plan yet. Is there a meeting scheduled for you today, Vasil Alexiyovich? Please. People's deputy, Kiselov. Please. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u21	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! According to 82 articles of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and under 89 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council has the right to establish temporary commissions of inquiry. Draft regulation 4703 on the establishment of TSKs to investigate the causes of arbitrarily captured land in Simferopol, as well as the illegal construction of housing, office and entertainment centres and the inaction of law enforcement agencies, has been established and recommended to deputies for consideration. On 8 July, the Regulatory Committee reviewed my ruling and recommended that the Supreme Council should be included in the agenda and considered without a vote under the Rules. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u22	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Rules, staff matters are included in the schedule of meetings and in the agenda automatically provided that they have undergone the appropriate preparations. So I don't see a problem here, I'm just asking you to pass these materials on to me. Are you insisting that we address this issue today? We'll be right there. If the Supreme Council's will is in place, we'll consider it. If we work productively. Please hand over these documents. What are some other considerations? You don't? Please, Cibenko Peter Stepanovich. This is about the schedule for today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u23	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Council Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Ukraine's veterans were both witnesses and participants in parliamentary hearings in the afternoon on social medical and pension security for war veterans and marking the 65th anniversary of victory in the Great Homeland War 41-45 years. They were held on June 3rd. Given today's preparations for the 65th anniversary of Ukraine's liberation from the fascist invaders, which Ukraine will celebrate at the end of October-month and taking into account the preparations for the 65th anniversary of the Fascism massacre, I beg of you, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, and my colleagues to include this issue in advance. It's fine in the daytime, but it's too late. I have concerns that we won't come, because in a week, two, three of these will no longer be necessary, these recommendations will be unnecessary. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u24	The offer is understood. I have to tell you, dear colleagues, if we have a job together, there will be no problem in accepting these issues. But if it feels like time is pushing us, then I'm going to ask my colleagues to determine what you're suggesting. Agreed? Ivan Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u25	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Unfortunately, we have not finalized Law 1374 and we may not have a successful vote today. [[on the All-Ukrainian referendum]] You realize that's not 226 votes. The faction therefore suggests that we not consider the bill today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, since the committee has not been able to consider the remarks, the President's proposals and prepare its conclusions, I propose that we postpone the consideration of this issue, because it is extremely sensitive, first of all, and secondly, we need to follow the rules and procedures here, namely: wait for the committee's decision. The committee planned to consider the matter. Next plenary week, we'll go back to him. Is there no objection? Ladies and gentlemen, the question is: On the draft agenda for the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call. Allow me to inform you, fellow honourable Members, that all the bills and questions proposed by the subject of the legislative initiative are included in the draft agenda for the morning of September 1 this year. At the same time, at the same time, you have added a daily order, then a list of drafts proposed by individual factions and entities of the right of legislative initiative and the inclusion in the agenda of the fifth session, which are considered rejected, withdrawn from consideration and regulated by the adopted legislative acts and re-registered and reviewed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[One minute, I'll finish.]] Committees and factions argue that these laws are, more specifically, resonant and suggest that they be included in the agenda. And there's also help to list the draft regulations proposed by the NS-NS factions that deal with organisational cadres of the legislative procedure, the TSC reports, and so on, they don't need to be included in the agenda. I would like to remind you, my fellow Members, that organizational cadres are automatically included in the agenda, they don't need a proper vote, as required by the Rules, so this is all taken into account. Ivan Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u27	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u28	Just a minute. Has your representative spoken yet?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u29	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u30	Well, it's a day's work.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u31	Well, you will be now. Just raise your hand, I don't see what you're saying. Yes, calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u32	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, we support the full proposal made yesterday at the Conciliation Council. And we agreed that all of these included bills, and those that passed committees, and where a separate chapter, and that didn't go through committee discussions, also a separate chapter. We have at least four months of work ahead of us. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, let's not have this storm and negative vote in our room, support the proposal that you've been asked to make. We include everything, whether the factions don't like the bill or like it. To that end, we have the Conciliation Council for every week of plenary. We fell out, Vladimir Mikhailovich, in connection with your offer for the morning, two bills came up: 3656 3656 and 5081. [[for the Protocol]] The faction insists that they be included in the order of the day. For. and once again for the transcript: 5081 and 3656.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u33	Thank you. Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u34	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I agree with John Grigorovich Kirilenko's proposal that everyone should be included without interfering with party membership. And I want to draw your attention to two bills that have been introduced a long time ago that have a lot of resonance. This is a project of 3035 — a moratorium on the conduct of a complete forest section and the export of wood abroad. This is very important today to save the Ukrainian nation. And the second project is 3663 – on some issues of managing the property of the Supreme Council for the Glycinia boarding house. This is the national acquisition of Ukraine. Vladimir Mikhailovich, the question is ready, and I'm asking him to include it as well. Two questions: 3035 and 3663. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, for being able to express your opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u35	Thank you. Mikolo. Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to remind you that all the questions that are registered on the morning of September 1st are included in the agenda. So please take a closer look at the documents that are given to you. Mikola Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u36	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Vladimir Mihajlovich, 3096 – draft Ordinance on hearing Deputy Minister Petnicki's report on the effectiveness of Ukraine in SOTA, is why he did not get into the list of issues to be considered. I'm asking you to turn it on. I want Petnicki to be the government official who was responsible for this direction of work, who swore here that we would immediately get 5 billion bracelets to give us the efficiency calculations. Second question. 4314 is my draft Act amending article 1 on the prestige of mining. It's just that it's a coincidence that we've forgotten that there are coal miners, and that's what Krivbassa has to do with others. I would therefore like to return to that consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u37	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u38	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Well, in principle, the approach that was proposed at the Conciliation Board meeting yesterday found consensus. And what's going on right now is a discussion, as they say in vain. If all the bills are registered on the committees and yesterday was mentioned on August 31st, they are all included in the agenda. It seems to me that this is a very right and important approach, for each subject of the legislative initiative has the right to consider this initiative. That's why I think we should stop this discussion, it's already perspectiveless and irrelevant, and we should vote for the entire agenda of the day, taking into account all the bills that have been registered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u39	People's MP Arzhevtin, then Simonenko, then Koleschenko, and we'll finish. And Easy, and we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u40	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! There is a request from our committee that we include the daily bill 3585 as soon as possible. This is a bill that we adopted on June 23rd, 362 votes in favour, we have a committee decision, a bill to overcome the negative consequences of the financial crisis. It is very relevant, so let us put it up for consideration in the near future. And the second. Two of my bills are not included in the agenda, which are also relevant in the context of a financial crisis. It's a bill on the Population Investment Guarantee Fund, 2485, and a currency regulation law in Ukraine, 2029. This is the principle of new bills, and I ask them to be included in the agenda of the fifth session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u41	Dear colleagues! I remind you once again that all the bills that are registered for the 10th hour of September 1st include or propose to be included in the agenda of the day session. Let's get this straight. It's an axiom. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, then Vadim Koleshnenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u42	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Our faction will vote for the general agenda of our session, except if the following draft regulations and laws are deleted: 2534, 2677, 4180, 3656, 4783, 2509, 4845, 4049, 2085, 4543, 4832. The point is that in these draft laws and regulations it is proposed to rehabilitate the Fascist textbooks, the UN-OPA. So, let's say it's said that, let's say, it's about giving the Greek-Catholic Church the status of the repressed church when the priests of this church supported the fascists and consecrated the bloodshed on our own land with you when they killed our liberators and soldiers. And here they're trying to sanctify it and make it a hero. This disgraceful will be the act that today leads to what c.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u43	Vadim Kolisnichenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u44	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! You said that all the bills registered with the Supreme Council for 10 hours today were introduced into this document. However, in this document, which we now have to vote for, for example, a bribe, there are no four of my bills, which have been in the Supreme Council for nine months now. This proposal to ratify the Charter of Regional Languages in a new edition. This is the issue of the right of local government to determine the use of regional language, the use of regional languages in local government bodies. The draft law on the use of national minority languages in public authorities in places of compact residence. They're not here. If we don't vote for them, then we won't be able to put them up for consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u45	I would like to point out again: yesterday at the Conciliation Council, I asked the faction leaders, the committee heads to look at the project that was being prepared, and to come out of that obvious truth that all the questions that were registered at the 10th hour of September are included in the agenda. If anything goes wrong, this lacuna, this gap will be eliminated. How many more can I tell you? Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u46	Oleg Laszko "Club of Yulia Timoshenko". Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I ask you to include in the order of the day of our session a bill for registration number 5082. Unfortunately, he was registered after 10 o'clock on September 1. Ten o'clock, 28 minutes. But this is a bill to amend the Tax Law, which will allow us to maintain the balance of the state budget this year, which is very important in the context of the country's financial crisis. That's why I'm asking for Bill 5082 to be included in the current session of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u47	Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u48	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine” MP. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues and distinguished voters! We cannot accept the practice of the veto on the part of one faction on matters of order of the day that are being submitted by other deputies. We will therefore vote on the basis of the proposed agenda for the session, but if it is removed from the text of the appendix by the Communists, which provides for the removal of a good one - and - a - half - dozen totally constructive and just bills relating to the perpetuation of the memory of victims of political repression and soldiers, the return to the population of historical names, the obligation of the Russian Federation to pay back the debt on lost savings, the questions of historical justice related to the Holocaust, and other issues relating to the Ukrainian national memory. We realize that this national memory is of little concern and has never bothered the Communists, but the rest of the deputies are concerned. That's why we vote "yes" if this communist plugin is thrown out of the text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u49	Yes, dear fellows, have they all made their offer? Let me stress again. Last night at the Conciliation Board meeting, we agreed, and there were no warnings, about the inclusion and inclusion of everyone in the draft agenda of our session -- I stress! - The bills that are registered for the morning, including the bill, let's support, 5082. Only on one condition is that those who are prepared by the committees for consideration are recorded in the first chapter, and the second chapter will be formulated as required by the Rules, which need to be processed and prepared by the Committees for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. No warning? I therefore put to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the order of the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call. I would like to stress that all the bills that have been registered at this time, including Bill 5082, are in the order of the day session. Please vote. [[11:07:09]] For 207 The decision is not taken. Factions: Region Party 1, Timoshenko Yulia Block 154, Our Ukraine 31, communist 0, Litvina Block 20, non-fractional 1. In view of the fact that we cannot continue to work, since the key task of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has not been accepted is the adoption of the agenda, I announce a 30 - minute break for the Conciliation Council. And what I'm saying is below. No one's gonna work under pressure in this theater. You don't want to confirm the order of the day. Let's take a decision to dissolve the Supreme Council. What else do you want? All questions included. There is a requirement of the Rules. You don't want to work? We're not going to work. Break until 11 o'clock 40 minutes. Faction leaders, please assemble in the Head's office.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u50	Please invite the national deputies to the session room. Ladies and gentlemen, there was a meeting of the Conciliation Council during the break. We discussed the order of the day session. A paradox is that all the bills proposed by the MPs, which insisted that clarifications be made and those bills were necessarily in the agenda, were not voted in favour of those documents. I can say, National Deputy Arzvetin, Kolisnichenko and others -- I understand that there are appropriate party facilities, I want to say again, honourable national MPs and honourable colleagues, if we are the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and we understand that we should approve the plan of our work, then obviously we should vote in favour of the agenda as a given. What other suggestions can be made that may still be political differences? And do you have to move on to reading the notes for that reason? One thing I don't understand is how the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and you will put yourself in this place if the Supreme Council of Ukraine has no agenda, how can you continue to work? If you don't want to work, I had an offer, let's make a decision on your own. Well, the instinct of self-preservation should work. I'm not talking about the basic responsibility to people anymore. The next moment. Everyone demands that their projects be taken into account, while others are excluded. But let's address this issue -- whether it's supporting or not supporting the bill -- when we specifically discuss it in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, when we look at these issues specifically. So let's think about what we're doing eventually. What do these facilities carry? What other arguments, suggestions, and compromises can be expressed? What else can you do? A Conciliation Council is meeting. Nothing. None of the issues are solved because there are installations on one side or on the other to break down and break down this Supreme Council. I'm told that we will support on one condition, that everyone will vote in full, without exception. I bet the vote "no exceptions" is not voted on. Please tell me what else to do. What other arguments do you need to find? So let's go this way. I'm going to put once again to the vote the approval of the agenda of the session to include all the issues that have been registered at this point on September 1, 2009, without any deletions. If you don't support this proposal, I'm going to put it to a vote, I'm going to have to make a motion to remove those bills that the MPs insist on. Let's see what you get out of this. That's why I'm asking for your attention! I am voting on the proposal to approve the agenda of the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, without exception, including all the bills that have been registered at this time, on September 1, 2009, and on the clarifications that the MPs have been talking about. Please vote. [[11:59:59]] For 234 I thank you for your decision. To - 234. The order of the day session has been approved. The factions, please. Region Party – 1, "Timoshenko Yulia Block" – 153, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 61, Communist faction – 0, "Litvina Block" – 19, non-fractional – 0. Dear National Deputies, thus, since we have approved the order of the day session, we have automatically entered into an agreed meeting schedule for today. Next, we will consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009, re-reading. [[on the minimum cost of living and the minimum wage]] The Vice-President of the Committee on Questions will report. The committee head will report. Well, let's put it this way: you're going to define each other, now there's going to be a break in the plan, and I'd like to have another consultation so that we can have a good one after this. Well, if you, your honourable colleagues, are proposing without interruption, I have an offer to continue the meeting with the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I need to take place at 12 o'clock in the West. I thought there'd be a break. Is there no objection? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, the draft Act “On Amendments to Ukraine’s 2009 State Budget Act” (for the size of the living minimum and the size of the minimum wage) (second reading) has been announced. Registration number 4557. Please report to the head of the Committee, Mikola Ivanovich Derkac, please. According to the committee's decision, the national MP Bondarenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u52	Vladimir Bondarenko. I'm representing a budget committee today, which I'm afraid I haven't considered. I'll be honest with you that this bill is a lengthy period of consideration, and we first got it to the Supreme Council on May 29th, and it shows that it plays a special and incomprehensible role. The Budget Committee met several times to consider the bill but did not represent the initiator’s faction. And so the bill on the budget committee has not been considered. I believe that, given these circumstances, bringing him into the Supreme Council Hall today is inappropriate for consideration. It should indeed be worked out on a budget committee, but if it does not involve a budget committee meeting, who initiates it, then it is not just the idea that it is a political game, rather than a desire to solve it. So today, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, I have the authority to state that this bill has not passed a proper regulatory procedure and can therefore be considered by the Supreme Council in accordance with the Rules, but it would be better to do so in accordance with the order that we have set with you today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u53	Thank you, Volodymyr Dmitrovich. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, since the committee has not prepared a table for re-reading, we have a draft law that is approved in the first reading and in accordance with the Supreme Council Rules, we can now make a decision in accordance with the Supreme Council's ruling, which determined that we are directing a second reading and that the draft is being considered on the first plenary day, and in accordance with the decision of the Conciliation Board that adopted the decision yesterday. Bill author, Mikhailo Mikolaiovich Papiev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u54	Thank you. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! I have a request to all the national deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, first of all, that we use the correct information. The point is that this draft law was prepared for second reading, as required by the Rules, by the Committee on Budgets. The only thing is, the budget committee didn't make a decision. After that, if you remember, on the 17th. On July 16, 2009, the Supreme Council of Ukraine sent the bill for rereading. Two proposals were made in accordance with the Rules. My proposal, as the national deputy of Ukraine, along with the table as provided by this Rules. And the proposal of the national deputy, Alexander Pecklesenck, to introduce the minimum wage of a thousand 500 dollars from September 1st, and the introduction of the minimum pension of a thousand 300 dollars from September 1st. Therefore, in accordance with the Rules, I would ask that we be in line for these legislative initiatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u55	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u56	In order to provide legislative initiatives, we first voted on the proposals I made as Ukraine’s national deputy along with the table for the second reading. If it does not pass, put to the vote the proposal of the People’s Deputies of Peckushenko. Thank you, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u57	Thank you, Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have only one possibility, since no decision has been made by the Committee on those amendments that were proposed for re-reading, we can only approve the decision on that editorial that was proposed and approved by the Supreme Council in the first reading. I therefore put to the vote the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2009. [[on the minimum cost of living and the minimum wage]] Registration number 4557. Acceptance in second reading and in general. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:07:14]] For-200 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A break of 30 minutes is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-01-m0.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, we are out of the Conciliation Council meeting, the next meeting of the Conciliation Council, because there are no agreements, I have proposed that I once again propose to meet the working group that we have set up to finalize this law. You know, there are co-heads who represent both opposition and coalition to see what they've done, whether they've ever assembled at all, and who have made calculations and proposals in the case of the adoption of the Law on raising living minimum and minimum wage, from which sources this will be financed. Because you understand very well that decisions can be made, but if no changes are made to the State Budget and there is no definition of which articles the sums will be funded, people will receive nothing but another discontent. In view of the fact that, according to the calendar plan for our work, on Tuesday, September 1st, we have only a morning session and was not supported by the Conciliation Council to have the Supreme Council of Ukraine working in plenary mode this week, so there is only one thing left: to address you once again, dear fellows, and to say, after the presidential elections have ended, in such an election, at such an approach as we have, the Supreme Council will not be introduced into a normal place, believe me. And all the petitions, statements, and powers that someone comes and puts up and works, nothing will happen. We'll destroy anything that can be destroyed, and I think other people will come. I'm sure they'll have a sense of responsibility. That's why it's a big request: this week is committee work, factions, and understand what it takes for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to work. And we need to convince by argument, not by pressure. Or try to increase the circle of adherents on a particular issue. The 2004 technology, which was that the Supreme Council did not work, which was in 2004, knows. And the second technology is to make people happy with payments that they didn't pay, well, that's already done. I urge you once again and I will write to everyone, let's have a first meeting in the Supreme Council seriously, aloud, and we will hold a special meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Special session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If we don't trust each other about assessing the economic and social situation in the country, let's give a commission to the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine to prepare a report to be true and honest, and we've seen the state of the country. And then we'll talk about what to do next. Let's take this step. So according to the calendar plan, we have work on committees this week and in factions. I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. The next plenary meeting will be held on Tuesday, September 8th at 10 a.m. in accordance with the calendar plan for our work. The 7th meeting of the Conciliation Council at 11 p.m.
