ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please register. Please turn on the "Council" system. [[16:00:43]] [[Registration of Ukrainian National Deputies]] There are 407 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening plenary session open. According to the schedule of meetings for today, the Conciliation Board proposes that we now include in the agenda of the day the question of the appointment of the local elections. Please prepare for the vote. Please turn on the "Council" system. We vote in favour of including in the agenda the appointment of the rural, rural, urban, and local councillors. [[16:01:44]] For 276 Decision taken. Questions are included in the schedule of meetings and the agenda of the day session. Dear colleagues! I'll be co-authoring this decision with your permission to report on the project. But before we consider this issue, I would like to put to the sessional session the issue of deciding on a reduced procedure. Here we have a whole series of questions that are discussed in the first reading, except, of course, the changes to the Constitution and the information that is particularly relevant. Is there any objection? I would like to put to the vote the issue of a simplified procedure for all subsequent issues, except those under consideration for a special procedure. [[16:02:46]] For 178. Decision taken. The draft Ordinance on the appointment of alternate councils and village, village and city heads in 2010 is announced for consideration. [[Registration number 5097]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u2	Dear colleagues! You know that the election of rural, rural, urban and local councillors, the previous line, took place on March 26, 2006. The Ukrainian Constitution stipulated that the term for which rural, urban, village heads and deputies of local councils are to be chosen would be four years. Since the amendments to the Constitution, introduced by Law 2222, provided that the part that predicted that the term of office of the local council members was 5 years old had been effective following the formation of an oath by the Ukrainian National Deputies elected in March 2006, that is, since May 2006, the last election took place on the condition that the law on the election of deputies was in force for 4 years. That's the answer to the question: why do we actually have to hold the 2010 elections and not 2011 elections? The second position is why the date is proposed is May 30. Since we had elections on 26 March, and according to the Local Government Act of Ukraine to elect local councils as well as vice-presidents of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it gained authority during the announcement of the results at the first session of the relevant city council, thus obtaining the authority of the local council deputies extended from the end of April 2006 virtually until the end of May, with the exception of the two councils of Zaporezki and Hmelnik City Councils, where the acquisition of credentials took place in June and July respectively, since the organizational sessions were delayed. And in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court, which considered the interpretation of the rules of the Constitution in this part, it is established that in this case it should be governed by the same principle as that of the representative body such as the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the deadline for obtaining powers should be interpreted in such a way that they take place at the time of the first session of the relevant council. And the elections are due to take place in the last week of the last month of office, as defined for both the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Head of State. So the choice is May 30, considering that the two councils that I called was a rejection, because all the rest: both rural and district councils, and city councils, were held during the last two months. The question “why does not the question with those who have been elected on a stand-by basis” as was the question, as we have in the Constitution 141st article clearly stated that deputies are elected for a certain term, in 2006 it was four years, now it will be five years. And there is no exception to the extracurricular election, and the relevant decision of the Constitutional Court also makes it clear that all those elected in the non-election elections were chosen for the term laid down in the Constitution. Therefore, this rule cannot be distributed to the deputies of rural, rural, and urban heads who have been elected by out - of - turn elections. Thus, I would ask that we consider this issue today and adopt a decision and that the local councils, as well as those who will be traveling, have clarity and clarity in their life plans.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u3	Please report from the Committee on Questions. We voted in favour of the shorter procedure. A report from the committee, please, Olga Borisovna Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u4	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! On October 14, 2009, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government, commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council, reviewed the draft Ordinance on the appointment of local councils and village, village, city heads in 2010 (No. 5097), introduced by the People’s Deputies of Lavrinović, Portnov, to replace the earlier. The committee agreed with the position of the authors of the draft regulation that the term of office of members of the local councils elected in the next election on 26 March 2006, as well as the term of office of rural, rural, urban heads, is due to expire in April and May 2010. At the time of these elections, the constitutional position of Ukraine was valid, which was determined by the four-year term of office of members of the local councils. The new edition of article 141 of the Basic Law of Ukraine, which establishes that local council members are elected for a term of five years, came into force on May 25, 2006. The committee agreed that the next election of members of local councils and village, village, city heads could be scheduled for May 30, 2010. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy believes that the draft decree is in line with the Basic Law of Ukraine. In doing so, the project's authors suggest that the decision will not extend to members of the local councils and rural, rural, urban, elected after-elections after 26 March 2006, because in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision of 4 June 2009 on the constitutional submission of the Kyiv City Council on the official interpretation of the provisions of the first, second, article 141 of the Constitution, the Constitution of Ukraine sets out the terms for which the country's councils and rural, village, city heads are elected to be elected as members of the local elections. In fact, by this decision the Constitutional Court compared two institutions: the institute of alternating and alternating elections. At a meeting of the committee, the Service Note of the Administration was also considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u5	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u6	Offices in connection with local authorities and local authorities of the Supreme Council. According to the report, on March 26, 2006, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, its 12 thousand 111 local councils and 11518 rural, rural, and urban heads were held. On May 24, 2006, the first sessions of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the 12 thousand 103 local councils were held, which officially announced the election of 11,000 rural, rural city heads. The mandate of Zaporozhye City Council deputies, Zaporozhye’s City Head, elected on March 26, 2006 began at the City Council’s session on June 14, 2006, in connection with the indictment of the decision of the Zaporez City Election Commission. In view of the fact that in individual administrative and territorial units, the March 26, 2006, elections were declared invalid, such that they did not take place or were not held, the eight local councils and the 31st rural councils, the city head was elected in the re-elections after May 25, 2006. [[rural]] That is, at the time when the new edition of article 141, part 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine became effective, local council members were elected for a term of five years. At the same time, it is important to note that since 26 March 2006, six local and 697 rural and urban heads have been appointed and held in turn. [[of the village]] Therefore, it will be necessary for the local elections to be held locally in connection with the conclusion of the constitutional term of office of the respective deputies of the local council of the village, the city’s head. [[of the village]] These circumstances were not included in the draft decree and were not reflected in its position. In connection with the presentation, the committee concluded by voting at the National Deputies meeting to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the outcome of the consideration of the draft Regulation on the appointment of alternate elections for local councils and rural, city heads in 2010, in the first reading, to adopt and entrust the Committee of the Supreme Council on State Building and Local Self-Government with the task of working out the project and bringing it into Parliament's second reading. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u7	We write two "for", two "against". People's deputy Knjazevich instead of the national deputy of Arjevetina.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u8	Dear colleagues! I'm really sorry that we're looking at such an important issue in the short run, it's absolutely impenetrable and it's not official, it's all local elections. We talk so much and so much about the fact that we're going to be one year of city heads and rural, village, city councils, and today we're going to make, in principle, a welcome decision, where those who already see their election in a year should be ready for the next election in three months or four. Here's the thing. I fully agree with this legal approach and will be one of those who spoke on the rostrum about what the norm applies to urban, rural, rural councils, and can only be applied in Ukraine after the next call of rural, rural, urban councils. Because Alexander Volodymyrovich has already explained why. But, dear colleagues, in fact, the issue is not resolved, for we have remained open to the question of the different terms of authority of rural, rural, urban, and local councils. And if there's a simultaneous vote this time, the next time it's all going to be the same difference that's going to lead to permanent, eternal conflicts between rural, rural, urban, and councils that are going to be chosen, not with these heads, but against the will of this head, as the practice shows. And the second question is true. This is a matter of the Constitutional Court's decision. The Constitutional Court said that all the councils and heads elected to the election in turn have the same term of office as those elected to the turntables. Not enough that it balances the whole system, more than that, I think the Constitutional Court said a, but I wouldn't say. He did not say that this rule was extended to those elections that had already taken place before the court’s decision, for the court’s decision, like the law, had no retroactive force. Thus, city heads, such as Kiev, and the city council of Kiev are not subject to this court decision, such as Ternopilska and others. And that's a question that no one else can solve. And as long as we don't solve this question, it seems to me that it would be inappropriate to vote in favour of this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u9	Grenevetsky Sergey Rafailovich, please. Zarubinsky National MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u10	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! I have to respectfully object to my predecessor in this rostrum and express my view that this is not a viable decision at all. I don't think that election as a member of a person is a viable decision. It may be beneficial for this person, but obviously not for the whole country. I think we have a calm approach to this project, without a big puffoso, and do what we have to do -- determine the date when the local elections will take place. First position. Second position. The Constitutional Court's decision is, and let's not interpret it differently. When there is a case law, when there is a case-by-case decision, we obviously have to look to it. And it's clear that those people who haven't reached their deadline, in this case, four years have the right to do so, just as it was the right decision. This is the second position. And the third position. I think it's absolutely right for us to determine the date of the election, based on the fact that the MPs in action were elected when the voters knew they were going to be four years of deputies. If we are to do so for five years, we must do so on the next occasion. Yes, by the way, honourable colleagues, as we did, I'm sorry, and for the Supreme Council. Remember, when the term was increased to five years, it involved a new calling, a new deputy corps, because if they vote, for four years, they should be four years old, they should be five years old, and there should be other terms. So I suggest we calmly take this project and vote for it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u11	Thank you. The discussion is over. Dear colleagues! In order of instructions, I will say that today's session schedule provides for a review of the draft Law on Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine, which provides for the establishment of a five-year term for the powers of rural, rural, urban heads. So we can make this term equal, but that's what it's going to be. Please prepare for the vote. I put to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of local council members and rural village heads in 2010. [[Registration number 5097]] I'd like to make a statement. In general, the vote shall be taken. [[16:18:06]] For 390 Decision taken. The next election of rural village heads will take place on May 30, 2010. You have a procedure? Out of the procedure, National Deputy Catherinechuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u12	The European Party of Ukraine, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", Mikola Catherinechuk. In principle, the decision is the right one. The only thing that almost all political forces are certifying their electorate is that the next elections on local self - government bodies will follow the principle of majority. I'd like to see some of those drafts, though. And the candidates for the Presidents who promise everything they promise to do, listen to it, let them give their factions their commands today to submit such bills and vote. So that local self - government authorities do not become organs that redistribute municipal property into private hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u13	Thank you. But this does not apply to the question. Of course, when there are draft laws that will provide for a change in the electoral system, they will be considered in the sessional room. And the will of the national deputies to make decisions. Now we've decided on the whole assignment of May 30 of the following local elections. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. Information from the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine and the Ministry of Internal Affairs on the activities of law enforcement authorities in connection with the recent proliferation of media reports on the commission of criminal acts against sexual freedom and the sexual integrity of minors. To address this issue, we need to adopt a separate rule of procedure for its consideration. We have a committee proposal. And it's obvious that under each item of this regulation, we can determine whether by consensus or by vote. We have information from the Attorney General of Ukraine, up to 10 minutes. With motive? Catherinechuk, please. National Deputy Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u14	Dear National Deputies! I understand it's a shame for all of society to be pious on this subject. So I'm proposing that we be able to figure out in all the nuances of this case known today both to the Attorney General and to the Minister of Internal Affairs. And so I suggest we do this hearing, listen to this information in private. Let us not be pious, this is a very serious matter, and society is watching how the authorities today respond to this information, which has already caused much publicity, and behind every step of this information are children, their fate and the fate of our society. So I'm asking you: we clean up the entire pierre and we only deal with the issue of crime and its investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u15	Thank you for the offer, Mikolo Dmitrovich. For this reason, please Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u16	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues! I think before that, we had to think about who was doing what. And when the fact itself has come to an end and the whole country is talking about it, there is absolutely no price to consider in a closed regime what has happened. Another issue is that the high special ones who will report today know for themselves what information to give, which cannot be issued, because the investigation is proceeding. As for those who wish to remain in a closed regime, the factions of the Party of the Regions have nothing to hide from the people of our State and we do not support this proposal. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u17	Dear colleagues! This is not a discussion. A proposal was made to deal with the issue of classified information. I'd like to propose a vote, please. [[16:22:44]] For 186 The decision is not taken. We'll work in open mode. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 146, Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense – 40, Communists – 0, Litvina Block – 0, non-fractional - 0. We turn to the issue of the rules of procedure. Is there no objection to a speech by the Attorney General of Ukraine? Answers to questions from national deputies by the Attorney-General of Ukraine The committee offers 10 minutes. Are there any suggestions? 20. Do you have a 20-minute pass? [[B in m in s a l in]] There's an insistence on 10 minutes. Anyone who supports the proposal for 10 minutes, please vote. [[16:23:55]] For-137 The decision is not taken. 20 minutes. Is there no objection? None. Information from the Minister of Interior of Ukraine – 10 minutes, is there a denial? None. Answers to questions raised by Ukrainian national deputies The committee also offers 10 minutes. Is there a denial?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u18	20 minutes, people's deputies insist. No objection, 20 minutes? There's no objection. 20 minutes to reply to the Ukrainian people's deputies. It is proposed that the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, Nina Carpachov, also be given the opportunity to speak. The committee's up to five minutes. Is there a denial? [[B in m in s a l in]] The authorized Human Rights Council requests 10 minutes. Is there a denial? Is there no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u19	Roger that. So we agreed with you on the rules of procedure for dealing with this issue. I'm inviting you. There can be no questions to the Authorized. That's not her report. I invite you to the rostrum of Attorney General Alexander Ivanovich Medvedzka for information.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u20	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! Unprecedented and unfortunately not only within the country of social resonance has a criminal case involving criminal acts involving two minor children. In one way or another, the crime has also stained the name of our Children’s International Health Service. Today we are discussing a very delicate subject. Current legislation limits the publicity of cases involving sexual offences. In a criminal case, the victims are children and, first of all, we are more humanly obliged to ensure that all events have a potentially harmful impact on their future fate. Unfortunately, however, there is reverse political engagement, excessive human interest, pear in a foreign disaster and, as a result, the origin of rumors, gossip, misrepresentation of facts, disclosure of information that is legally the secret of investigation. Using the media, the Attorney General is obliged to warn those involved. The criminal responsibility for the disclosure of the pretrial investigation has not yet been overturned. First of all, allow me, honourable national deputies, to draw your attention to the chronology of events surrounding the criminal case. On April 16, Dniprov’s police administration in Kiev asked to have two young children who claimed to commit fornication against their father. Eight days later, i.e. April 24, solely on the basis of an explanation of the father without a forensic examination of the children in a criminal case, was unlawfully denied the absence of a component of the crime. On May 20, Dniprovsky’s district attorney’s office canceled the illegal decision, and the materials were sent for further inspection. On June 1, the decree of June 1, again, was unlawfully rejected in a criminal case for the same reasons. During the additional inspection, the police were limited to four explanations of the mother, the children, and the father. On June 10, the district’s procurator’s office annulled the illegal decision in the second instance with the simultaneous violation of a criminal case based on the fact that a criminal act was committed under article 156 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. From June 19, during the month, the work of the investigator at Dniprovsky’s district office was limited to nine follow-up actions, including the adoption of several procedural decisions and the questioning of the father. Other actions were not carried out by investigators. In July, and more precisely on July 24, a criminal case was investigated by the city’s attorney’s office with written instructions directed to the organization of a further investigation into the administration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in Kiev. The state of the case was examined by the Attorney General’s Office. A corresponding letter to the city’s prosecutor is given to the accounts of the investigation and, on August 6, appropriate instructions are given by the prosecutor of Kiev for the crime to be reclassified to part three of article 153 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, namely, the violent enjoyment of sexual passion in an illegal way in relation to minors. By now, the findings of forensics have been drawn. It is indignant that since July 24, when the investigation of the Central Authority in Kiev has become known about the possible, I emphasize, possible involvement in the crime of the employees of the International Children's Centre “Artec”, not all possible measures have been taken at the same time to determine the circumstances of the events, to establish these persons, to carry out the necessary follow-up and to take legal action on them. The identification was carried out only a month after the adoption of the case. On August 14, about Poluchovich, a criminal case was committed, specifically concerning him. On August 17, he was charged, and on the same day a precautionary measure was chosen — keeping him under guard. The above shows the irresponsible attitude toward the duties of the Dniprov police administration and police investigative authorities in Kiev, self - removal from the direction of the task force. Despite the fact that Poluchović, the mother of the victims, had been dealt with with crimes by police officers in violation of the law, and the investigation was very unsatisfactory, on October 19, all those responsible were not held accountable. In connection with this Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General’s Office has sent a letter to carry out an additional service inspection to ensure that adequate measures are taken. On September 2, both in the area and in the city of September 2, the case was investigated by the Ukraine’s Chief Investigation Department. The facts regarding the involvement of officials of the International Children’s Centre Artek are examined in an investigation. The Attorney General’s Office has authorized searches in the work offices of persons and in a service vehicle. The judge obtained permission to conduct searches at the place of residence and registration. The following actions have been performed. Personal security for the victims, contrary to the requirements of Article 52 pr. The Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code was not secured at the time. Such a decision was taken only at the direction of the Attorney General’s Office and the decree of October 14. Regarding the involvement of Ukrainian national deputies in these events. This fact became known in the Attorney General’s Office on October 13, of the parliamentary address of the Ukrainian national deputy, Gregory Omelchenka, and the mother of the children. Neither the mother nor the children were informed of the involvement of the National Deputies in the events. On the same day, on October 13, the mother was questioned by the officials of the Attorney General’s Office. She confirmed the information contained in the statement regarding the deputies. Similar testimony was given by children and three national deputies were recognized on the photos. Verification of their possible involvement is ongoing. I'm bringing to your attention that since October 13, the Attorney General's staff have been directly involved in all of the investigative actions that are essential to the case. Yesterday they were questioned as witnesses by the national deputies Teryochin and Ukolov. To this day, an interrogation of the national deputy Bogdan was scheduled. But the information I have has been transferred to tomorrow. The Joint Order of the Deputy Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs and the Head of the Security Service for the need to quickly carry out a large number of investigations and search-and-rescue measures to ensure a more complete, comprehensive and objective investigation of the circumstances of the case, and to improve the effectiveness of the prosecution's supervision, has created an investigative task force. It consists of eight members of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and two Ukrainian Security Services, directly supervised by four officers of the Attorney General’s Office. Honorable national MPs, it should be noted that children not only suffer from this family’s crimes but also many others, as evidenced by the dissatisfaction of statistics. In just 9 months of the current year, 8,000,362 minors, including 110 of them from rape, have been reported to have committed 214 cases of sexual depravity and 46 sexual relations with a person who has not reached puberty. In fact, more minors have suffered this year than in the past by 8 percent. 232 were convicted of rape and 47 for articles 153 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, section 1 and 2. The task of society and the law enforcement agencies is to prevent such crimes, and when they are committed, to bring the guilty persons to justice, and most importantly, to rehabilitate the child victims, to restore them to normal life, which is possible only if they strictly comply with the requirements for non-disclosure of information received during the investigation. By the way, on October 19th, a statement came to the Attorney General’s Office by the national deputy Teryochin, including the drawing of the responsibility of those who had divulged the mystery of the investigation. In accordance with the requirements of Article 112 of the Criminal Procedure Code, the application is sent to the Ministry of Internal Affairs for examination and verification by means of an investigation. And finally. Taking this opportunity, I would like to ask the media, journalists, politicians and national MPs to refrain from any comments on the case, since there has already been irreparable damage not only to the investigation but also to the affected children, to the Children's Camp "Artek" and to the State. Please do not turn this into a farce or investigate the matter throughout the country, since the actual circumstances are known only to the investigation. Evidence of the matter must be collected in the legal way for the purpose of punishing the guilty. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u21	Thank you, Alexander Ivanovich. Please sign up for questions. Larin Sergey Mikolayovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u22	Please pass the word to Chechtovo.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u23	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u24	Dear Alexander Ivanovich, thank you for the unpleasant but objective information. Please tell us after what happened, the Attorney General's Office seems to be obliged to bring criminal proceedings against those who have disseminated information about children for: the first is the disclosure of the secret of adoption, the second is the disclosure of the secret of pretrial investigation, the third is a violation of privacy. What is your opinion on this matter, and what are you going to do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u25	Thank you for asking. I've already mentioned that we have a statement from the People's Deputies of Terehina. But not only on the basis of this statement, but also on the basis of the publications that were in the media, the statements made by individual politicians, we will certainly conduct a review of the criminal case and take a decision in accordance with existing legislation. If there are grounds for bringing a criminal case against the facts you have mentioned, we will certainly resolve the matter of initiating a criminal case.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u26	Smudge Grigory Evdzimovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u27	Alexandre Ivanovich, from your information, shows that from April 16th to October 16th, investigators and law enforcement agencies did not take sufficient measures to provide, collect and produce evidence in part of the fact that computers and other evidence were not removed at the right time to provide sufficient evidence to ensure that the charges were brought. Please tell me how this can now be replicated and will it affect the course of the investigation, because the evidence of the matter is the basic base that today will appear itself? And the second question is whether they will be held accountable, criminal, including the officials who contributed to the lack of timely involvement in the material of the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u28	Thank you for asking. In fact, you are right about the importance of material evidence — computers, videos, photographs, and cameras. Regrettably, however, the names were not really removed at the right time. They have been removed in the course of the pretrial investigation at the wrong time, unfortunately. However, two computers were removed: one was removed, one was removed, and one was removed from the mother of the injured children. There's also a mobile phone shutdown and all the appropriate measures are now being taken, the criminalized expertise to get us information that will be taken into account in this criminal case. Regarding responsibility, I said that we had sent Lucenka Yuri Vitaliovich a letter to carry out an additional service inspection. This inspection was carried out on an official basis, and I would like to inform you that they were accepted by order of the General Directorate of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev and have been called to account by the Chief of the Criminal Police Department in the cases of children of the Dniprovsky District Administration, he has been warned of incomplete office clearance, strictly stated to the Chief of the Dniprovsky District Authority, but not brought to justice by several officials and. They were on leave at the time, and we are now asking the Minister about the conduct, as I said, of further examination and the use of more stringent disciplinary influences. With regard to a criminal case involving those who failed to do so at the proper time, the results of the investigation will show. If we come to the conclusion in the course of a pretrial investigation that there is even a basis for a criminal case, that decision will be made.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u29	Stoyan Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u30	Please pass the owl to Olena Lukas.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u31	Please, Lukash Olena Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u32	Alexander Ivanovic, from your report, it is clear that for seven months an organized criminal group, consisting of representatives of the Dneprovov Ministry of Internal Affairs of the city of Kiev, the Office of the City of Kiev itself, under the auspices of the Minister of the Interior, who knew about the situation, was actually involved. In seven months - and according to your information - no major investigations have been carried out, no basic procedural decisions have been taken, the rights of the victims have not been protected at all, and many evidence in the case, I think, have already gone. So I have two questions. First: do you intend to take part in your own proceedings, in the proceedings of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, because you say it is impossible to put more confidence in the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which does everything to ensure that the pretrial investigation is neither complete nor objective and does not bring to justice those who violated the rights of mothers and children? And the second question. Please tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u33	Please finish your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u34	After the disclosure of information about children, I believe that their and their mother's lives are at risk. What will the Office of the Procurator-General do to ensure the safety of children? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u35	Thank you. Thank you for asking. Well, as Attorney General, I have to be more specific than politics in my statements, so I can't even talk about an organized criminal group by the militia, I think it's wrong. Indeed, there are questions, I have said that, to the fullness, completeness, speediness of the investigation of this criminal case into police officers, there are also issues of illegal denial of criminal proceedings twice, and in such circumstances, without all possible verification. There are, of course, questions. With regard to the investigative nature of the criminal case, the Code of Criminal Procedure defines the investigation as a matter of internal affairs. I have already mentioned that in order to ensure the speed and objectivity of the criminal investigation, the three law enforcement authorities have set up an investigative and operational group, including security personnel, two Security Service staff, eight internal affairs officers. In addition, it was also decided that four officers of the Attorney-General's Office were responsible for the investigation of the criminal case. All the investigations, here are the people's deputies who have been questioned, I think they will confirm that they are being conducted with the staff of the Attorney-General's Office, allowing, directly, not on the documents, not on the criminal file, but on the prosecution's direct supervision. With regard to the transfer of criminal cases to the Attorney-General's Office, we will discuss this issue tomorrow at the operational meeting and a decision will be taken accordingly. Although I would like to emphasize once again that the criminal case is a police case.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u36	Bodnar Olga Borisovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u37	Please give the voice to Sergey Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u38	Let me train my psyche, ask you a few questions. First of all, it's not clear where the information came from, the primary information about the involvement in this case, the ugly business, the national MPs. Citizen Muntian. Montyan, on live television, said that she had received a phone call from a suspect’s cell phone cellmate, and from there she learned that there were national deputies. You just said that you found out, the D.A. learned from the address of a citizen of H.M. Then there are versions of Mother’s showing 450 photographs of the national MPs, where she was chosen.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u39	Complete the question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u40	Three photos were selected, and in these three photographs, everyone is ready to find out who the sex member belongs to? That's the first question. The second question. What prevents you from breaking a criminal case without investigating, and how did this come about? And then we'll investigate where it came from in the press, where it came from in the open speeches of the two bad guys sitting here in this room. Why don't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u41	Thank you for asking. Once again, I have informed the people's deputies that we were aware of this on October 13, this year, when I received a call from the national MP, Gregory Omelchenko, who gave the appropriate address. On that same day, she came to the Attorney General’s Office and mother with an appropriate application. And on the same day, the mother was questioned about the facts given in Gregory Omelchenka’s address, and she was also questioned about the facts she had personally set out. As far as the criminal case is concerned, it's a fact of disclosure, as you say. We're working. Disclosure of the mystery of the pretrial investigation is provided for in article 387. And the Criminal Procedure Code states that the question of solving a criminal case on such a fact in a case that is being investigated, for example, by the internal affairs body in this case, is being decided by the authority that conducts the pretrial investigation. That's what we're up against. [[B in m in s a l in]] And we've sent this letter to the Ministry of Internal Affairs for verification.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u42	Katerinczuk Mikola Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u43	In order for us to break a criminal case, we also need a basis, simply to take and break a criminal case simply because you have made an appropriate statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u44	Please ask the question of Mikola Dmitrovitch Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u45	Alexander Ivanovich, you said in your report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in principle, that the investigation is ongoing, that all of the practical procedural norms are being investigated, that is, investigated. That's all you can say, because there's an opening session. Even in a court of law, such cases are only closed. So what do you want to find out here? We're not going to hear anything at this point. So, in principle, all I have to do is ask that question. Please state your experience on such matters. How long before the deadline, please tell me, could she be in court? And for you to do your job so that criminals can sit behind bars, it's very important. And the Supreme Council will keep an eye on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u46	I want to say what is the question that I can say here when this hearing takes place in an open session. Indeed, there is a mystery to the investigation. But so much has been said about this case that as the Attorney General, it is even difficult for me to add something to what is said. And this has indeed caused great damage to the judicial investigation. As an investigator, I have repeatedly investigated such criminal cases. In general, criminal cases should end within a period of two months. Sadly, it was so that it was not completed within a period of two months. So I think we're going to make a decision in the shortest possible terms, and I think in a two-month period, we're going to make a legal decision in this criminal case.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u47	The sand is Ivan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u48	Thank you. Please pass the word to Valery Bondik.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u49	Please, Valery Anatolyovich Bondik.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u50	Dear Alexander Ivanovich, please tell me that I have recorded the following figures in your report: 8,000 are figures who have committed crimes, i.e. crimes that have been committed, and only 232 are condemned. So you don't think that really the latency of these cases, of this category, which unfortunately we referred to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, of the Ministry of Investigation, is deliberate on officials like Gennady Moskal, who. the territory of which the case is going through, but he has not done any follow-up. That's why I have such a question for you. Please tell me, do you not consider it appropriate for the prosecutor to respond to the prosecution’s action, or to file a complaint about the removal of those or other officials on whom this investigation depends? So you said you were writing letters. But you're the head of the task force. Did they make a note or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u51	In fact, I named the figure 8 000 362 -- that's the total number of minors who have committed all of the crimes in 9 months of the current year, not just sexual offences. 232 people were convicted, I said, for rape and 47 for committing such a crime, which is now being investigated by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. A large number of other criminal cases are in a court of law where no decision has been made. There is also evidence of a trial. By the way, on October 15, in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, there was also such a terrible crime — the rape of a five - year - old girl. And the person who committed the crime was arrested, arrested, charged, and prosecuted. Literacy is certainly present, as is the case with all other crimes. That is why I cannot call this figure objective. That's the fact that it's registered. You write. We don't make any prescriptions under criminal and procedural legislation at all. We're submitting and we're submitting letters of service checks, which we did. This is attributed to the conduct of inspections of so - called general oversight.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u52	Spanov Dmitry Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u53	Please pass the word to Samofalov Gennady Grigorievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u54	Please, the National MP of Samofal.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u55	Having heard your information, I personally have no words today to express my indignation at the criminal acts of the Ministry of the Interior, which for more than half a year have concealed crimes that have maimed the fates of children and have caused great harm to our Power. That's my first question. What measures will be taken by the Prosecutor's Office to those officials who have all done so by the Ministry of the Interior? And I have a second question. I did not hear the answer to my colleague's question, but what about the children and the mother, how will they be protected by the Attorney-General's Office because, for example, I do not believe that the Ministry of the Interior will today provide protection and effective investigation? Please answer these two questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u56	I've already answered my information, thank you for asking. In my information, I answered your question, in fact, that on 14 October, on the direction of the Attorney General's Office, an order was issued to investigators to ensure the safety of persons involved in the conduct of criminal proceedings. This security concerns the safety of children and their mothers. Therefore, measures have been taken here and I think that security will be ensured and that we have both internal affairs and the Security Service.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u57	Evening, Vladimir Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u58	Evening, Party of Regions. I give you my word to Gregory Omelchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u59	National MP Gregory Omelchenko Dear Alexander Ivanovich! What you're saying is right. I'm just going to make a point. I've been addressing you with MPs about proper vetting and investigation since May this year. May, July. On September 22, I personally addressed you with a mother's statement, where she already indicated her last name, except for the workers of Artek, the Ukrainian national deputy. By September 22nd, I had already received an answer from your deputy. For the second time or for the second time, you were asked to speak with your mother on October 7. And on October 13th, I was on a personal call to you, and on the same day, I brought a petition to protect the children that you did. So it's just a clarification that the prosecution knew.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u60	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u61	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u62	Well, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u63	Since September 22, we have known when the appeal was made. I have a question. I'm asking you to take this criminal case to the Attorney General's Office more than once, and give a legal assessment to the internal affairs officers, including the Minister of Internal Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u64	Thank you, Gregory Omelanovic, for asking. I would like to emphasize once again that the name of the national MPs, specifically the national MPs, was October 13 when you were at my private reception with your address. I'm telling you again. And what you call October 7 came to us on October 13th. And on October 13th, I had already informed the distinguished people's deputies of what had been done by the Attorney-General. With regard to the adoption of the case before the Attorney General's office. I would like to reiterate that tomorrow we are holding a meeting on this matter. I listen to all the people who are present, who have a bearing on this criminal case, and the matter will be resolved on the basis of the problems that have been claimed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u65	Cord Vitaly Terentiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u66	Please pass the word to Sergio Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u67	Sergey Vladislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u68	Dear Alexander Ivanovich! I was asked a question about a man who came out of a party, he said, because he doesn't want to be in one party with murderers and rapists. But it remains a faction because it is afraid to lose its mandate to continue to be responsible for everything that this person has done. Please tell me that Omelchenko made a statement a few years ago regarding crimes that were not finally verified by Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic, including rape. Did you give all the answers comprehensively? Are you selective in choosing some national deputies and not choosing others? [[B in m in s a l in]] I'd like Gregory Omelanovic to repeat his request to you, and you've given that answer in the end. If he can't do it, I can do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u69	Thank you. I can answer that. That's not what we're talking about. If that was before, it was called, as I think in 2004, I didn't work at the time, I don't know how it was decided. There will be a appeal -- we are obliged to consider it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u70	Thank you, Alexander Ivanovich. Please sit down, time is up. I invite you to speak with the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Lucenka Yuri Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u71	Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen! I want to make some general figures right away. During 2007 and 9 months of the current year, 536 criminal cases have been committed in relation to a total of 707 minors who have committed acts of misconduct under 156 articles. In the cases mentioned above, 469 persons were involved in criminal proceedings, Mr. People’s Deputy, who spoke of the inefficiency of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The other one. In fact, our conduct among these hundreds of cases is also criminalized 54-2742 because of the fact that juvenile delinquency is committed. And I want to take a brief look at the history of this case. Anyone interested in the truth in emotion would be asked to listen. So, on April 16, we received the first statement from the mother of the injured children, which indicated that her father touched different parts of the body, kissed and pinched. Mother refused to let the child be questioned. OHMATDIT provided evidence that there was no damage to the sexual organs. In this regard. Yes, and there was a father’s encounter statement, which said that it was solely about property issues in the course of the breakup of marriage and that, like every father, he smoothed, caressed, and so forth. In this regard, on April 24, the police decided to refuse a criminal case. I ask you to calm down and listen. On May 20, the prosecutor’s office revoked the decision and sent the materials for further inspection. I quote only what does not represent a service secret. But I would like to point out that those who say that seven months of the case has not been investigated should know that the first statement applied exclusively to household trifles that could not find their reflection in a criminal case. On May 15, a second, indeed, announcement came to our mother that her children had been a depraved father and other persons who had engaged in unnatural sexual relations with them for three years. She added acts of polygraph she did on the side with her lawyer, but there's an expert report on it that confirms what's supposed to be true. I'm saying it's not a procedural action. 26.05. Mother made an even more open statement, as well as a video of the children's performance in the video camera, in which they discussed the crime in detail. In this regard, the police, as in every criminal case, have sent children to be examined for forensic examination. Regrettably, the act of forensic expertise and one and the other children literally “no bodily harm has been detected”. In this connection alone, the police were unable to prosecute a criminal case. I can also confirm from the Attorney General that the police did not make sufficient inquiries into the case and find other possible evidence of guilt. 10.06. The Dniprovsky District Attorney's Office violated a criminal case that opened the way, not to the act, but to forensic forensic expertise. “ My Life Is Impartial, ” 10 / was sent to children for expertise, not an act of external examination, but an expert on forensic and medical expertise, which has determined what children have, I think, so let's say, was the interference of foreign hard objects in the body of children. 23.07 I personally received a request from the national deputy Lukas, on which I became familiar with the matter. In this regard, the matter became my personal control and was transferred from the district police department to the city police department. 27.07 experts have given us their conclusions. I will not quote them in view of the moral obstacles, but I reaffirm the foreign intervention of solid, stupid objects that other sexual organs may be. And it was also spent for several days, in connection with a criminal case, the removal of evidence, computers, cameras, and so forth. [[B in m in s a l in]] 3.08 A study of the case took place at the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, and there was an objectively correct identification of the gravity and the appropriate instructions. 14.08 There was a criminal case against the victim’s father, who was arrested in court and charged. 20.08 there was an interrogation of a son who confirmed that the father and other persons in Kiev and in the territory of Artek, as he claimed, and then found that it was a service territory that had nothing to do with the children's complex, raped him and his sister. 21.08 Children were recognized as likely suspects of Artek. 26.08 — The conclusion of the inquiry into the request of the Lukash People’s Deputy was the transfer to the Head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. 2.09 – In the case of the implementation of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, computer expertise, internet connections, works of Artek, the removal of their service documents and other necessary evidence in the Crimea Peninsula took place. 12.10 The case is required by the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine. 13.10 A statement was made by the member of the Party of the Regions concerning the involvement of the deputies, about which there was never a formal and informal statement made by those who followed up the investigation in seven months. 14.10 The Henprosecutor's Office has finally supported our concern for the search of suspected Arteka employees. Until then, the month lay there, about a month. On the 15th, a son and a daughter were interrogated who gave evidence of the rape of the father and other foreign persons in Kiev and in the territory of Artek. Also on this day, finally, we got a demonstration of the likely involvement of Ukrainian national deputies, which was the first time in seven months of investigation. In this connection, 16-17 took place in the Kyiv apartment, where the children may have been raped by their parents and other outsiders, including probably by the Ukrainian National Deputies. The following experiment did not confirm the rightness of a child who did not recognize an apartment. These and other differences between the evidence of those who are going through the case and the actual intelligence evidence allow the investigation to go three times. First. Rape was done by my father. The other one. Rape took place by the father and other adult males. Third. About the likely creation of artificial evidence to blackmail for the purpose of demanding and receiving material rewards. Once an open session has been opened, I report that in the last few days, we, the police, with full compliance with the CPC, have found that $2 million has been demanded by lawyers of a victim in the Ukrainian National Deputy of the BIT faction. I think that shows the cynical use of children's problems in political games by those who want to get their hats back, in the meantime, the Monomah hat. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u72	Sign up for questions, please. Larin Sergey Mikolayovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u73	Please pass the word to Chechtovo.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u74	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u75	Honourable Yuri Vitalevich, under article 112 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, where verification by members of the Supreme Council is necessary, should be investigated by the Office of the Prosecutor-General of Ukraine. If not, the court finds all the actions of the Ministry of Internal Affairs illegal. Question: “Why has the case of abuse of young children not yet been referred to the Office of the Attorney-General?” Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u76	Thank you for asking. I think you just got your answer from the U.K. Attorney General's Office. We don't decide who's in charge. We are now acting within our own jurisdiction, for the corresponding article on the depravity of minors who are charged with solely against the father of children is solely in militia jurisdiction. Children’s displays of a witness, from my point of view, are only the first step toward establishing the truth. If these evidences are confirmed, if confirmed by other evidence, and if such perpetrators are found by national MPs, it is likely that the Attorney General will make the right decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u77	Bondarenko Viktor Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u78	Please pass on Elena Lukash's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u79	Lukas Olenna Leonidina.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u80	Mr. Minister, I have indeed reported this crime to you in the summer. And you know, two things have rocked me the most: the first is the response of the Head of Dneprov's Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine to me that your father and I had a prophylactic talk on the legal subject, very touching; and the second thing that struck me most is that you personally answered the 5 channel correspondent about whether you were objectively investigating the case. This is why I have one human and one professional question. First, what would you do as a father to two children if something like this happened to your children? How would you react, and who would you blame? And who would you believe in that? And the second question is procedural. You know, the pre-trial period is two months. I told you about it in July, my mother reported it early in the spring. Please tell me what.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u81	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u82	Please tell me that seven months has prevented you and the authorities of the Ministry of the Interior from completing the pretrial investigation in this case?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u83	Thank you. I thought I was talking, maybe because of the noise you didn't hear. Mrs. Lukas, as a lawyer, please listen to every word. The first statement — about scratching, slapping and kissing a child — did not find its objective evidence of violence, because the children had not been questioned by the mother, no expertise existed at the time, and the matter really ended with the disciplining of a likely family scandal during the breakup of marriage. The second statement was extremely serious, you're right. This is the second statement that I just made, as I just said, 15.05 was extremely serious, and the police assigned an act of forensic expertise -- the only thing that she could do in this situation. The law of forensics has established that there are no bodily harm to children. Unfortunately, that is a fact, and today we need to establish the truthfulness of such an expertise. This will be clarified in the course of the investigation. But that's exactly what led up to another false refusal to commit a criminal offence, that's true. And only with the help of the city's attorney's office, which has a criminal case on its own, and it has grounds for that, have we been able to send children not for review, but for expertise, which is possible only in a criminal case. And only in this context did we find out that there was internal damage to children and that there was violence. Since then, this has coincided with your request, since then the matter has gone quickly and energetically. Since then, all the victims have been interviewed, all the potential contributors, and until October-month we were confident that by the end of the year this case would be in court. However, since the submission of the Party of the Regions, it has been revealed to him that he has been aware of information on the involvement of deputies, and it has been since October 13 that there has been a new phase: neither mother nor children nor deputies – no one has informed me of any evidence of MPs. On October 15, we received such procedural evidence. Since then, two national deputies have been questioned, and a third is scheduled for tomorrow. Since then, all necessary investigations have been carried out. Since then, there have been searches. Since then, there have been exceptions, and experts have been assigned. I am confident that this will result in a judgment for those who depraved children. If you asked the second part humanly, human answers. As a father, I swear before God and men that I will do my utmost to ensure that those who are responsible for such injuries to their children meet the strictest requirements of Ukrainian legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u84	Stojko Ivan Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u85	Thank you. Ivan Stojko, group “For Ukraine! ” Dear Yuri Vitaliovich, you know, it's impossible to listen calmly to what you've been saying, the Attorney General, as my father I'm addressing my father. Please tell me the opposition that the militias have been doing for almost six months, i.e. they've closed the case once, secondly, I wonder where they are now, and if you knew about it personally, and if they're being punished somehow. And one more question. As a minister, do you feel your responsibility for these matters, at least morally, really, as a father? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u86	Thank you. Mr. John, I don't think I'm going to repeat the third time what I told the experts. You'll probably read my answers and see that I'm right. If an act of expertise indicates that there is no bodily harm, it is not possible to break a criminal case. Well, unfortunately, it's legislation. You've accepted him, Mr. MP, here. However, today he is a suspect in prison, in solitary confinement, to be precise. Today, all who may have been there with him and raped the children have been questioned, and all necessary investigations are being conducted today. As for my feelings, I am guilty of everything that is happening in Ukraine, for every crime that has not been investigated. I'm carrying this burden, and I'm gonna carry as much as I'm allowed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u87	Sas Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u88	Please give the floor to the National Deputy Bodnar Olga.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u89	Bodnar Olga Borisovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u90	Olga Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u91	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Mrs. Olga. The departmental investigation of the members of the Attorney General's Office's initiative has been commissioned. Of course, there will be severe penalties for shortcomings in the case. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u92	Thank you. I have a few questions. First. Look, a polygraph. Will this polygraph be carried out by professionals, specialized agencies? Because it's a very big question. Why isn't there another version: if the rape took place, why don't you consider the version that it might not be the father and not the suspects that are coming now? 30,000 movies, there, and all that porn. Were these children depicted there or were they other children? And one last question. How could children recognize among 450 photographs 3 individuals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u93	The only thing I have to say is that the polygraph has a great legend, but actually the polygraph shows aren't the things that lead to the accusation. It's just consultative, I'd say, advisory materials that take into account investigation. This polygraph was conducted without a police force, exclusively a mother, a lawyer, a teacher, and children. We took him as counseling materials, as consulting materials. I'm not sure the investigation will decide on the polygraph, but I'm not ruling it out. I'm not in charge of the investigation, I have no authority, no grounds. This will be decided solely by an investigator. As for how the kids recognized who they recognized and everything else, it's the secret of the investigation, and I'm certainly not going to tell you. But once again, some things during interrogations, as well as the lack of what was claimed and what was actually claimed, lead to an investigation into the need to consider a third version: the artificial creation of evidence for profit. I say again, we were two days ago last night and last night there was a contact between the injured party's lawyers, who were fixed on audio and video, in.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u94	Complete your answer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u95	with strict compliance with the Code of Criminal Procedure, in order for children to stop recognizing national MPs. This fact is also there, and I think it has to be known to society, so that this matter will eventually cease to be commented on by politicians. It's a matter of investigation, not of politicians, and it's enough to use children.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u96	Sergey Vladislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u97	Please pass the word Zabzaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u98	Please, Roman Omelanovic Zabzaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u99	Yuri Vitaliovich, do we understand you correctly? Yuri Vitaliyovich, did we rightly understand that, indeed, after seven months of handling the case, perhaps figures on the matter appeared to be representatives of a person who had a bearing on the Supreme Council? And how do you think there was a statement made by individual national deputies based on the facts, perhaps the facts of the investigation? And you've stated that you've seen the fact that you're demanding or blackmailing individual people's deputies for $2 million. What is then foreseen in line with legislation?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u100	Thank you. I will repeat that in the course of the seven-month investigation of this case, we had an indication of the father, of other adults who worked in Artek and others, but never mentioned the national deputies by name or post. On October 12, the case was required for a probe in the Henprocurator’s Office, on October 13, the People’s Deputy of the Party of the Regions, and on October 13, the National Deputy of the BUT Party announced the involvement of the deputies. 14 My mother gave me a show at the D.A.'s office, as far as I can tell, and 15 kids showed the joint group to the D.A.'s group, who confirmed these shows and carried out the apprehension. It's just the first step towards establishing a truth, no matter what it is. From my point of view, today we can only talk about the involvement of deputies as one of the versions of the ongoing investigation. The more she was, the more she was, me personally, I'm going to do it again, and I'm not hiding it, and I'm wondering why it's only seven months later on the day of the start of the campaign, not from the mouth of the victims, but from the mouth of the national MPs who have never been interested, at least one of these party regions is going through this. With regard to demands, as with all requirements, it provides for punishment if appropriate terms are imposed. The investigation will show again, we've fixed this fact, I'm talking about it, because to understand this, there's political intrigue going on. May I further inform you that, for example, the national deputy Sovkovic in his office conducted a survey of the head of the Dnieprovski Paradise Administration, requiring a demonstration of Lucenk, Jarem, or BIT, as they paid for the investigation to be carried out. Around this, the political process begins. And I claim these facts only for one reason, to stop them and to give them to the investigation, to the police and to the prosecutor's office, to bring the matter to a legal conclusion, not a political conclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u101	Dear Yuri Vitaliovich! In view of the fact that you are allowing yourself to make incorrect statements, I will have to give the floor to the Ukrainian national deputies of the surnames you call in the hall. So I'd like to ask you, please, if you have the answers to be correct. Please, the following question is asked by Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u102	Dear Yuri Vitaliovich! I personally can't believe I don't want to believe that there are bastards in our room, as Teryochin's colleagues have said, quite correctly, who have defamed not only themselves but the whole Supreme Council, but, among other things, there is an even higher judge among us, if this is really a small place, then the Lord God will punish them. I want to ask you something. Yuri Vitaliovich, it's not the first time you've reported here as a minister, I know how much you love your job, but your emotional, unbalanced, insufferableness is doing you a lousy favor standing here on the stand. Please tell me you've been investigating for seven months. What are you doing here? You're trying to protect your subjects for that fiber, you're saying there was a fiber, but at the same time, it had something to do with that, that's why, that's why. I have my first question. Did you personally make any conclusions about what happened as a minister? That's the first one. And the second. Or did it give rise to the names of these deputies that your subordinates did not investigate the case?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u103	I want to tell you this. In this case here, you're asking what I'm doing, I'm coming to your challenge, and I'm giving you the information that you want to hear and that I can provide. There is no lie in my speech. On the other hand, I reiterate that the police in the first instance, in my view, are not guilty, in my second opinion, of not taking all the necessary steps to actively investigate the case. The official investigation initiated by the Henprosecutor's Office will do so. As far as failure or success is concerned, you also say in the district, we initiated the law, but it was not accepted. There are objective things, and they are subjective, all who have sabotaged or refused to investigate the case will be severely punished. This will be the result of an official investigation initiated by the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine. With regard to the involvement of individuals or others, I would like to assure you once again that there can be no doubt about the objectivity of the investigation. At least because there are prosecutors working in a joint group, and there are high-ranking prosecutors and the police, and the highest-ranking ones here, both experts and educators, and the victim's mother. At this point, it took time and was desirable to keep quiet so that the matter could be investigated objectively and quickly. Unfortunately, there will be no second, but the matter is moving objectively.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u104	Stoyan Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u105	Mr. Lucenko, as you know how to catch criminals, the whole of Ukraine saw that week, instead of Lodzinski, you caught the head of the Ukrainian President's press office. But I have another question about your responsibility and your integrity. Two years ago, from the rostrum where you are standing, you told us about the Wheeler's case about the legs, hands, planes and much more, and said: “I swear if this case is falsified, the guilty will be punished and I will resign.” The court has proved that this case has been falsified and has obliged you to apologize under Kolesnikov. I have an address for you. If you are a man, if you have the honor, use this rostrum, apologize to Kolosnikov, our colleague, and resign we will be grateful for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u106	Dear National Deputies! Don't doubt that as soon as there's a proper court decision, I'll do it because I've never been afraid to apologize. The case is in the Supreme Court of Ukraine. As soon as I made the decision, I was never afraid to apologize, for I am a living person who makes mistakes and knows how to admit his mistakes. Few things I can say are that in our living conditions, when we meet Mr. Kolosnikov, we have long explained our relationship, including his apology on behalf of the service. Now, about my work. Yeah, I know how to work. I'm informing you, he was detained today when he received a bribe from the head of the constituency of the Party of Regions in the Shrine district of Kiev and was arrested. (
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u107	Yuri Vitaliyovich, do you set your party during detention?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u108	No, it's not. After the national MPs begin to demand release.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u109	I think you should know about the actions you're doing in the rostrum, you're the minister of internal affairs. And if I can also personally say that when I had an adventure, you asked me what party the victim was in. Please don't involve the party in the criminal investigation. Mr. Sergey Grigorovich, ask a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u110	Thank you for asking. Thank you for being able to ask questions. I want to. Jaroslav Suhi, please let me ask you a question. I want to ask you as the ex-investigative officer who was investigating such a category of cases in the prosecutor's office. Unfortunately, we changed the subject and gave it to internal affairs. I was against it. And that's why I'm telling those deputies why the prosecution can't investigate these cases right now, and they're in another case. So I have three short questions. First question. Since August 17, two months have passed. Will these terms of criminal investigation continue, and at what time will they be completed? Then. Disclosure of investigations is the same criminal case that internal affairs should be violated. May I? Didn't I get a chance to finish the question, like, 20 seconds?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u111	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u112	Thank you. Because, God forbid, if these deputies and their families have to “bath up, ” then, God forbid, those deputies who are now accused without the judgment of these people, how are these women and children going to work and learn? Who will then “wash away ” from this? So I ask you, Yuri Vitaliovich, to file a criminal case for the disclosure of the investigation. And the last. If there's a $2 million demand, is there a criminal offence, or is there a detained person who demanded this $2 million? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u113	Thank you. First. The matter has continued, and the proper trouble has been satisfied. The other one. Infringement of a criminal investigation case is excluded from the prosecution's jurisdiction, although the issue can be investigated and investigated in an existing criminal case. I'll be honest with you. Both we and prosecutors consider it necessary to focus primarily on the investigation of the case objectively. Although I don't rule out that Mr. Terrohin's attorney's office can violate the facts and investigate where the leak that has disgraced both Ukraine and the individual national MPs who consider themselves to be irrelevant. And the last. The house of bribes took place two days before my performance. If they don't hear, maybe it's happening right now. We are waiting for reports of people being detained and responding to current legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u114	Teeth Valentin Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u115	Yuri Vitalevich, please listen to me. Yuri Vitalevich, People's Deputy of Teeth, I'm here. Yuri Vitalevich, I think it was quite fair in the hall that the names of the people's deputies were named only seven months after the start of the investigation. And that's what you said right, that makes you think it's more political order and political provocation. You said in your report that the investigation removed a huge number of stories, including computers, videos, pornographic films, and so on. Without disclosing the secret of the investigation, you will answer one question: The investigation today has video films, where the people's deputies are filmed in these ugly scenes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u116	I have no right to divulge details of the investigation, only to say that all images of a pornographic nature contain exclusively children, victims, but there are no perpetrators.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u117	Please, have a seat. Replica is Sovkovic Vladimir Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u118	Soviet Volodymyr Leonidovich. Yuri Vitaliovich, don't run. Yuri Vitaliyovich accused me of questioning the head of Dniprovsky’s district ministry. First. He was brought to me by the national MP, Smith, and we both spoke to him. That's different. He excused himself for being ashamed to close these cases, and the chief of staff closed the cases. And the second time, despite the fact that there was an examination, and the hypertrophy of organs was written, Yuri Vitaliyovich is telling the very lie that the examination of the medical examiner showed nothing. [[He was told by his subordinates that it would be easier for him to lie here from the rostrum.]] And the second time he closed up. Although it was denied in the criminal case to sign off on the Chief of the Railroad himself. I ask him: “Please tell me why you didn’t sign it yourself. You were ashamed whether someone called you or someone spoke.” He says: “For the first time Bagirov came to the accused, who was in prison, talking to him, they made a deal with him, and he gave the command to the chief of the department. And the other one.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u119	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u120	And the second one was called by high-ranking officials.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u121	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u122	And the second says, “Yes, there was indeed a call from a high official, I cannot call.” And Yuri Vitaliyovich is probably afraid that he was the one who called him or someone called him. And that's why he started yelling at my family today. That's the first one. The other one. Yuri Vitaliyovich, the first to break the law and say that the children were adopted, said this on October 14. And on this point, we need to open a criminal case against the minister and drive him to the motherfuckin' second time out of work. [[Applause]] [[From the hall.]] Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u123	Dear colleagues! Honorable colleagues are called the name of the national MP, Smituch. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, in view of what Mr. Lucenko called the family Sovkovic, I would like to explain some of the situations. Indeed, when the circumstances became known that any one of the deputies could be involved in the matter, of course, I have a full parliamentary right to do so on a personal initiative, I contacted the head of the Paradise Department to talk to him cleanly, to talk to him and to find out for myself whether there was a reason for the accusation or not, appropriate procedural action was taken there that corresponded to the full investigation or not. And we really did. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. There was no matter. But it was, in this interview, that Mr. Stankewicz, who is the head of the district department, was confirmed that the "known" lawyer of Bagirov, yes, the defendant had previously come to the head of the rail division and suggested that he should.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u125	Thank you for the information. Dear colleagues, I would also like to address Yuri Vitaliyovich right now, who has just called Ignatta Sergey Mihajlovich, head of the constituency of the Voivodship District of Kiev Regional Party, who is working in his workplace and very surprised by such information as the minister has said.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u126	I'm inviting you to the show.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u127	I can confirm that the deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u128	The authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights, Karpachov Nina Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u129	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! Dear compatriots! Thank you for being able to come forward today at my personal request. As authorized by human rights, I do not cease to repeat that human rights begin with the rights of the child. Let me therefore express my position as an ombudsman in terms of international law and national legislation on State action to deal with such a disgraceful phenomenon as child sexual exploitation, as well as a position to investigate the protection of two young children. Unfortunately, the matter that became the subject of Parliament’s consideration is not alone in Ukraine. As evidenced by the monitoring of the Commissioner for Human Rights, the number of convicted persons for crimes against sexual freedom and the sexual integrity of the victim is 3,130 in the last five years. Please pay attention to the table presented to you. It's a specific statistic. The information indicates that the victims are far more likely to suffer, and add the latentity of this type of crime. And for each of these crimes, the fate of a particular child, her future, for which we are all responsible together. Public accusations against specific individuals, politicians, journalists have challenged the principle of the rule of law in Ukraine and, above all, the presumption of innocence, the non-disclosure of the secret of pretrial investigation and the secret of adoption. The confidential information about a person is cynically distributed by individual media journalists, as well as by officials, caused a state of moral-psychological shock in society. Since then, the whole society, which has been directly involved in these events, has reached an extreme limit. One more step -- and the point of non-return can become reality. In 92 C.E. and then in May 2008, the plenary of the Supreme Court of Ukraine in its judgement on the case of sexual offences and sexual intrusiveness, drew attention to the inadmissibility of naturalization of the description. That is, the excessive detail of the indictment and the judgment of the circumstances of the crime committed, which makes it impossible for the public to declare it, or even subject to revocation as a person who degrades the dignity of the victim. Understandably, if such a practice is unacceptable in court, it is all the more unacceptable in public discussions, in the media, including officials. By exercising parliamentary control over the observance of human rights and responding within the limits of the law to appeal in July this year to the mother of the victims, the injured children, the complaint, by the way, referred to the depravity of the minor fathers, the Authorized has been taken over, while retaining confidential information, as well as information about the personal life of the applicant and other persons involved in the application, in accordance with article 14 of the Human Rights Commissioner Act. In view of the mother’s complaint that she had suffered since 4 months from police traffic, I was given an open hearing and an appeal to the prosecutor of the Dniprov district of Kiev, who was then overseeing the criminal investigation that was being committed at the time of the delinquency of minors. On August 14, a criminal case was committed against the father of the injured children. Later, during my conduct, the father of two children after his arrest addressed the Human Rights Commissioner for the protection of his rights and the provision of an impartial investigation. He also, by the way, complained of delaying the pretrial investigation by the Chief Investigation Authority of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, noting that, within two months of his arrest, he had only called the investigator twice for investigation. During the course of the Commissioner's conduct, it was established that no forensic and psychological expertise had yet been carried out in the case of the suspect, which should have been done first. So I have a question about the respectable Yuri Vitaliovich: “Why has this not been done so far, and why is this hindering the investigation itself? ” These are basic things for every investigator and how the minister should know that. During a visit to the Lukian Siso, it was found that speculation about his safety, at least to this day, is unfounded. In my address to the Minister of Internal Affairs and the Attorney General of Ukraine, I have requested that I inform you what measures are being taken to investigate the case in a comprehensive and objective manner, to establish and bring to justice the criminal responsibility of those involved in this disgraceful fact. And my last appeal to the Attorney General was to request that the case be taken into account in view of its resonance and the danger of children and mothers to the conduct of the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office for the involvement of Ukrainian security professionals. [[I'm just repeating it from this rostrum.]] In addition, I have asked international organizations, particularly the UNICEF representative in Ukraine, for the possibility of sheltering child victims outside Ukraine if necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, let me draw your attention to the European Convention on the Protection of Children from Sexual Exploitation and Depravity signed by Ukraine in 2007, which introduces high standards for the protection of child victims of sexual crime. The specified international act provides for maximum consideration of the criminal conduct and pre-trial examination of the interests of the child victim and child witness, the protection of their private lives, confidentiality and the prevention of the public dissemination of any information that could lead to the establishment of their person. This fully corresponds to article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights and article 16 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. That is why I am requesting from this rostrum to the President of Ukraine, the people's deputies of Ukraine to consider immediately the ratification of the stated convention of the Council of Europe. At the same time, I am requesting the Cabinet of Ministers to develop and implement measures for the psychological, physical and social rehabilitation of children who have become victims of sexual crime. I'd like to focus on Internet paedophilia. According to the U.N., this disgraceful phenomenon is turning at a terrible rate around the world. Over 75 percent of all child pornography is spread on the Internet. The number of pedophiles permanently connected to the Internet is about 750,000, and every year two million children are involved in pornography. In Europe, pedophilia has reached epidemic proportions. Unfortunately, Ukraine is recognized as one of the centers of pornographic production. The Ukrainian market for child pornography is estimated at $100 million a year, according to Interpol. According to UN experts, the abolition of visas for tourists from most Western countries of Ukraine is increasingly becoming one of the main areas of sex tourism that our children are increasingly victims of. [[I'm paying attention to you, dear nationals!]] I am convinced that the political forces of our country, the whole society, must unite to overcome this shameful phenomenon. At an international conference on the occasion of the 20th anniversary of the adoption of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, I suggested that national laws of the participating countries should be implemented with regard to criminal liability, criminal liability of clients of sexual services. [[Attention!]] This, by the way, is done in the legislation of Sweden and Norway. We have to admit that the pernicious phenomena of child trafficking, child pornography, prostitution, paedophilia are the brutal consequences of a market economy that has turned everything into a commodity. This has particularly been exacerbated by the global economic and financial crisis, rising social inequality, discrimination, poverty and poverty. I think it's necessary for the conclusion to make the following proposals. First. To create a temporary commission of inquiry -- I'm calling your attention to formulation -- a temporary commission of inquiry to combat sexual crimes against children. As authorized, I am ready to cooperate with such a commission. The other one. I was speaking in writing, today we spoke to Alexander Ivanovich again during a personal meeting earlier, and I went to the Attorney General's Office and again, within his authority to determine the cases of the depravity of two minor children by the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine again with the involvement of the experts of the BSS. Third. Make changes to national legislation on the criminal responsibility of clients for the use of sex services, particularly for children, viewing this as a burdensome responsibility of the situation, as well as the use of child pornography on the Internet. Four. Establish the responsibility of Internet viewing, including criminal responsibility, for the spread of pornographic products, while obliging Internet service providers to block websites depicting children who are sexually exploited. Fifth. In view of the transnational nature of these crimes, I consider it necessary to impose a ban on persons who have committed sexual crimes in Ukraine. Honorable National Deputies, distinguished compatriots! I hope that you share my position, that there are no foreign children, nor are there any other people's sorrows. The fate of children, the protection of their rights, the protection of their human dignity is the main thing that must unite us all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u130	Dear colleagues, the information is complete. You have on your hands this morning a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the national deputy Paul Kostenk. [[No.5240]] The Chief Legal Office has made several proposals here to clarify the wording, but before we make that clear, I would like to see this project now as a basis, if there is no objection. Is there no objection? I'm voting on the adoption as a basis of the draft Ordinance establishing the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the facts surrounding the allegations of child abuse at the International Children's Centre, Artek. Please vote. [[17:45:57]] For 432 On the basis of the draft, the decision was adopted. Dear colleagues! So there are a few things that we need to fix. First. In accordance with article 156 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, we should use the term “adolescents” rather than children. Is there no objection to changing that word? None. The other one. We now do not have a valid Law on the Temporary Investigation Commissions and the Special Temporary Investigation Commissions, the Temporary Special Commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Therefore, it is obvious that this law should be removed because it is defined as unconstitutional in general. The other one. In the second paragraph of this draft decision, the word “set” should be added. It is now written in this way: “Temporary investigator of the commission to investigate circumstances regarding the appearance of allegations of child abuse at the International Children’s Centre, Artek. continues the word “correspondence of these accusations. The fact is that the word “conformity” needs to be established, because the commission has to do something. The next proposal concerns personnel changes already. Instead of the candidature of Pope John Vasilovich of the Party of Regions, the candidate for the People's Deputy Korža Viktor Petrovich is proposed. And please, even if there are suggestions and clarifications. We're gonna have a lot of details, aren't we? Please, Zarubinsky Oleg Aleksandrovich, then Katerina Samojlik.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u131	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. You know, there's no objection to creating this committee. We voted in the first, and we will vote in general, in the second reading. But, Alexander Volodymyrovich, I would like to address you. Look, we don't have a name here. You have a name where this matter is tied to the International Children's Camp Artek. Do you understand what we're doing? It's like we're calling the whole public, and we're telling people that this is about Artek. Everyone understands that "Artek" is nowhere to be found. I'm just suggesting that we approach the name of this committee more wisely. Because we're going to have bad consequences. We're going to be creating a commission of apriors for some brand, you know. You can't do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u132	I support you. It was a proposal from the author of the project, so I read it. The author of the project agrees that there is no objection to removing the mention of “Artec”? Please, Catherine Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u133	Dear Chairman! I mean, I'm just going to repeat what my colleague Zarubinsky said, I don't have to tie myself to an international camp called Artek, and the more that was outside the camp, if and when they prove it, it was inside the hotel. This is the first time. And secondly, we heard today that this was happening as if it was happening not only in Crimea but also in Kiev. Therefore, throughout the text, apart from the name, what the name itself is, but also throughout the text, we need to clear up the word related to the international Children's Centre “Artec”. That would be wise even in the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u134	There are still proposals, please, for the national MP, Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u135	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! You have heard the statement of the Commissioner for Human Rights of Karpachev regarding his proposal to create a standing commission of inquiry on such a category of cases. I think we can share these two concepts. So on a case-by-case basis, let this commission work, we'll now vote it final, and then on the next proposal, if you don't mind, Mrs. Karpachev, we'll put it in place separately to form a composition of this commission from people who will be able to assist you professionally in this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u136	Do you still have any comments or suggestions before the draft decision? If not, I'll read it now. Kostenko Paul Ivanovich, author of the proposal. Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u137	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. I only have questions about the personnel changes you've been proposing.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u138	I didn't offer it. It's a faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u139	Or a faction, according to the Rules, may not be a national MP in two commissions, and your proposal referred to the name and national deputy who is already a member of the commission. If it is completed, there is no objection, but this should be confirmed by the regulatory committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u140	Please, the chairman of the regulatory committee of Efraem, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u141	Why did we change because Ivan Vasilevich Popescu was involved in PARE and would be on mission abroad at that time, he would not be able to participate physically in the commission. With regard to the commission to replace another representative to the commission, we have a report on the Commission, which has already been submitted to close the work of the Commission. The nuances are therefore clear here on the Rules on what else should be submitted, but in fact the MP will no longer be involved in the work of the Commission. We therefore considered it possible to include him as a person who was not indifferent to the soul in the commission for work. We'd like to ask our colleagues to support us. With regard to the establishment of a commission at all, if we begin to speak under the Rules, your distinguished colleagues have registered this commission, I can tell you that it is not fully written in accordance with the Rules. From that point of view, it cannot be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u142	No more suggestions. I'll read it with your permission now, which one. It's basically fixed. A decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine concerning the establishment of an interim commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of situations related to the accusation of the perversion of minors. In accordance with the third part of article 89 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 87 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine stipulates: To form a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters related to the charges of depraved minors. Second item. A temporary commission of inquiry to investigate the circumstances surrounding the appearance of allegations of juvenile depravity, to establish the appropriateness of these charges as an objective fact. Third. To determine that the number of members of the interim commission of inquiry is five national deputies in Ukraine. As a result of providing such representation, one representative at a time from each of the MPs. Four. Select the head of the interim commission of inquiry of the Ukrainian National Deputy Samuelka Catherine Seminovna. Fifth. To be elected as a temporary commission of inquiry by such national deputies of Ukraine: Korž Viktor Petrovich, Bobilova Alexandre Fadiyovich, Tereshuk Sergey Mikolaiovich. The co-consul of Eugene Ivanovich, I'm sorry. Six. Material, technical, personnel, information and organizational provision of a temporary commission of inquiry to place on the Supreme Council of Ukraine's apparatus. Seven. To determine the duration of the interim commission of inquiry three months from the date of adoption of the decision. A report by the interim commission of inquiry on the work accomplished to be heard at a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine no later than a month after the adoption of this decree. So we have a proposal here that there should be another substitute for the head among the five, and then we will remove Suslov Eugene Ivanovich from the commission and from paragraph four, where we “take Samuel Catherine’s head” and add: “Select the deputy head of Suslov Eugene Ivanovich”. Is there no objection? None. In this way, the draft Decree No. 5240 deals with the vote on adoption as a whole. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:55:20]] For 418 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! We completed the information and made the decision. Dear colleagues! We now have a chapter that we need to consider today to make decisions on the issues under discussion. The evening plenary session continues for 15 minutes. We have the next draft on which a decision is to be adopted, which is the Ukraine Act on amending the Ukrainian Budget Code of 20 July 2009. [[New edition of President of Ukraine's proposal]] This issue was discussed at an extraordinary plenary meeting held on September 10, this year. But I'm sorry, September 4th of this year. And it was interrupted indefinitely, without making the right decision. This morning at the morning plenary meeting, a proposal was made by national deputy Soboljeva Sergio Vladislavovich to move the decision from this issue to a later date. I'm putting the people's deputy Soboljev to a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:56:58]] For-187 The decision is not taken. So I invite you to the rostrum of Eugene Ivanovich Kirilczuk, we'll make a decision. Since the question has been considered, Eugène Ivanovich, please consider just what has changed since the consideration of the matter, and what is the proposal of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u143	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, the conclusions of the Committee on Budget Issues are proposed and returned for reconsideration by the Supreme Council on 20 July of this year. [[on the President's proposals for amendments to the Ukrainian Budget Code]] In general, the President made 87 proposals to the rules of this law and provided appropriate reasons for them that were presented to you. All of these 87 proposals were drafted into specific paragraphs and into specific articles of the codex right on the budget committee. So I'm going to stand in the position of the Committee on Budget Issues, which is set out in the comparative table and distributed. The Budget Committee at its meeting on 9 September 2009 reviewed the President's proposals for amendments to the Ukrainian Budget Code, based on the conclusions of the Supreme Council Head on 24 July 2009 of the relevant working group. [[Number 370]] Of the 87 proposals made by the President, the committee proposes to take 14 proposals into account, three of them with a clarification. That is, to exclude the rule on the right of the Cabinet of Ministers to determine the creditor in the course of government borrowing, is the sixth sentence, to exclude the rule of acceptance with the Committee on Budget Affairs of the transfer of budgetary allocations from one chief budget manager to another principal if individual powers are delegated to the other principal in accordance with legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u144	Thank you. Thank you, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u145	I'll finish with the question. In conclusion, the committee decided to support the Committee’s decision on budget issues, where proposals on the rights of the Court of Auditors were expanded. In the event of non-admission of a piecemeal law with the President's proposals for more than 300 votes, the Supreme Council head should be asked: according to the rule of part eight of article 35 of the Rules, according to which the decision of the Supreme Council, after reconsideration, may not be accepted, the law may be referred to the committee. This is exactly how I propose to put this question to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u146	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the President's proposals. First proposal from the President of Ukraine. The committee recommends a rejection. I'm voting on the President of Ukraine's first proposal. I'd like to make up my mind. [[18:01:13]] For the 15th. The decision is not taken. The offer is not supported. The president's second proposal is for a vote. Please make up your mind, the committee is offering to reject. [[18:01:37]] For the 15th. The decision is not taken. The offer is not supported. The President's third proposal is for a vote. I'd like to make up my mind. Number three, please take the table. [[18:02:00]] For-38 The decision is not taken. The President's proposal is not supported. Dear National Deputies! Please. I understand the wish that this issue should not be addressed right now. But we have the Constitution of Ukraine, we have the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council. All proposals by the President of Ukraine will be put to the vote, all of them. In line with the decision that will be taken if there is no support after this, the issue of overcoming the veto will be asked. If the veto is not overrun, the bill will be rejected. The President of the Supreme Council's proposals cannot be further worked out. Proposal No. 4 of the President of Ukraine. The committee's proposing a rejection. I'd like to make up my mind. [[18:02:58]] For-24 The offer is not supported. Proposal No. 5 of the President of Ukraine. The committee's proposing a rejection. I'd like to make up my mind. [[18:03:21]] For-24 The decision is not taken. Next proposal by President of Ukraine number 6. The committee suggests that we take it into account. I repeat, the procedure laid down in the Constitution and the Rules. Please take your seat and work. President of Ukraine's sixth proposal. The committee suggests that we take it into account. National deputies of Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u147	There's no objection.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u148	Dear colleagues, I want to say again, and you're asking who represents the President of Ukraine? This question is addressed in full in the extraplenary plenary session. I ask that everything within the limits of the Rules be endured. But I ask you not to insist on going outside the Rules. President of Ukraine's sixth proposal. The committee suggests that we take it into account. A vote is taken on proposal number six. [[18:04:29]] For-53 The offer is not supported. Proposal No. 7 of the President of Ukraine. The committee's proposing a rejection. People's deputies are requested to identify themselves. [[18:04:53]] For-29 The President's proposal is not supported. Proposal No. 8 of the President of Ukraine. The committee recommends a rejection. I'm betting on vote number eight. [[18:05:21]] For-52 The President's proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u149	The 9th and 10th Committee are asking for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u150	9th proposal by the President of Ukraine. The committee suggests that we take it into account. A vote is taken on proposal number nine by the President of Ukraine. I'd like to make up my mind. [[18:05:52]] For 218. The decision is not taken. Proposal number 10 of the President of Ukraine. The committee recommends that we consider it. People's deputies please identify themselves. [[18:06:19]] For 214 The offer is not supported. Proposal No. 11 of the President of Ukraine. The committee recommends a rejection. I'd like to make a statement. [[18:06:43]] For-34 The offer is not supported. Proposal number 12 of the President of Ukraine. The committee's proposing a rejection. I'd like to make a statement. [[18:07:05]] For-30 The offer is not supported. Proposal No. 13 of the President of Ukraine. The committee's proposing a rejection. I'd like to make a statement. [[18:07:27]] For-33 The offer is not supported. Please, by the factions. Region Party – 0, “Club of Timoshenko” – 2, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 31, Communists – 0, “Club of Lithuania” – 0, “Afterfractional” - 0. Presidential proposal number 14. The committee suggests rejecting the National Deputies' request to be identified. [[18:08:00]] For-30 The proposal by the President of Ukraine is not supported. The factions? Please. Region Party – 0, “Club of Timoshenko” – 2, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 28, Communists – 0, “Club of Lithuania” – 0, “Afterfractional” – 0. President's next proposal, number 15. The committee suggests that we take it into account. People's deputies please identify themselves. [[18:08:39]] For 210 The decision is not taken. The President's proposal is not supported. 16 The President of Ukraine's proposal. The committee suggests that we take it into account. I'd like you to identify yourself. [[18:09:06]] For 205 The President's proposal is not supported. 17 The President's proposal is for a vote. The committee's offering to stoop. [[18:09:30]] For-46 The President's proposal is not supported. The factions, please. Region Party - 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 15, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense - 30, Communists - 0, Litvina Block - 1, non-fractional - 0. 18th president's proposal, the committee proposes to reject. I'd like to make a statement. [[18:10:06]] For-34 The President's proposal is not supported. 19th president's proposal, the committee's proposing a rejection. I'd like to make a statement. [[18:10:27]] For the 18th. The offer is not supported. The president's 20th proposal, the committee recommends a rejection. People's deputies please identify themselves. [[18:10:48]] For-33 The offer is not supported. 21th Presidential proposal. The committee's proposing a rejection. I'd like to make up my mind. [[18:11:10]] For-22. The offer is not supported. 22 The President of Ukraine's proposal. The committee's proposing a rejection. I'd like to make up my mind. [[18:11:30]] For-27 The offer is not supported. 23 The committee's proposal by the President of Ukraine is to reject, please be determined. [[18:11:51]] For-24 The offer is not supported. The factions, please. Region Party - 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 2, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense - 22, Communists - 0, Litvina Block - 0, non-fractional - 0. 24 Presidential proposals. The committee's proposing a rejection. [[18:12:23]] For-22. The offer is not supported. 25th proposal by the President of Ukraine. 25th proposal by the President of Ukraine. The committee's proposing a rejection. [[6:12:41]] For-23 Please, by the factions. Not supported. Region Party – 0, “Club of Timoshenko” – 4, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 19, Communists, “Clocus of Lithuania”, non-fractional – 0. 26 offers. The committee's proposing a rejection. [[18:13:09]] For-23 The offer is not supported. Please, by the factions. Party of Regions, Communists, “Block of Lithuania”, non-fractional – 0, “Block of July Timoshenko” – 1, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” – 22. 27th proposal by the President of Ukraine. The committee's proposing a rejection.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u151	The 28th has to be supported. [[18:13:42]] For-24
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u152	The proposal is not supported. 28th proposal by the President of Ukraine. The committee suggests that we take it into account. Please identify yourself. [[18:14:03]] For-53 The offer is not supported. The factions, please. Region Party - 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 32, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense - 19, Communists - 0, Litvina Block - 2, non-fractional - 0. 29th proposal by the President of Ukraine. The committee's proposing a rejection. I'd like to make a statement. [[18:14:36]] For-27 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block -4, Our Ukraine-People's Self-Defense 23, Communist 0, Litvina Block 0, non-fractional 0. 30th proposal by the President of Ukraine. The committee's proposing a rejection. [[18:15:08]] For-26 The decision is not taken. The offer is not supported. Dear colleagues! The time for the plenary meeting of the evening is up. I have a question. Is there a desire on the part of the Ukrainian national deputies for us to conclude our consideration of this issue today?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-20-m1.u153	Is it? You don't? There are different points of view. I am voting on the proposal to continue the plenary session until the issue is closed. Please identify yourself. [[18:15:53]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. I declare the evening plenary session closed.
