ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:57]] There were 431 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of our colleagues, national deputies: Sigala Evgen Jakovic and Stretovich Vladimir Mikolaiovich. [[Applause]] Let us welcome and wish for the success of all things in good health. Dear colleagues, information on our plenary work from 12 to 15 May 2009: two plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine took place, four issues of agenda. As a result of the review, one law and 41 decrees have been passed and are sent to the relevant state institutions for 65 parliamentary inquiries. Dear National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have 30 minutes to deliver statements by authorized factions with statements, reports, appeals, and so forth. I'd like the factions to sign up for the performance. There's a recording of the performance. Yes, Chechetov Mikhailo Vasilovich. Please, Mikhail Vasilovich. Mikola Janović Azarov, please. Next is Mikola Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I have two news for you: one is good and one is bad. I'll start with a good one. There are some signs of stabilizing the world's economic situation. Unfortunately, the good news for us is coming to an end. As far as bad news is concerned. Even at this turn of events, unfortunately, Ukraine and its Government not only proved unprepared but unfortunately exacerbated the situation by their actions. The standard of living of the population falls from day to day. In March 2009, the average wage was reduced by 183 bracelets. Health and social protection workers received less wages for 196 bracelets than they should have received. Education is 184 bracelets. Every fifth employee in March received wages below the actual subsistence minimum. One million people work part-time. Another 519 were on so-called voluntary leave. The least protected categories of citizens whose income is directly dependent on budgetary payments suffer. The Government of Timoshenko fails to pay every pensioner between 200 and 300 grevens a month, and every budget worker between 850 and 1,000 grevens a month. Despite such underpaid wages, debt continues to grow. As a result, purchasing capacity and consumer activity have decreased significantly. People have to save primarily on food, rest, clothing, medicine, medical services. Industrial data showed that production fell by almost 5 per cent in April. The most catastrophic situation in a machine building, where the fall is almost twice. As a result of the inactivity of the Government, agricultural production and processing are falling. The lack of domestic production is covered by imports. Consider: In the first quarter of the year, meat and food was introduced to Ukraine 10 times more than in the same period. However, no cash has been allocated to the domestic producer from the budget. The budget is implemented manually. Within 4 months, no one was spent on 140 budget programmes, such as the eradication of the tuberculosis and AIDS epidemic, centralized measures for the treatment of diabetes mellitus, and so on. The Government's statement on the implementation of the income part of the budget is a gross deception. The budget is charged with adjustments, manipulations, enrollment in the common special fund and printing press. I'll just give you a few figures. Compared to last year's income -- despite 30 per cent inflation -- budget income declined by 5.2 billion. The high rate of consumer price growth depreciates the wages and labour savings of our citizens - and consequently reduces their standard of living. Under our pressure, the National Bank has finally abolished the moratorium on return of deposits, but it has done so, in fact, that our citizens do not know whether this decision has finally been implemented or not. Finally, we demand that the National Bank not only formally cancel the moratorium, but also ensure the necessary refinancing of those banks that, because of their condition, are unable to recover the population's deposits now. We are particularly concerned about banking issues. There is a further decline in economic lending, low confidence in national currency, speculative foreign exchange transactions, which we see on unsecured courses, which poses an extremely important threat to the financial and economic sector in the medium term. The gap between commitments and the bank resource base is widened. This further increases the imbalances between liabilities and banks' assets. Time-limits for deposits.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u3	Give me a chance to finish the thought, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u4	Such serious imbalances pose a significant threat to the banking financial system in the long term. The lack of strong demand for the currency market in April is due not to the stabilization of economic realities but to the significant decline in external economic operations and to the deterioration of the financial situation of legal and natural persons. That is why we demand that the Government finally fulfil its primary commitment, submit an adjusted, realistic budget that will be able to deliver real social protection to our people and be able to solve the problem of rebuilding our economy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u5	Mikola Volodymyrovich Martinenko, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" faction. The next one will be Hungarians, Timoshenko Street.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u6	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Last week, Parliament wasted three more sessions. And we've already had too much of a breakthrough in our work. Apparently, some of our colleagues are still celebrating and have found the reason for the extra weekends in the foreign “yellow press”. Instead of passing laws in the session hall, there were choirs around the rostrum. But there are no pretexts for blocking the work of Parliament and there was no other than a desire to avenge the Minister of Internal Affairs. From the outset, the coalition proposed what the opposition voted for only three days later: calmly resolve the situation and not make it a show. I hope that the official investigation of the incident with Yuri Lucenko, the parliamentary commission and Kabmin will put all the dots above the “and”. And the Supreme Council has to work in harmony and effectively. We need to make up for what's wrong, because the economic crisis doesn't take a break. The daily routine should be dictated by the needs of the economy, not by the political environment. It should be anti-crisis, not anti-government or anti-presidential. On April 14, the Supreme Council lost its chance to make an important contribution to overcoming the crisis. Three anti-crisis laws that paved the way for IMF loans were not adopted on a purely political basis. Responsibility was transferred to the government, which was forced to take appropriate decisions. Regrettably, antigovernment opposition is damaging the effective work of Parliament. Because the best results of the Supreme Council are achieved when the coalition votes with the opposition. For example, when we voted 408 against the President's veto to amend the Ukrainian Electricity Act in part of electricity exports. This became a victory for transparent market approaches over the culinary and lobbyist. All market participants now have equal access to auctions, so they also have equal competitive opportunities for electricity exports. This law is consistent with the European Parliament's recent decision on new principles for the functioning of energy networks. Both the President and the Prime Minister have good results when they overcome political contradictions and act together. This confirmed the steps taken to obtain IMF tranches, as well as the progress made in Brussels towards modernizing our gas transport system. Another example. Joint work by the President and the Prime Minister on Ukraine's participation in the Eastern Partnership Summit. In summary, Ukraine received a promising venue for dialogue and cooperation with the European Union and neighbouring countries on four important platforms. One is energy security. For us, it is a very important prospect for the European Union's energy system to expand to Ukraine by coordinating the transmission of electricity. It is now up to the Supreme Council to provide legislatively these processes that bring Ukraine closer to real European integration. That is, as some examples show, the group has a good fight and a crisis. We need to understand that apart from the presidential elections, there is our state and our responsibility to the electorate. We have a whole series of anti-crisis laws in place this week. These include minimizing the negative effects of the financial crisis on economic operators, changing tax legislation to fill local budgets, the State Privatization Programme, and many other important decisions, including opposition. The Supreme Council can and should demonstrate effective work, and not only on resonance bills, as was the case with the gaming business, there are hundreds of laws that are vital to the economy and the social sphere for parliamentary approval. Therefore, I hope that the opposition will not follow the principle: “It will be our way, or it will not be our way.” During the days, the leaders of the Party of Regions said they wanted the government to work on the presidential elections and overcome the economic crisis. Perhaps these calls will be a positive signal to the parliamentary faction of the Party of the Regions. Let us fight the crisis with the adoption of laws, not empty political rhetoric. It's the best test for all politicians, all parties and presidential candidates, whether they care about people or only about their own political interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u7	Paul Unguryan, faction of the block. Ivan Kirilenko, please. Next from the Communist faction, who's going to act? Mikola Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u8	Dear Head! Colleagues! Dear voters! What did he testify to last week? There was a lot of emotion, a lot of excitement, a lot of intrigue, eventually everything ended up in the sand, as usual. And Parliament's work has been further paralyzed. Why? Everyone has long known the answer. No matter what, crisis, trouble, our opponents, the worse the better. The truth is faithfully written to us by the people: “Ukraine does not need enemies if there are such a sad friend. Under such circumstances, which are no longer the first year, it is clear that we are going to do ourselves." Why have attacks on the government been so devastating in these very days? Thus, for almost a year, an entire horde of politicians, experts, and analysts have been terrorizing people with collapses, catastrophes, floods, social explosions, famines, colds, and many other horrors. Every day this political filth and terrible Sabbath pours out of the screens and shouts from the newspapers, but it has been autumn, winter, the end of spring, and nothing like it. Despite the real challenges and wild opposition, pensions, salaries for doctors, teachers, and scholarships are paid on time. The budget and the Pension Fund are four months in a row. This desirable reform has begun, and millions of our fellow countrymen have finally begun to receive a just income. People see and realize that Julia Timoshenko has stood in this fight, the hardest thing in the past, and it's pissing off our opponents. This is the truth. “Thanks to July!” is the content of hundreds of letters that come to our faction from the electorate and this testifies, in today's difficult conditions, to trust the people in the head of government. And people are also writing that it is because of her efforts that Ukraine has obtained such desirable results from international negotiations and that it is unlikely that anyone in this post would be able to negotiate so effectively either in Moscow or in Washington. In business relations only Timoshenko wants to deal with leading both Russian and world politicians. According to their actions, judge them; these are not my words; this is what people write, because they clearly see that it is the Prime Minister who has taken full responsibility for the fate of both the people and the country. She's struggling with the crisis, but everyone else is fighting Timoshenko. And last week, a paralyzed week in the Supreme Council testified to this. Why is Lucenko here? People have rightly noticed that most politicians in our language are overcoming the crisis on various TV shows, and the plow is drawn by the Prime Minister, and not only in Ukraine. Already dozens of authoritative international institutions have called Timoshenko an effective anti-crisis manager because she was able to do something really amazing. Finally, look at the exchangers and the inflation, the situation on the street. I understand that there will be a lot of anger about the arguments, and that is why people often have a fair question in their letters: “How long in Ukraine will Timoshenko cope with the crisis alone?” I call directly on behalf of the 45,000 farmers of Ukraine who have been waiting for many weeks from the distinguished Mikli Janović, the head of the Banking Committee, one of his signatures to receive several hundred million dollars of aid from the Prime Minister. Sign it, please! And by the way, being a popular showman on a variety of dog-breeding TV shows today, it's good for selfishness, but it doesn't do anything for the country or for the people. You can't spend all your time making hysterical accusations, believing that everything was dying. The formula: “And Grandma Yaga v.” – no longer works, is not accepted by people, because they no longer believe it. So let us take advantage of the fact that there is trust in one person and support the government. Recently, the world was celebrating a glorious festival — Victory Day. Let us ask ourselves whether this victory would have been possible had it not been for the whole country, all nations, to be united in one fist? In fact, when a united nation is united, it has nothing to fear. And we still have that some of their forces are going to fight the trouble, while others are fighting Timoshenko hard. How long is this going to take? When at last our individual politicians will cease to be leaders and constantly teach: do as I say,--and they will act as Julia Timoshenko: do as I do;--and be on the fore. Because today is exactly the kind of time that he needs, and that's all he needs. And the last quote from our voters' letter: “Thank you, Julia, for having us.” Thank you, too, dear voters for your understanding heart, a good word, and a strong faith that we will never betray. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u9	Kravchenko Mikola Vasilovich faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u10	Nikolai Kravchenko faction of communists. From puffos I'll move on to reality. For a week now, 16 miners have not come to the mine on the Chapaeva mine in the town of Chattersk, one of which announced a hunger strike yesterday. Yesterday, 16 numbers and I were on this mine with the Volon deputy Evgenia, what's the surprise? Surprisingly, no one needs these miners. That's the problem. The 40,000 coals that they had obtained from their work had not been bought by the Government. And the UgolUkrainian State Enterprise refused to buy it out. The coal burns, the temperature that today contributes to its self - combustion, and the miners go to extremes. But the problem for the Donetsk region is that there are different varieties of coal in the warehouses of the enterprise today, almost two million tons of coal. It's unpaid work, it's payroll debt, and this is a matter that needs to be addressed. The Cabinet of Ministers, at a meeting of the Coordinating Board on 13 November last year, made a clear promise that it would buy the state reserve from the money of the stabilization fund. Unfortunately, this has not happened today and the situation in the Donetsk area is critical. The thing is, the mines will have to stop. I registered yesterday and issued regulation 4494 today, in which, with a view to ensuring an integrated solution to this problem, I invite the Minister of Coal to hear on Friday a report on the situation of coal procurement in the public reserve. And I ask Vladimir Mihajlovich to put this question to a vote and to include it in the agenda. I would also like to conclude that, unfortunately, the Parliament today is incorporating a quantitative bill, the sum of it, not quality, once. And the second. How do we not verify how these laws are implemented and how they work? I'll give you an example. Every year we talk about taking care of miners, their families, the prestige of mining. But we cannot comply with the 43rd article of the mining law, which has long been passed in residential areas, which are open to miners. Neither the Social Policy Committee nor the Social Policy Committee have ever asked or asked the local authorities or the Ministry, which is what is actually happening. I'll tell you one more time. Today we are only considering populist bills. Today, we are talking about the crisis a lot, and unfortunately, the laws that help get out of the crisis are not being passed. Registered Law 4447 Simonenka and mine on credit. Through the real economy, we can improve the situation in the country through lending. Even next plenary week, this law is not included. I will tell you that Parliament is to blame and that we have allowed the natural monopoly of the railway ministry to increase tariffs from 1 May and that none of us have protected producers who are in a state of crisis today, in practice, to transport. Soon there will be no transport. Here's the situation. I'll tell you where we don't work, where others work. That's what happens on the ground. And an example of this is given by our President. What happened in the Bykovna forest is already going beyond normality. The man called for the destruction of the symbolism of Soviet time. A man who has one and a half percent of the ratings is imposing his thoughts on Ukraine. Its local deputies are also active. Therefore, Vladimir Mihajlovich, we must conclude from this and redirect the work of Parliament to the real sector of the economy. Please put to the vote an order on the report of the Minister of the Coal Industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u11	Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin is speaking from the “Litwin Block” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u12	Dear colleagues and all those who look at us and listen! It is obvious that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has come up with a discussion about what is happening in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Otherwise we live from conflict to conflict, but let us be honest that in the state of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it is unworthy of the Ukrainian people, it is unworthy of Ukraine. And that's a fact that needs to be fixed. It's pretty obvious that these words right now I'm saying, they don't take anybody in, and we think we're representatives of the Ukrainian people. The Supreme Council does not meet the necessary criteria for its work. Today, we are ready to consider more than 500 laws, issues that the Supreme Council does not consider at all. After weeks of blocking the rostrum, either on the one hand or on the other, any suggestion that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should work until the issues are fully considered, absolutely none. Nobody cares about that. Well, can you tell me, a combiner, a milkmaid, a farm worker, people who work in factories and factories when there's a job, they throw like elephants when they call and go home? Absolutely not. They're working. In the form of work. Dear colleagues! Note what we have transformed the Supreme Council of Ukraine, this rostrum, which must be the holy one from which it belongs. From which are public husbands to speak?Oh, my God! Notice what we have turned our jobs into, especially when an empty session hall is empty?Oh, my God! Come on, look what's in the session room! But the good host in the barn is better off. No one wants to worry. The other one. The Supreme Council of Ukraine cannot and the entire Ukrainian people cannot be hostage to just five factions. It's good that we're going to the political and party structure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But it is clear that there is no point in holding meetings of the Conciliation Councils because decisions are not taken in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. One decision is made in Leipzig, the other is made in Gruszewski, a little further. And the representatives of these factions who come to the Conciliation Council, they're taking a nice break because there's an iron concrete installation, and any argument to find compromises, they don't get it. We've dropped the country, we've gone nowhere to drop it. If we think about it, when we put up tears against each other, are we going to raise ourselves up among the people? Well, it's absolute utopia. Note what reports are about the processes that are taking place in Ukraine. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is a major destabilizing factor. And you, dear fellows, understand, I am addressing the national MPs! Please understand this while we still have two political forces holding each other back. What if one of them comes to power, what will happen in the country?Oh, my God! There will be no restraint and no opposition! And how, then, can we continue to live in the land and in the people?Oh, my God! That's why I'm talking to the people's deputies, and I'm not talking to the faction leaders. Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been measured to work until 2012, let's work! If you are always afraid that there will be a temporary election, you should realize that the absolute majority will not then fall into the session room. Even the instinct of self-preservation should work. You're in the absolute majority of smart people all! Why can't the Supreme Council work? Why are we demeaning the country? I address those words to people who think they do. And those who do not think will never understand it! That's why I'm asking and asking you, or we're going to start working rhythmically, not on a political order. Notice what decisions we make? They made decisions about the presidential election, of course they made a political decision. Decisions were made on the National Bank. Clearly, there's nothing on the way out. So I suggest, let's make a decision next week to be plenary so that we work this week to complete all the issues, and if we don't, let's make one decision -- let's change the electoral law and voluntarily make the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If you don't like my position, please find a better position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, you are given a schedule of meetings agreed upon by the Conciliation Council for our consideration. That's why I'm asking for your attention! I'm going to put to the vote those proposals that sounded again on the Conciliation Council. I'm a technical question now, if you don't mind. To continue the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the completion of the consideration of the issues set out in the May 19 schedule. Please vote. [[10:31:40]] For-198 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on a second proposal to consider drafts to exclude the second reading by a reduced procedure. Please. [[10:32:05]] For-198 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, "Club of Timoshenko" – 151, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 27, communists – 0, "Club of Lithuania" – 20. Ladies and gentlemen. Next week, it's when the committee looks at it, submits it, then we vote on it. Dear colleagues, I ask of each faction of his attitude toward the schedule set for today. Please sign up one minute at a time. Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u14	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues, I don't think this should be the subject of today's meeting schedule. Yesterday there was no Conciliation Council, no conflict situations, any counterversive treatment, as they say, of the issues to be discussed today, there was no, so it seems to me that, if the schedule of meetings is already set, if given to the deputies, if we voted in favour of a reduced procedure to consider bills other than the second reading, in order to be able to do as much work today as possible, to realize our potential, if it is, we need to agree with it again on Monday during the Conciliation Council. There's nothing to discuss. We have to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u15	Alexander Steshenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u16	To Ivan Grigorovich, please pass the word to Kirilenko, the head of the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u17	Ivan Kirilenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u18	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, we support the suggestions made in your speech. And, believe me, we're sorry that our opponents -- our opposition colleagues -- did not support the business regime of the Supreme Council, considering that last week was free of charge. Unfortunately, well, as the situation has been. Unfortunately, we will work as we have just been voted. We maintain the order of the day for the day that is formed. And once again, after 12 hours -- not after 16 -- I'm asking you to try to vote, really, to work until we've exhausted the agenda for today. By reason of the subjective reasons involved with the reporter, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, Bill 3529 is asked to postpone consideration. 3529. We have a question with a reporter on this issue, under this bill: 3529. Move on to the next few days.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u19	Adam Martinyuk, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u20	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! In general, there are no observations of the order of today’s meetings for today’s Communist faction. What's more, really, yesterday this was agreed upon by the Conciliation Council, and even more -- we're practically working on the schedule last week: almost all the same issues that we had to consider last week. One request, Vladimir Mikhailovich. We have a chapter entitled “Integrating into the agenda and making decisions”. He's almost in front. And then, in the end, there's a bill number 4209 just for inclusion in the agenda of the session. I would like to request that this 4209 be transferred to the chapter “Integrating into the Order of the Day and Making Decisions. What is it? This is about taking into account the problems of children of war when reviewing the State Budget Bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u21	National deputy Gumenjuk, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u22	I would like to give the floor to Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u23	Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u24	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine” MP. Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! We also do not share in the practice of Parliament when that force, which is not comfortable, blocks the rostrums. Yes, the tribune is being blocked by the Party of Regions, by the Block of Timoshenko, and that's just as bad for the country. We always call for constructive work in the hall. Now, in this regard, we are again paying attention, and we have officially addressed you as the Head of the Supreme Council for the Laws of 3668 and 4200. These are bills for a moratorium on small business by the end of the year and a bill on moratoriums on tax pressures other than excise duties. In words, everyone supports these initiatives. Small entrepreneurs once again resort to protests as a result of government decrees that provide for additional increases in the fighting. But there is no question of the day. We ask them to be included in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u25	Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u26	Please give the word to Alexander Sergeevich Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u27	Alexander Efraemov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u28	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! We also support the view that we need to work effectively. We just don't understand one thing: there's a coalition, and the coalition's representatives are speaking and accusing someone of not working. But please, work. You don't have to work all week. Make the right decisions (you can't even make a decision about work and organize yourself in this work. Vladimir Mihajlovich, and second question: Well, if we are already a cult of personality here in the hall after some people have spoken, provided that the country is falling apart, then perhaps such a Supreme Council is not really needed, because what is going on outside the Supreme Council is completely inconsistent with the statements they make here, from the rostrum of coalition representatives. As for the agenda. Vladimir Mihajlovich, there are questions about the temporary commission of inquiry. Once again, I would like to inform you that the meeting of the regulatory committee has taken place.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u29	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u30	Thank you. At the meeting of the regulatory committee, we considered the Inter Commission. And because statements were made by members of the Commission's family, they were not very pleasant to the authors of the Commission, and by the Attorney General's Office. The Committee decided to defer consideration of the matter and to consider the statements carefully and to return to the next meeting. We asked that we allow the Committee to conclude its consideration of the matter. And as for the Lucenco Commission. We do not understand how a commission led by the faction in which Lucenko is actually located can be established. So hand washes or what? We have therefore registered the relevant draft order for number 4483-1 and request that it be included for consideration as an alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, the suggestions that have been made, I beg your attention, we need to reconcile positions now. Kravchenk Mikli Vasilovich’s first suggestion that the Supreme Council of Ukraine hear a report from the coal - mining minister on Friday. So I understand, and on this point, this morning, an appropriate draft decision was introduced. Let's maybe do it this way. Let's get the profile committee to consider this issue immediately. If the positions are reconciled, then we will gather a consensus board and make the appropriate decision if there is no objection. John Grigorovich Kirilenko's proposal is bill 3529 to be withdrawn because there is no bill. That is, delay the consideration of the question. Is there no objection? The other one. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk's proposal to transpose Bill 4209 into the chapter “To be included in the agenda and decision-making”. At the same time, I want to inform you that there is no committee decision on this bill. So let's work it out, if there's a committee decision, we're not just going to put it in order of day, but the Supreme Council of Ukraine is going to decide on the decision on this project. Is there no objection? The next proposal was made by Viacheslav Kirilenka in connection with the two bills. Dear colleagues! Since the parliamentary group and directly Viacheslav Kirilenko have repeatedly violated this issue, and the respective committees have yet to consider these two bills, let us decide that in the next plenary week we will put them under review regardless of the position to be determined by the committee. Is there no objection? Now, Alexander Efraemov's proposal to reconcile the issue before the adoption of two draft regulations, namely the creation of temporary commissions relating to the Inter channel, as well as the incident that took place at the airport in Germany. The point is that before Bill 4483, which is proposed to create an interim commission of inquiry to investigate the incident, another draft decision has been introduced. So maybe I'll finish thinking, so maybe we should do it this way, I'd suggest. Let's maybe have a 14 o'clock meeting with the leaders of the MPs and agree to make decisions on these temporary commissions and 16 o'clock. I'm out. What you're going to demand, I'll put it to the vote. Yes, please, Sergey Sass, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u32	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I would like to draw your attention and attention to the demands of the distinguished colleagues. Vladimir Mikhailovich! At the request of part nine of article 90 of the Rules, which states that draft acts arising from the supervisory functions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, namely the creation of interim commissions of inquiry, are not introduced. Therefore, we need to consider the bill that is included in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, since you do not have an understanding of the last question here, let us turn to Tuesday’s schedule. Dear colleagues, please, Alexander Ephraim of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u34	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, I may agree with my colleague, but this is the secretariat of the Supreme Council registered him as an alternative to this bill, and he has another full name and another chairman of the commission. Let us therefore consider it a separate bill, and I would ask that you put it on the agenda for today's consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, I have to tell you that he's not registered as an alternative, because if he were an alternative, there would be a number. That's why you're going to insist. We're going to be looking. Dear colleagues, we need to take a decision on the elimination of disagreements in the text of the adopted Ukrainian Act on Change and Recognition of Those That Have Fallen, some Ukrainian legislation on the activities of the Ukrainian State Criminal Enforcement Service. The relevant document is given to you in accordance with article 131 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and I am voting on the proposal. Change the vote. Please, National Deputy Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u36	Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I support the content of this document, but I would like to draw attention to both the Head of the Supreme Council and the Supreme Council's apparatus for two things. First of all, I think this is a direct result of our hasty adoption of documents as a whole, this practice needs to be stopped. It seems to me that I am ashamed of those who offered to accept it as a whole and, above all, the committee that offered it. So once again, I want to emphasize that this practice needs to be stopped. And secondly, such a large document would still have to be given to the deputies today in a comparative table to see what the standards are changing and what the editorials are, because I had to raise the previous text to see what it is that is improving and how editorial regulation or amendment is essentially.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u37	Yes, thank you. Mikola Kravchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u38	Vladimir Mikhailovich! I may not be a subject, but you didn't give me your word. Vladimir Mikhailovich, you have to understand that people are sitting in the slammer. And wait till the committee that will never give up the minister is here. And who would categorically object to hearing this report. A decision must be made at the state level. The Supreme Council must respond today. I therefore request that the agenda be included on Friday by a vote in the Chamber. And we'll see who's in favor.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u39	Dear colleagues! Now let's get this over with, and then we'll agree on a position on the recommendation of our colleague Mikli Kravchenka. Dear colleagues! Yuri Klukkowski has absolutely no logic in not making decisions and clarifying the laws already voted, but the Supreme Council of Ukraine needs to work rhythmically. It takes a working regime and a mood in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And as for the comment on such serious details to provide a comparative table, I would ask the relevant committees and the secretariat to consider this fair proposal. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The proposal to remove disagreements in the text of the adopted Ukrainian Law on Change and Recognition is put to the vote in such a way that some Ukrainian legislative acts on the activities of the Ukrainian State Criminal Enforcement Service have been lost. Please vote. [[10:48:21]] For 378 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! With regard to the offer of Mikoli Kravchenka. Let's do it this way. At 3 p.m., I'm going to meet with the faction leaders, and I'm going to invite the head of the profile committee, and we're going to discuss this issue, which is related to the proposal to listen to the report of the coal minister, because the situation is really complicated. Is there no objection? We agreed at 3 p.m., the Conciliation Council meeting. The draft Ordinance on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to verify compliance with legislation during the reconstruction of the National Sports Complex "Olympic". Dear colleagues! Will we listen to the reports, the reports, or if there are no objections and the committee supports, will we vote then? Alexander Sergiyovich, is there no objection on the committee? I am voting on the adoption of the draft Decree, registration number 4255 on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to verify compliance with legislation in the reconstruction of the National Sports Complex “Olympic”. [[10:49:51]] For 376 Decision taken. The draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Inquiry Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Investigation of the Situations of Violations of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Laws of Ukraine was announced and the results were falsified. Is there a need to discuss this project? Please, National Deputy of Ukraine, Budgerak Alexander Aleksandrovich, your report. After that, the Committee on the Rules of Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will address the Head of the Ephraim Committee. And then two "for", two "against". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u40	It's a hop shop, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear colleagues! On March 3, 2009, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed a decision on recognition of the validity of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the appointment of alternate members of the Ternopil District Council on February 2, 2009. However, ignoring decisions of the Ukrainian Supreme Legislative Authority on March 15, 2009, elections to the Ternopil District Council were still conducted with mass forgerys and violations of Ukrainian electoral legislation and other normative acts. According to representatives of local information agencies in the Presbyterian and Coastal regions, the ballots show that the ballots were delivered without the help of law enforcement authorities. On the day of the vote by local activists of political parties and movements, an electoral campaign was conducted in favour of the political power that found support for the leadership of the Ternopil district administration. In individual polling stations, there have been cases of manipulations with the actual number of ballot papers and records. In isolated cases, there have been cases of voter bribery in polling stations. Special attention should be paid to the illegal financing of the electoral campaign, since this was without legitimate grounds for holding elections. In turn, the election to the Ternopil district council.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u41	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u42	Dent elections to test out the dirtiest electoral technologies Ukraine has experienced since 1998. On the basis of the above and with the aim of overcoming the clout of officials, we need, the Supreme Council, to respond and create an investigative commission of the Supreme Council. You. There's a regulation in hand, a draft decision, and for your consideration, the following national deputies that are part of this project are proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u43	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. You don't have to. There's this document. Committee head Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u44	Honourable Chairman, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! The committee considered a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council on the investigation of the situation of violations of the Constitution of Ukraine and of laws in the conduct of successive elections to the Ternopil District Council on 15 March 2009 and the facts of falsification of their results, submitted by the People's Deputys Budgerak and Denkovich. The committee determined that the draft decree was drafted and registered in accordance with the requirements of the Law, article 4 of the Law of Ukraine on the Temporary Commissions of Inquiry, the Special Temporary Commission of Inquiry and the Temporary Special Commission of the Supreme Council, and articles 85, 87, 90, 92 of the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At the same time, the Committee notes that the 2009 fund of the Supreme Council of Ukraine provides for the provision of funds for technical, technical, personnel, information and organizational security for only 10 temporary commissions. And we've already created 12 temporary commissions. So we suggest that the Supreme Council decide on the establishment of a temporary commission without material, technical, human and information and organizational security. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that a draft Supreme Council Regulation be included in the agenda of the day plenary meeting of the Supreme Council and that it be considered in the light of the Committee’s proposals. Please support the decision. And, Vladimir Mikhailovich, from the faction, there is still a request instead of Montenegro's candidature to appoint Suhigo. Replace the candidates from the faction of the Party of Regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, are there any suggestions for a replacement? Please sign up for two, two against. It's a recording, please. Please put the name of the national MPs on the board. Jaroslav Suhi, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u46	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, Party of Regions. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to draw the attention of our colleagues, especially the representative of Bugerak, who reported this bill: this is not how the apiori can be told that there has been a fact and that there have been massive frauds, manipulations, gross violations of the law, gross violations of the Constitution, this is not a proven fact. Thus, it is not for the entire country of the high court of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to make accusations against people who held elections in the Ternopil region. And one more thing. I want to pay attention to all my colleagues, no lawsuit, not that there was no court decision, based on the election of the Ternopil district council, no. That's why I think we should be more tolerant when we speak from the rostrum. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have one minute. May I have a word with Annie Herman?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u47	Hanna Hermann, although I'm asking you not to. Please, Hanna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u48	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. I would like to point out to my colleague from BUT: "The Block of Yulia Timoshenko" is losing in Western Ukraine, not because someone there is forging elections, but because people there under this authority and this government are living very badly. Yesterday, for example, small businesses from Western Ukraine called me, called the owners of a small station where cars were kept, and said that they had only three employees; a clerk had recently come and fined seven thousand dollars of these small entrepreneurs just because there was no disability among the three workers. “And how will the disabled work,” the small entrepreneurs told me, “how should the cars be protected?” And how you can prove the lives of small businesses.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u49	Thank you. Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u50	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'm not going to compete with the intellectual potential of the previous speech about who wins the election, where they lose. You've never won West Ukraine in your life. So here you can forget about these dreams. And the fact that you worked with the retired head of the Presidential Secretariat in one of the regions in the Ternopil region doesn't mean anything. And I would like to point out that the fact that there is such a commission of inquiry is just necessary to clarify what happened in Ternopol. How many abuses have been committed, how much has been done in principle, which contradicts the proud name of the local elections, because it is not to be forgotten that the district council is the so-called district parliament, and it is now reflecting in Ternopolis, not the will of the electorate, but the will of individual representatives of the system, especially those who have now written a resignation application and, in principle, I think, the authorities have lost interest in what is happening in the Ternopil region. So I would like to point out that it's not just a matter of forging. Here we must establish the truth of what happened in Ternopol to deprive us of the opportunity to speculate on what happened in the Ternopil region. We didn't. BUTH did not take part in the election to the Ternopil district council, knowing and appreciating in advance, and informing what would take place and what would happen. With regard to lawsuits, legal action is needed only if we want to achieve that, in principle, someone is sentenced or held accountable. We are well aware that it is not those who organized the elections but those who drew the strings while in Kiev in high positions that need to be held accountable. In his high office, especially the head of the President's Secretariat. Hopefully, with this loss of office, we will be able to establish the truth of what happened in Ternopol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u51	Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u52	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! The creation of such a commission is certainly not the most appropriate article of the Constitution, which speaks of the fact that temporary special commissions are created for the purpose of studying and evaluating socially meaningful events and phenomena. The elections in the Ternopil region are not just elections. I would very much like the commission -- I have no doubt that we will form it -- to give clear answers to the unprecedented phenomenon in our history: for the first time in the history of the state, elections were held in spite of the Supreme Council's decision. You know. That the Supreme Council overturned those decisions. You know very well how the judicial system dealt with election issues and how the courts ruled out each other. It also did not work for the public; it did not work for the rule of law in the state. At the same time, I think this commission is going to give us an answer to what really happened in the Ternopil area: is this an event that is going to end, or are we going to wait all over the country for the same rematch that the right nationalist forces have taken. If the elections in Ternopol were not falsified, if there is indeed what some say, if “Freedom” has truly been the winner there, then we do not expect to see such a triumphal walk of this “Freedom” from all over Ukraine, of course, from which freedom we do not see. And one more thing. Vladimir Mikhailovich, in view of the fact that there is no representative of the Communist Party on board, our faction suggests that we introduce Sergei Volodymyrovich as part of the commission. It does not belong, it does not belong to any commission today, that is, the rules of law will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u53	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u54	Once again, I emphasize that Sergey Volodymyrovich Gordijenko is not part of any commission, that is, there will be no violations of the law and of the Rules. That's why I'm proposing to bring Gordonce into this committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u55	Thank you. Honorable colleagues, discussion of the subject. Ah, insists on the procedure. No, you can't. I've already made a statement from the faction. Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u56	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues, I don't think we need to sharpen the situation around creating a commission of inquiry. First of all, it's not a penal institution -- it's really a commission that has to figure out how the elections and the vote calculations were going on. And for me, for example, the most important thing is not even that there are great doubts about the results in the Ternopil region, but that there are still elections to the local authorities, to the city heads, to the village heads, and so on. Everyone knows exactly how the elections are going. Everyone knows that individual cases occur, and they come together right in front of the constituency. Everyone knows that in the election, these boxes are allowed for two or three men. So it's already gaining mass character. And everyone understands that when there was a vote in the Ternopil area and a vote count, there were a lot of violations. And despite the fact that the election committee of Ukraine made a very nice statement on these elections, everyone knows that the police didn't even accompany the election ballots there. The other thing is who's to blame, but that's the fact that the election ballots were never protected at all. And it's not that parties that no one has ever heard of have taken a lot of votes, but it's a matter of giving the work of this commission of inquiry a measure of understanding to all those who want to continue, first in the local elections, and then obviously in the presidential and parliamentary elections, what will be the responsibility, the responsibility for violating electoral legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, the draft decision has been discussed. I will put to the vote with the clarifications that have been proposed by the faction of the Party of the Regions and by the faction of the Communists. Instead of Chernomore's Alexander Mikolaiovich Suhi Jaroslav Mihajlovich, from the Communist Party of Ukraine, Gordijenko Sergey Volodymyrovich. With these clarifications in mind, I am voting on the adoption of the draft decision, registration number 4269, on the establishment of the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the circumstances of the violation of the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine in the conduct of the extraordinary elections to the Ternopil District Council on 15 March 2009 and the falsification of their results. Please vote. That's what I said. [[11:06:01]] For 231 Decision taken. A draft Order on the Establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Investigation of the Death of the National Deputy of Ukraine IV calling Igor Plujnikov and seizing unknown persons to his property, shares of the company Inter. Registration number 4311. Reporter: National Deputy Filipenko Volodymyr Pilipovich The committee will be chaired by the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u58	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! The media has repeatedly reported the conditions of the death of the Ukrainian National MP on the fourth call, co-owner of the Inter Channel to Plujnik. Thus, according to the media, Plužniki is suddenly dying in Germany in June 2005. The official cause of death was acute infectious hepatitis. Along with these individual doctors, it is suggested that the death of the ploughman could have been violent. It is also unknown how his share of the “Inter” channel will be transferred to other persons. Yes, the main channel sales agreements took place at the time of the onset of the disease, the presence of Plužnikov in a coma and immediately after his death, which made it impossible for him to personally participate in the signing of documents on the sale of a portion of the Inter channel. However, according to the information distributed to Igor Slugnik during the illness, none of the outsiders came or went. Yet the sale of the television channel was made on the basis of documents signed by Igor Plujnik himself, and no one conducted a graphological analysis at the time. All the above facts, despite their repeated media coverage, have never been properly investigated. Therefore, the causes of the mysterious death of Plužnikov and the loss of shares in the “Inter” channel remain unestablished and constitute a great social resonance. On the basis of this, it is suggested that a temporary commission of inquiry be established for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. All the agreement of the MPs regarding the establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission to investigate the deaths of the Plužnikov People’s Deputies and the occupation by unknown persons of their property are available. The factions were determined by the candidates. It is proposed to determine that the number of members of the commission is 11 people's deputies in Ukraine, proposed to elect the head of the Temporary Investigation Commission of the Ukrainian National Deputy Portnova Andrija Volodymirovic, deputy national deputy Hermanna Hanna Mikolayovna. As part of the Temporary Investigation Commission, it is proposed to include the following national deputies, taking into account the representation quotas: Bagraev Mikola Georgiyovitch ; Zdravnoskiy Vitaliy [[Timoshenko's Block of July]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u59	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u60	Theological Inna Hermanovna; Sulkovski Pavel Gnatovich, Tobaccoer James Pinevic. [[the faction of the Party of the Regions]] [[the faction of the Party of the Regions]] From the faction of our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense: Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich and Shevchuk Viktorovich. From the Communist Party faction, Haydava Yuri Alexandrovich. Also from the Litwina Block, according to the letter by Polishchuk Oleg Viktorovich. Thank you, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u61	Have a seat, please. Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, head of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u62	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! As I have said before, additional material has been made available to members of the Plujnik family and to the Office of the Attorney-General. In that connection, the Committee decided to defer consideration of the matter to 20 May, following the finalization of the materials. And I would like to express my personal views on this issue. You know, when I got acquainted with the family statement, I don't specifically want to read it for purely ethical reasons, but I'm very sorry and I'm ashamed that the representatives of BUIT are trying to provoke this topic. Thank you. I propose not to consider today, but to move the matter forward and to consider it after the Committees have considered it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the performance. And I would very much ask that we have a policy here that is consistent with morality when we discuss this issue. Please put the names of the national MPs on the board. Bodnar, faction of Yulia Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u64	Please hand over the Cosmackin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u65	Andrew Kozemyakin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u66	The Honourable Head, honourable colleagues, the faction of the “Julia Tymoshenko Block” initiated the creation of a temporary commission to investigate legality, to acquire ownership rights on the “Inter” channel. So our faction will support this issue, that's the first. Secondly, I would like to say to the previous speaker that if anyone has any material, they will be handed over and handed over to a commission that will create a temporary investigation and this interim commission of inquiry will look at it and make a decision. And if we're talking about some complaints coming from someone, you know, if we're talking about relatives, children and someone else in the M.S.C. that voted today, we're probably going to have a very long dialogue about that. So we think the goal of creating a temporary commission of inquiry first and foremost is to help the Attorney-General find out, really legally, whether these shares are sold to this channel or not, that's the first. And secondly, the second question we're asking is to find out the circumstances of the death of the former owner of this channel. So what's happening now on a channel that once loved all of Ukraine is a disgrace. And it seems to me that the interim commission of inquiry will answer these questions, as discussed in Mr. Philippeen's statement today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u67	Demiscan National Deputy, faction of the Party of the Regions. Handing over the right to speak to Hani Herman, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, please note that politicians have no right to pressure and influence the politics of the television channel and the freedom of speech. And all the insinuations around the "Inter" channel today in all progressive circles are clearly seen as an attempt to subdue this channel to power, corresponding and political power before the presidential elections. So I'm asking you, Your Honor, that we take this decision to create such a commission very seriously. I ask that the committee on the freedom of speech and information also consider this issue before voting. Freedom of speech is the only conquest we have from those democratic forces that have tried to establish democratic principles and principles in our society. Let's be very careful with this fragile acquisition that we have so far. I ask you very carefully to address this question. No one says that we should not investigate a particular fact. It is only that the insinuations around the “Inter” do not narrow down freedom of speech in Ukraine and try not to be a means of pressure on the politics of this channel and other media in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u69	Irina Heratschenko, faction of our Ukraine People's Self-Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u70	Dear colleagues! I'm just as much concerned about the situation in the media today as any of the colleagues in this room, a colleague in the BUT faction, the Party of Regions, the "Our Ukraine – the People's Self-Defense". When, in fact, it is a great conquest of new power that we have freedom of speech, but at the same time there is no responsibility to the media. And we see very often the engagement, the dependence of the editors on their owners. I am also concerned about the situation that we often see not only on the “Inter” but also on other channels, on the media, when we see their involvement and that, unfortunately, from the media, they are transformed into roubles and wormholes or business structures or some political structures. But today in the electoral campaign, when the Supreme Council accepts such important documents on incompetence, you know, pressure on the media, some incomprehensible tests that can be used as pressure on the media, we can't turn the Supreme Council into a stick, too, dealing with a media tool that someone likes or doesn't like. If we want to talk to you about having a problem with freedom of speech in Ukraine, let's speak honestly about it, not so, you know, very wrong to use it. When we're invited to a talk show, we run there together from all the factions, and then we adopt laws like that, regulations like that today. It's not fair. Let's talk about what we need to adopt legislation that will ensure the transparency of media owners, we really don't know who owns the media today. Let's talk about this because society needs to know who's behind the media. Let's raise questions about their involvement very often, about the lack of principles in the media and politics, both professional and moral. But not to turn the Supreme into a “dub ” of a pleasurable, disagreeable, loyal, or disloyal media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u71	Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, please the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u72	Thank you! Martinuk is a faction of Communists. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! As I listened to my colleagues' speeches, I remembered, and perhaps most of the people here in the session room were studying the genius of Vladimir Illich Lenin’s work “Party Organization and Party Literature”. And so, as a result of this classical work, we can argue today whether there is freedom or not. On the one hand, it seems to be freedom of speech, but on the other hand, each freedom of speech belongs to one master or another. Show me, please, at least one television channel that is really not involved financially, which would be a social, public, to which we would all pay our contributions, then we could talk about that he's exercising this freedom of speech. Unfortunately, you and I are in a huge debt because there is a commitment of each faction, each of the political powers has spoken of us as a social broadcaster, but so far we cannot be able to accept the relevant legislative act. That's what this committee is specifically about. Maybe those who want to create this commission are right, but those who say why this commission is being set up to simply redistribute this most powerful television channel. I think, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, let's listen and let this be the decision of the session room, let's listen to the head of the profile committee about what we're really going to carry, tomorrow, the more committee meetings, move it to Thursday, and on Thursday, we'll look at it after the committee's consideration of this issue. There is no conclusion of the committee, I am a member of this committee, and I confirm that the committee has not reached agreement. One or two days won't solve anything. So I support the offer of Ephraim, and please, Vladimir Mikhailovich, put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u73	Colleagues, we've finished the discussion. Those who signed up spoke. As part of the third article of Rule 93 of the Rules, the committee is more specifically obliged to consider a bill during the month. If he does not consider it, he may enter the session room in agreement with the Conciliation Council. At the same time, a proposal was made from both Alexander Ephraim and Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich to move the matter to the fourth. I'll put these proposals to the vote, please take the appropriate one. Then there's no point, you understand. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, if there's a proposal, I'll put it to the vote. You'll figure it out. Don't appeal to me, please. That's why it's an offer. Well, then it doesn't make sense. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! I answer according to the Rules. We're now working on how to proceed. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please sign up from each faction before the vote. Please, from every faction. We make complex, delicate decisions, honourable colleagues. I understand all your insistence. So let's take one minute, one minute, and then we'll move on to making a decision. Please. People's Deputy Kilincarov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u74	Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u75	Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u76	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, please listen carefully to both Vladimir Ivanovich and the members of the Presidium. We're in an interesting situation. There's a disproportionate vote. I ask you not to forget that it takes 150 votes to make a decision. And to accept our offer, it takes at least 226 votes. And that's why those who are concerned that, as it were, they have to put their voting bids first, they're not right. Ask the profile committee to move for one day. I don't see any fundamental meaning. You'll have 150 votes on Thursday. Let's not break it. And please put the motion to the vote. She's going to pick up on the transfer, and she's going to listen to the committee. You won't, you'll put another motion on the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u77	Mikola Martinenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u78	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! We've been talking about this committee for too long. We've already broken all the spears down here. Why don't we want to do it? I don't think there were such a lot of principles on any committee. So let's vote, let's take this out of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u79	National Deputy Illashov, Party of Regions. Hanna Herman, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, we can treat the Chief of the Supreme Council any way we please. But in the country’s very responsible moments, the Chief of the Supreme Council always offers a wise decision. I ask you now to support the opinion of Lithuania that we should not rush into such a delicate matter. Let's endure one day, let's discuss this issue from all sides, so that the world doesn't laugh at us for ruining the last victory of democracy. No one will forbid you to create, and you will have the 150 votes, but let us wisely, with due consideration, approach such a delicate problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u81	Alexander Steshenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u82	I ask you to convey to Sergio Vladimirovich Sasa and listen carefully to what is to be said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u83	Sergei Sas, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u84	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I wanted to draw the attention of Adam Ivanovich, who spoke on this subject, was not at the committee meeting to discuss the matter. The committee’s decision was not on transfer or transfer. The bill was given 13 numbers in the order of the day and had to be considered. That's next. 17.04 The bill is registered, and the committee should have considered it for a month, he has not considered it. The Supreme Council has the right to consider what it has done. In this case, the bill is under consideration, and we need to put those proposals to the vote, Vladimir Mikhailovich. There's no way we're going to be able to do this right now about the postponement-moving. There was a proposal to support this bill, stand up. If he doesn't get the right number of votes, we'll make a different decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, we had an exchange of thoughts, and at the same time we consulted at the Presidium. When the proposal was made to postpone consideration of the matter, it was not supported in the hall, and we began to consider the matter. If we have begun to consider the matter, we must conclude it by making an appropriate decision or not making a decision. That's why we're here to vote. I'm voting on a draft ruling and I'd like to ask the MPs to take the personal responsibility to make the appropriate decision so that we don't do what other decisions have been made. I am voting on the draft Decree on the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the deaths of the National Deputy of Ukraine IV calling Igor Plužnikov and the capture by unknown persons of his own shares in the company “Inter”. Registration number 4311. Please determine how to vote. [[11:26:06]] For a hundred and Decision taken. The draft Ordinance on Changes in the Composition of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Investigation of the Situations of Illegal Detention on 6 April 2005 is being announced, by the Chief Investigative Directorate of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the head of the Donetsk District Council of Kolesnikov Boris Viktorovich, for the maintenance of him in custody and for the violation of his criminal case. Registration number 4295. Dear colleagues, this is about replacing Valery Pisarenko as representative of this faction of Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich. The committee considered and suggested making the appropriate decision. Why don't we discuss it and put it to a vote right now? Is there no objection? Then I thank you and put to the vote the draft Decree, registration number 4295 on changes in the composition of the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of illegal detention on 6 April 2005 by the Chief Investigative Directorate of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine of the head of the Donetsk District Council of Kolesnik Boris Viktorovich, on keeping him in custody, as well as a violation of his criminal case. Registration number 4295. [[11:27:42]] For 399 Decision taken. Now, honourable colleagues, draft regulations on the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the incident involving Interior Minister Lucenko Yuri Vitaliyovich, who took place at Frankfurt am Main Airport on 04 May 2009. [[Registration number 4483 and 4485]] [[Germany]] Why Two Decisions? In view of the fact that the draft of the second decision offers a broader range of assignments to the committee concerned. Dear colleagues, we've already made one decision, let's move on so we don't have any of these storms. Therefore, the reporter for this question is the National MP, the National Deputies of Ukraine, and the Lukyanov. And the committee will be headed by the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov. Please, Comrade gatekeeper, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, I am asking you to support the establishment of a Special Investigation Commission on the investigation of the incident involving Interior Minister Yuri Lucenka, who took place on 4 May 2009 at Frankfurt am Main Airport in Germany. Today, society has the right to know what actually happened, while widespread information is not officially supported by any German and Ukrainian institutions, but unofficial versions and assumptions are aimed at destroying Ukraine’s reputation. The main task of the interim commission of inquiry is to provide the Ukrainian community with reliable information regarding the investigation of the circumstances of the known incident. We, the representatives of all the MPs, have to determine all the circumstances of this event, which are supported by evidence and which are not. Please support the draft Decree 4483 on the creation of a commission of inquiry. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u87	Please, Lukyanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u88	Dear citizens of Ukraine, I am addressing you, and I am addressing this session hall with one simple question. The situation surrounding the minister of the interior of Lucenka’s affairs today is being discussed in a very lively manner and has a very large social resonance. Today, every citizen of Ukraine has understood the situation surrounding the incident that happened to our minister of internal affairs. Unfortunately, this incident has gained publicity not only in Ukraine but also worldwide. One hundred and eighteen of the most influential media outlets published information about the interior minister’s incident in the world’s leading publications. And every honest person understands that the political and moral responsibility of the minister of the interior must take place as a minimum. But when we look at this issue on the committee, when we look at this issue in a number of discussions in the Ukrainian media, we see that the government is taking an immoral position, a position of double standards, a position of hypocrisy. In a situation where every individual is brought to justice and criminal responsibility, the minister of the interior avoids this responsibility. So I propose to create a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the incident involving the Minister of Interior of Ukraine Lucenka Yuri Vitaliyovich, which took place on 4 May 2009 and.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u89	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u90	And other reports of abuse on his part. I take this determination before the Supreme Council and call upon all decent and honest deputies to support this proposal. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u91	Alexander Sergiyovich, please. Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u92	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Because the documents themselves on one and on the other orders were registered as an urgent matter, they are. We have not had the opportunity to consider them on the committee. But I would like to address all the colleagues on the floor with a completely different question. We just got one very interesting document from China yesterday. You know Lucenko was supposed to fly to China after Seoul. Thus, the Chinese side for the admission of the Minister of the Interior of Ukraine wrote him the following document, which we confirm is your admission to China, but on one condition that you will comply with all the laws of our State. In fact, such analogs should be included in the Guinness Records book, when the Minister of the Interior warns the host country that it must comply with its laws. And frankly, as a person, a citizen of our State, it is not clear to me that our colleagues are being stifled when they propose to set up a commission in which they will be chief and who will consider the conduct of their guilty person. You understand the absurdity is different, but to be completely absurd, I don't think even the Supreme Council has the right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u93	Dear colleagues! Who insists on discussing the matter? They insist. Please sign up for two, two for no. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u94	I'd like to give it to Vadim Koleschenko. Kolechenko, MP, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u95	Vadim Koleschenko. One of the factions can be written down.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u96	Dear colleagues! Respectable citizens of Ukraine! You know the absurdity of the question that we are considering is so ridiculous and puts us in an awkward position that there is no point in even discussing it. Mr. Lucenko officially confirmed last Friday that his son had used force against armed police officers. And Mr. Lucenko himself formally confirmed that he had stood up for his son and had also used force against armed police officers in carrying out their duties. What other temporary commissions of inquiry do we need to verify? Any police officer, a police officer who is in the line of duty with a weapon, is protected by law, cannot be touched with his hands, cannot be deprived of his ammunition, cannot be drawn from his weapon, it is called an offence. After that, the Minister of the Interior, who was in a cage that was held in handcuffs by definition, was not entitled to determine the protection of the rights of citizens within Ukraine. This is against the background of increasing crime, street crime, when the number of crimes committed by law enforcement officials against Ukrainian citizens is increasing. This is an unprecedented fact, which in the world community is finally condemned and, in respect of Lucenko, they laugh at Ukraine. And the attempt by Lucenko to cover the concerns of parliament about what is happening in Ukraine, at the customs and borders of other States has no objective reality. There's an attempt to free the cat from liability, and it's the one who's always said that bandits should be in jail. And Lucenko has to resign on his own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u97	Pavlovski People's Deputy, faction of the “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, please give the floor to Deputy Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u99	Sergei Sas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u100	Thank you. I wanted to draw your attention to the position of article 100 of the Rules, which states that alternatives to a bill containing positions that regulate the same circle of issues are considered as alternatives to the same social relationship. In this case, the apparatus did the right thing by registering the bill introduced by the Lukyanov People’s Deputy at number 4483-1. Now, in a hasty order, it's written here, retouched, and a new number has been assigned to the bill. But the bill essentially repeats the bill passed by the Zabzaluk People's Deputy. So in this case, we have no reason to consider it non-alternative; it regulates the same subject matter. As for the consideration of these bills, if it is not an alternative, they should be considered separately. To consider one is to make a decision, and then consider, not once, Vladimir Mikhailovich, but separately. Next. There is a provision in Article 4 of the Law on Commissions of Inquiry. A commission of investigators cannot be created from the same questions. This is prohibited by the Law on Investigative Commissions. So in this case, we're completely confused. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, a bill introduced by the Lukyan people’s deputy, cannot be supported on the grounds that the Shufric people’s deputy is already a member of another commission. In particular, following an investigation into questions related to the poisoning of Yashchenk. That's why he can't be a member of another commission, which is also regulated by the law. There is no agreement between the factions received in the bill tabled by the Lukyanov People’s Deputy. Therefore, respectable colleagues! Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Let's not get confused or confused.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u101	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u102	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! We have a dilemma as to what to do next: whether to make decisions about everything on the Internet, whether to take decisions about everything published in the foreign press, or whether to consider the Ukrainian Constitution, where citizens have rights, and the same Yuri Lucenka has rights. And what is the Constitution. And the Constitution stipulates that there is a presumption of innocence in Ukraine. Thus, this presumption presupposes that a person is innocent until another is established. What do we see now? We now see that the German prosecutor's office refuses to investigate and does not see the composition of the crime in the actions committed by Mr. Lucenk. All the hysteria against the fact that there were 4.5 members of the crime being counted by the so-called opposition, is it not clear what the opposition is about? Unless it's common sense. She hit like a nice bubble. Today, we should sit quietly and do not interfere with the work of Parliament. Moreover, there was a report that was confirmed that Lucenka's son had brought to trial the newspaper “Bel”. Moreover, in Berlin this question will now be considered in the coming days. I'd like to caution the regulatory committee against double standards: in one case, you make these decisions and you look at them in 15 minutes, on a break, and in the other case, you can't get to the bottom of it. Here it is proposed to choose the head of temporary Zabzaluk Roman Omelanovic, a well-balanced intelligent person. I think people are going to figure out the whole composition of the commission, and I propose to support Project 4483 and against the Lukyanov bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u103	Dear colleagues! The discussion is over. Please, Alexander Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u104	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! I understand the concerns of our colleagues, and the situation can indeed be brought to a point of extreme absurdity, as I have said. That's why, Vladimir Mikhailovich! We may find a compromise on this issue. We have a board of Gigi who has been looking into issues related to violations that exist in the Ministry of Internal Affairs. And perhaps it is not logical for us to create other commissions, but simply to write a paragraph there today's decision to entrust the Jiggy Commission with expanding its responsibilities to consider the incident that took place in Frankfurt, Maine. Had our colleagues agreed to this proposal, we would have closed the subject. As for the legality or irregularity of the decision. Vladimir Mikhailovich! I did not then speak on the Internet, but there was an initial proposal that we did not consider the issue. You didn't put it to a vote, put it to a vote, and then you've already removed the question, as was already the case in the review process, which is not really true. Initially, you were obliged to ask the question of the proposal that had been made to defer consideration of the matter, which you had not done. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u105	Dear colleagues! The discussion is over. I would ask my fellow believers, after the decision has been made, not to find the guilty! And when they could not stand up for any position, they did not seek fault in the person of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would like to remind you that it has been agreed that we should address this issue, which concerns “Inter” last week. And this schedule of meetings has passed since last week, when the issue has not been considered. So I would ask, Alexander Sergiyovich, distinguished colleagues, not to make me an enemy of the press. That's the first one. The other one. About our colleague Sasa's offer. The draft ruling is not a normative act that regulates social relations. So let's not draw him here by the ears. And I, my distinguished colleagues, would like to ask you in general to have the regulatory committee speak with one voice, in the position of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. You stand for party positions on the one hand and on the other hand, what do we do here? Therefore, my fellow Members, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that on May 15 we have adopted an appropriate Supreme Council Order, which has a second paragraph; “Deputy factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine to make proposals for their representatives to be part of the Provisional Inquiry Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on this matter.” What question do you know? That's why we come to absurdity. Note, two draft decrees differ in just two individuals. The same people are on the committee. Where will the deputies go, the meeting of which commission? So let's do it this way, logically. We're not going to support these two draft decisions, we're not going to. This is ridiculous! I'm talking to you. After we don't support the two drafts of the decision, we'll settle this second item and assign it to the commission to consider the issue and that's what it said when we discuss it. That's it. I'm just talking to you, dear colleagues. That's absurd. Because I'm going to have to put two draft rulings on the vote, and I'm asking you to calm down, because they're going under different numbers. I'm going to have to put them to the vote on these two draft decrees. They will win 150 votes and there will be no decision. And we're going to have three committees working. Please. Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u106	Thank you. Martinuk is a faction of Communists. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I understand you very well. In fact, we can now create two commissions. Because 150 and there are voices, 150 and there are voices. As a result, we're going to be sorry, and the chickens are going to laugh. I propose we find an alternative, a compromise. Let's either be in the session room right now, or at 12 o'clock, when we're holding the Conciliation Council, we'll figure out the head of the commission. Of course, it doesn't make sense when the head of the commission is protecting the minister from a faction. It was more logical for the head of the commission to be opposed. And the commission will already be represented proportionally. They're not the only heads of the commission who solve the issue, they're the ones who decide the commission. So, please, let's settle this now. Or 12 o'clock about the head of the commission, and the members of the commission, they're in the same one, and they're in the same one. And then we'll be honored to get out of this colossal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u107	I mean, Your Honor Adam Ivanovich, I totally agree with you. But we're in the same situation as we were in the last question. We have considered the questions, and we need to make a decision. If we're him, dear colleagues, if we're putting him off again, we're not making any decisions. I suggested that we do the same, but we did not agree. As far as the previous question was concerned. We have to conclude our consideration of the matter by making a decision. Please, Sergei Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u108	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, the situation is that we cannot vote on the second bill because there is no agreement on the factions provided for in the Rules. There's a board meeting with the head of the commission that's being proposed. But how to get out of this situation. I've already called. Article 4 of the Law on Commissions of Inquiry. Two committees from the same subject cannot be created. I mean, if the Supreme Council now votes for the first ruling that was reported and a commission is set up, then we can't vote for another, given this rule of law. I think it's clear. Because if we go this way that we've already gone, we're going to look at it, we're going to create three committees. There are three times 150 and three commissions we're going to create from the same question. Therefore, the law must be clearly observed. And we're totally going out in this situation. Put to the vote, Vladimir Mikhailovich. If he does, the commission will be created, and another can't be created, according to the Law on Investigative Commissions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u109	I want to tell my respectable colleague. I can see it, I can tell. That we shouldn't create investigative commissions to raise political accounts. Both the first and the second are the summation of political accounts. There you forget about the articles of the Rules. Instead of being supportive. Valery Konovaluk, please. Then Anatoly Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u110	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Valerius Konovaluk, Party of Regions. Vladimir Mikhailovich, today you have called on the Supreme Council to work effectively. And in my opinion, the proposal and the effort to create two commissions of inquiry is to try to block and actually turn into an investigation farce that is not just for society today, but also for the world community. I'm sure we've had our claims to Lucenko piled up over the course of four years. It's an abuse of power, it's a harassment, it's a misbehavior. So we need to consider not only the case of this covert case in Frankfurt, which is really a disgrace to Ukraine, but also to give this official a clear assessment, a legal assessment. So you are not only right, but you are also proposing a solution that can actually compromise today. I mean, to give the commission of inquiry to Mikola Gigi, a very professional and responsible man, a man who is known not only in Ukraine but also in the world. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u111	Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u112	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" block. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to address you, indeed, with the desire to express my opinion that we do not make a precedent or put the situation in a deadlock. On Friday, Vladimir Mikhailovich, according to the Conciliation Council of your initiative, we voted that we should create a special commission of inquiry on the incident that took place on May 4, 2009 in Frankfurt am Main. Today, only one draft decision has been introduced on this subject. This is Mr. Vorotnuk's decision. The draft decision by Mr. Lukyanov also refers to other reports of serious abuses on his part. Such an assignment was not given by the Supreme Council. So we can only make decisions about the Frankfurt-on-Mine situation. If we vote on this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u113	Please finish the sentence, finish the sentence.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u114	If we vote on the draft decree of the Gateman, then we can only consider the draft decree made by the Lukyans on other reports of possible abuse, but it is a separate procedure that we should consider by agreement of the Conciliation Council or 226 votes put into the Hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, I must tell you that if we needed 226 votes to bring this matter up, neither this commission nor this commission were created. Unfortunately, too much regret, we only need 150 votes to address this issue. In large numbers, respectable colleagues, and previous questions, and these questions, we would have to wait for a decision to be taken by the committee. But since we have made a previous decision, we should also consider these decisions. And the drafters insist that this is not an alternative. And judging by the name, it can't be formally an alternative. And we're considering, essentially, the same question, we can make two decisions. That's why I'm addressing you, Your Honor, if we follow logic, we follow the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, we must now not vote in favour of the first or the second decree. Once the decisions are not supported, the proposals, we're going to make changes, or we're going to rule out the second item, or we're going to rule out the second item, about creating the appropriate commission, because we've gone the wrong way: we already have the TSC, one of which is already there. If we don't, we're going to have three commission investigators, and no decision will be made, you know that. So we can agree in this way, in order for common sense and logic to work: now we don't support any decision, and then we can remove the relevant item, the Cabinet of Ministers is doing the service investigation -- let's do the service investigation, that's all. Is such an offer supported or not? Well, then we're going to create three commissions of investigators. We can't, because we have to finish the discussion. This is the same thing as the previous problem. We need to finish our consideration of the matter. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u116	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, I am addressing representatives of the largest factions and I am addressing the Head of the Supreme Council. Vladimir Mikhailovich, no one is saying that we are not concluding this issue, we will conclude it. But you do not have the right to announce a recess to consult on the conclusion of this matter. And I think the faction leaders will agree, the faction leaders will agree on the head of this commission, and we'll create one commission and get out of this colossal. The more we have before the break, the more we have literally a few left. Seven minutes. I would like the heads of the largest factions to support my proposal to announce the break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, this proposal is very good, but when there was a proposal on the previous issue during the break to discuss and find a common position on the "Inter" commission, there was a clear objection. Now you want to frame me so I don't do it, and now I'm doing it. Then we had to support the offer I made. To conduct a proper consultation, doing so accordingly during a break at 3:00 p.m. That's what I offered to do. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has categorically refused, and now we need to look into this issue, so please note, I am addressing every national MP. If we have an understanding, dear colleagues, don't support these two draft regulations, because there will be three commissions of inquiry. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Decree, registration number 4483 on the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the circumstances of the incident involving the Minister of Interior of Ukraine Lucenka, which took place on 4 May 2009 at Frankfurt am Main Airport. [[Germany]] [[11:55:35]] For 214 Decision taken. Please now vote on the draft Decree 4495. Dear colleagues, here comes the vote! Please! You asked for absurdity. I ask you once again: the voting process is under way! I would like to put to the vote a draft decree establishing the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the incident involving the Minister of Interior of Ukraine Lucenka, which took place on 4 May 2009, and other reports of possible abuses on his part. Well, please make the situation absurd. [[11:56:29]] For 205 Decision taken. So we have three commission investigators. Let's see what the results are. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u118	Dear National Deputies! We're continuing the meeting. Please invite the national deputies to the session room. The draft Act on the Number of Armed Forces 2009-2011 is announced for consideration. But before we do that, we need to put it in the order of the day. So once again, in order for us to include this issue in the agenda, please invite the national deputies to the session room. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? We need to include in the agenda a bill on the number of Ukrainian Armed Forces for 2009-2011. I'd like to ask my respectable colleagues to prepare for registration. Or will the Supreme Council wait for you to come in, finish your discussions? Once again, dear colleagues, please come into the session room. We must now vote in order of the day, as it relates to the number of the Armed Forces. I ask the National Deputies to join the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I understand that political issues have been resolved, and no one is interested in the state. I'm asking you to think before he says anything there, Your Honor. And I'm not throwing a pearl in front of you, because there's no one to shoot it in front of. So calm down there, who's so smart? I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the Ukrainian Armed Forces Bill 2009-2011. Please vote, please vote. [[12:34:55]] For-54 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the Ukraine Presidential Approval Act on the admission of the forces of other states to Ukraine in 2009 to participate in multinational military training. Please make a decision. [[12:35:37]] For 190 The decision is not taken. I bet. Please, the head of Anatoly Grizzenko's committee, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u119	Anatoly Grizzenko. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I spoke to the people of various factions before the question was put to the vote. Unfortunately, there are two issues here: the first issue is essentially the bill, and the second question is the responsibility of the defence minister for failing to comply with current legislation. In particular, the national MPs were torn down by the fact that the previous Law on Number, adopted by the Supreme Council for the eighth year, had not been implemented by the Minister of Defence. So I'd like to divide these two questions, and if the Conciliation Council were to consider the responsibility of the minister, I've also written to you to the Attorney General about the failure of the Defence Minister of the Number Law for the past year. But there may be a general agreement between the national deputies and the factions after the break to return to the consideration of these important issues. They need armies, whether or not they will be Minister Yuri Yehanurov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, we have a meeting of the Conciliation Council at 3 p.m. I ask, first of all, the faction leaders to be, and I would also ask the head of the Anatoly Stepanovich committee to be, to discuss this issue. It is quite obvious that we have to include in the agenda, and what decision will be taken by the Supreme Council will be the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So let's keep working. I'm voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Support and the Features of the Functioning of the Children's Centres "Artek" and "Young Guards". Registration number 4231, 4231-1, 4231-2. Please vote. [[12:37:56]] For 370. Decision taken. The rapporteurs are Ukrainian national deputies Kostenko, Heratchenko and Igor Popov, President of Ukraine. Who's in charge? Please, Matthew Anatoly.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u121	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" block. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am addressing you, as far as we have in this chapter for inclusion in the agenda and decision-making, there are other projects that you have just announced. Maybe we should vote everyone to include them. People who are invited here will know whether they should wait or not. Because when we vote, then we don't include people wasting their time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u122	The point is, all of these bills are very important. I am confident that the Supreme Council of Ukraine will support them. We're already in the process of reviewing the laws that I've announced, so we can't interrupt the consideration of the issue right now. So I invite Paul Ivanovich Kostenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u123	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Supreme Council of Ukraine is being reviewed by a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Support and Features of the Functioning of the Children's Centres “Artek” and “Youth Guards”. [[Registration number 4231]] The bill proposes to allow the rental of children's property to accommodate pharmacy kiosks, ATMs that meet the needs of Artek and the Young Guard, and to prohibit the sale of property secured by children's centres in order to avoid any threat to life and health. The main difference between this bill and two alternatives is that the bill is currently proposed not to define the total area of Artek and the Young Guard. I would like to remind you that the Supreme Council of Ukraine decided on 3 March this year to inventory the lands of the Artek Children's Centres and the Youth Guards. According to this decree, the government has been instructed to conduct appropriate land inventory within a period of three months. The second point of the government's decision is on the basis of land inventory materials to submit proposals to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to clarify the areas and boundaries of the Artek and Youth Guard children's centres, which are not subject to alienation under the law. Moreover, according to the current legislation, Ayu-Dag cannot be alienated because he already has a landowner. The Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism, at its meeting on 15 April this year, reviewed draft laws amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support and the Functioning of the Children's Centres Artek and Youth Guard, amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on State Support and the Functioning of the Children's Centres Artek and Youth Guard. [[Registration number 4231, 4231-1, submitted by Ukrainian National Deputies Heratchenko, Bonadenk, Vasuk, Samoylik, Kondratjuk]] [[Registration number 4231-2, submitted by the President of Ukraine]] The committee unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support and the Functioning of Children should be considered in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u124	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u125	the operation of the children's “Artek” and “Youth Guard” and accept it as a basis. [[Registration number 4231]] Once the land inventory of the Artek Children's Centres and Youth Guards has been completed and the government has made appropriate proposals, they will be taken into account in the second reading of the bill. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u126	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko, Ukrainian national deputy, is invited to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u127	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! I want to say that now in the Artek Children's Centre camp, just like the Youth Guard, the high season begins and it is only on a government order for 2009 that 17,000 681 children will be healed there. And the state has to make a trip to 73 million 414 thousand dollars. Of course, the Supreme Council of Ukraine did a great deal when we adopted a law two months ago that ensured the operation of the former pioneer camp and now the children’s center of Artek. But there are still a few questions that have not been resolved. One of them has already sounded a colleague of mine from BUTU, Mr. Pavlenko, who really needs us there to allow us to rent a rental based on children’s property centers, such as pharmacy kiosks, post office. This is necessary for those who work in the camp, and there are 2,000,400 workers working there during the summer. But it is also necessary for the camp to have an area that, historically, traditionally belongs to the “Artek” camp, particularly Ayu-Dag. It is particularly necessary that we, our distinguished colleagues, do this in the pre-election period so that it is not the same as in 2004, when, under the noise of Artec, it was simply that the then authorities stole Glycinia. So right now we have to legislatively secure this territory, which is more than two hectares and belongs under Aju-Dag, under the Au-Dag boarding house, so that we can legally secure it behind the camp. We know that there are a lot of court decisions concerning those illegal land decisions after the removal of the Artek area, but the Gurzuf authorities do not implement them. Therefore, the higher legislature is to protect the pioneer camp, the former and now the children’s center. I want to say that it is not only my signature under the bill, but under it are the signatures of the deputies from all the factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, women who are very busy with problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u128	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u129	And Mrs. Samoylik of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Mrs. Bondarenko of the Party of Regions, Mrs. Kondratuk of BUT, Mrs. Vaszuk of the “Block of Lithuania”, I think it is very important that at the time of drafting the Bill the factions are united around this bill. And I ask the factions to support it in the same way during the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u130	A representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Igor Popov, is invited to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u131	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, the distinguished Ukrainian national MPs, the President in his bill repeats the remarks he made in his remarks to the first law that was passed, but then the veto was overcome, we understand that then around Artek there were quite resonant events and, of course, that law had to be passed. But now these are the same proposals that were and vetoed, and I'm going to stop at them again. First, the bill proposes a ban on the rental of property secured by the Artek Children's Centres and the Youth Guard on the right of knowledge other than property transferred to the lease for the placement of pharmacy kiosks, engineering facilities, communications, ATMs. The other one. It is predicted that land that is owned by the State and is not subject to alienation of land that is clearly established. This size includes 2.8 hectares of former Ayu-Dag boarding house with a beach area. And thirdly, it is proposed to prohibit the establishment of a property service at the Artek and Young Guard Children's Centres on the right to agricultural knowledge, as well as the land areas provided by this children's centre for continuous use. I mean, right now, I want to draw your attention to the fact that the issue of Ayu-Dag needs to be fixed from the very beginning, so that really in a difficult situation no one can privatize and that we don't have to force the children to strengthen the pioneer delegations and so on in the "Artek" itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u132	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion if you're interested. A recording of the performance is being made. Please put the name of the national MPs on the board. Deputy Volintz, Communist faction. Please. Who will be speaking, Catherine Samuel? Please, Catherine Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u133	Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to support the bill that was presented to you by the second, because it foresees very specific actions. I want to remind all of you that before the last elections, we have lost Glycinia. And if we don't make an urgent statement that the area in almost 3 hectares of the coastal zone belongs to "Artec," then after these presidential elections we will lose these areas. I ask you very much, today it is suggested that this law be adopted in the first reading. But we've discussed all the problems in the President's veto, and we've agreed to all the positions that are being proposed today. And that is why I am asking you all to support the bill presented by the Ukrainian National Women's Deputies, including me to secure the territory forever behind the Youth Guard and the Artek. And I suggest, Vladimir Mikhailovich, there's nothing to think about -- to adopt this law in the first and second readings.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u134	Thank you. National MP of the Black Sea, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u135	Dear colleagues! In particular, I appeal to the distinguished voters living in the village of Gurzuf in the territory of the “Artek” pioneer camp. I have already talked twice about the problem that exists in this territory. People, residents, 200 or so families live there and some houses cannot be reached simply through the Gurzuf settlement. And we have to leave Arteca territory, and there have been cases where the cars haven't missed. And this is happening in Yalta over and over again, and it is not necessary to say that it is the Party of the Regions that has established its power. The Arteka leadership has been appointed by the Presidential Administration, and we know this very well since the beginning of the two thousand years. Respectable people cannot be allowed to ban the establishment of waiters in this territory, so we forget about people. We're all here worrying about our constituents, telling them what their problems are. Here's the problem with 200 families: you can't get to your own home. Helicopter's locker has to be transported. And we're those waiters again, and someone's insisting on this. Besides, what are we talking about? We are saying that the supposed leadership of Arteca, appointed here with Kiev, may be in violation. We have no other influence on this leadership to prevent it from violating it, or we will watch it, thereby ignoring these 200 families. I am firmly opposed to adopting this bill, which prohibits waiters from entering into land contracts in the territory. And I will not vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u136	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u137	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to address you, because for six months now my decision on Glycinium has probably been registered, and it does not come out here. I know she didn't want to go out because Glycinia is a part of it, it's a pearl today that refers to the Artek property, but it's actually torn apart, because it's a park that still belonged to the king. And then he belonged to the leaders of the Soviet Union. And he's still, he's not well enough yet, I'm answering to who. And the solution was to make this decision. But because it's on the balance sheet, because we've been allocating funds in the budget, and they haven't been deliberately taken, that's why they want to make it look like it's gone. So far, Glycinia exists. And I wish we could get it back to the state. That's the first one. The other one. Here's all the bills in front of me. Bills: the first to report, the second and the President's bill. The second bill and the bill and the President's bill differ very, very little, except that what the President proposes and another third paragraph brings here to article 2 of the Law. And the same goes for the area that belonged to the former Ay-Yudahu and so on. So, in my opinion, the bill passed by Heratchenko, Bondarenko, Vaszuk, Samylik and Kondratjuk is the first. The other one. We need to give protocol now, Vladimir Mikhailovich, the government and government of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, so that residents living in Gurzuf can be, as he spoke of today and Montenegro, have a peaceful passage and have normal cooperation with them. I think this law should be adopted in the first reading and in general. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u138	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u139	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues! Here were the authors of the legislative initiative, the subject of the legislative initiative with three legal options. In principle, all these laws about the same thing and each of them has a rational grain, just there is a difference in maybe one or the other. And I think it's the case, or it's the case where you have to take everything better that's in three, it's like they're alternative, not completely alternative bills. Because I am convinced that the subjects of the legislative initiative came out of a perfectly good position to protect "Artec". And what colleague Pavel Kostenko suggested to me at all seems indisputable, because today there is no inventory of Artek's property, there is no inventory of the land belonging to Artek. By the way, it's not just "Artec," but it's been so interesting that we don't have an inventory of the land in Crimea at all. And apparently if it were inventoryd, the World Congress of Crimean Tatars, which is now taking place, would have fewer arguments for the benefit of what is serious abuse in the Crimea. And that's why I think the honourable colleagues that one of these bills could possibly be the first to be accepted as a basis, but certainly taking into account all the positives that are in the second and third bills. And one more thing, maybe it's a retreat, but it seems important. Everyone here is so calmly aware that 3 hectares were cut off in Artek. They took you, they took you. Tell me, please, what do we have in our bills right now, don't let it go on? Is it possible that someone in Crimea would be responsible for stealing acres of coastal land? It's a simple insolent, sudden theft! Stealing the Black Sea Coast! I think it's a very serious question. And I'm asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u140	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u141	I now ask that my statement be counted as a request to the Attorney General's Office, a further request where it is necessary to punish those people who, by their machining, are taking the land not only "Arteca", but generally on the Crimean coast.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u142	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The committee's proposal to adopt Bill 4231 on the basis of the proposals contained in the following Bills 4231-1, 4231-2. I am voting on the adoption of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support and the Features of the Functioning of the Children's Centres "Artek" and "Young Guards". [[Registration number 4231]] Please vote. This is the people's deputy Kostenko, please. What, then, do you show that you do not want to make decisions? [[12:56:09]] For-164 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the adoption of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support and the Features of the Functioning of the Children's Centres "Artek" and "Young Guards". [[Registration number 4231-1]] Please vote. [[12:56:43]] For 389 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, one minute. We have a lot of complaints about us adopting laws, and then we need to work on them. The proposal was accepted as a whole. What position, well, please, if there's no objection, I'll put it in. What is the position of the committee? The committee doesn't mind? He doesn't mind. None of the national MPs deny it? No, it's not. In view of the fact that no one objects, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and generally as a bill of draft law, registration number 4231-1, amending the Law on State Support and the Features of the Functioning of the Children's Centres Artek and Youth Guard, please vote. [[12:57:49]] For 394 Decision taken. Catherine Semenovna, is that all right? Well, that's it. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda and to adopt a decision on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to encourage the development of space activities. Registration numbers 4354, 4354-1. Please vote. [[12:58:29]] For 362 Decision taken. The report is welcomed by the Director - General of the National Space Agency, Zinchenko Alexander Alexiyovich. Second, the Head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Sergey Anatoliyovich Teryohin, will speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u143	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Your opinion is proposed by the Ukrainian Act to amend some of Ukraine's laws to encourage the development of space activities. The adoption of this law requires the restoration of the mechanism of State support for space-related enterprises in accordance with the laws of Ukraine on space activities and State support for space activities, the creation of favourable conditions for the further development of missile-space production in the interests of the national economy, science, education, state security, and the implementation of international commitments to international space projects: Sea Launch, Ground Start, Cyclone-4, Dnipro-Tauers-2 and others. The bill provides for amendments to some of Ukraine's tax laws, such as Ukraine's "On Land Pay", "On Added Cost Tax", "On Business Income Taxation" and "On One Customs Tariff" (for the restoration at the legislative level until the first of January 2015 of mechanisms to stimulate the development of Ukrainian space enterprises, as provided for by Ukraine's 2000 law, 1559 "On State support for space activities" with a view to ensuring the development of space-related sub-entities and the implementation by Ukraine of international obligations. Regrettably, the adoption on 21 March 2005 of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget 2005 marked out the rules on State support for space activities. This has led to a significant deterioration in the financial and economic performance of enterprises, a decrease in the dynamics of their development, a decrease in competitiveness. Let me give you a few examples: the amendment of the Ukrainian Law on Value Added Tax. In view of the fact that long-term contracts without VAT have already been concluded at the time of the adoption of the law, space enterprises have an annual cost of up to 50 million. That's right. The Cabinet of Ministers bill was drafted within one month on the committees of the Supreme Council. And in general, we agree, our cooperation is extremely fruitful, and a document that is improved in standard-setting ethics, normative practices, technology, and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u144	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u145	I thought it was a one-order document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u146	Thank you, too. Sergey Anatolyovich Teryohin, please. Get ready for the Royal Natalia.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u147	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! The Supreme Council Committee on Tax Customs Policy at its April 28th meeting reviewed draft laws to amend some of the laws of Ukraine to promote space activities, introduced by Kabmin at registration number 4354, and to amend some of the laws of Ukraine on space activities introduced by the People’s Deputies at registration number 4354-1. Having received a government project to provide State support for space activities for consideration, the committee responded responsibly to its work. A working group was established, and two meetings were prepared and held as a result of which the decision was taken to develop and implement an alternative project based on a government project, but it details all the novels proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and links this activity with ratified Supreme Council projects such as the Sea Launch, the Cylon-4, and others that may be ratified by the Supreme Council in the future. That is, the emphasis is on the mechanisms for Ukraine’s compliance with the obligations set out in ratified international agreements. The introduction of the bill per year will result in a reduction in the budget of 80 million dollars, which is expected to be compensated in much higher prices this year, which is about 126 million dollars, tax payments in the implementation of the “Cyclonal-4” and the continuation of the “Sea Start”, i.e. a general positive effect on the budget of the bill. According to the general conclusion of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration, Bill 4354-1 can be adopted on the basis of some observations. Following the drafting of Bill 4354-1 by the government and the national agency, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economics proposes to vote on its first reading, i.e. fraction one. And in general, because all the remarks are agreed upon.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u148	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u149	In addition, some of the comments made by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration are also resolved because this bill takes effect from the new fiscal year, i.e. it does not foresee a reduction in revenue, or a change in revenue from the current State budget. We propose to re-adopt Bill 4354-1 as fully consistent with the government on the basis and as a whole. And thank the committee and the government for their fruitful work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u150	Have a seat, please. From the Natalia Juryovna Kraljevska Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u151	Respected colleagues, the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship have considered a bill amending some Ukrainian laws to encourage the development of space activities. And by moving forward a little bit, I would like to say that the committee immediately supported the bill, because we believe that the space industry for today is a high-tech industry and our country has a very high level of competitiveness in this area. But in time, they need serious State support, and Ukraine can do what nine out of ten countries in the world cannot do. And today, we are the fifth country in the world to develop space technologies, that's prestigious, that's useful and we need to support that. It is today that space brings us into the countries of the world with which we will be considered to be known in the world and in the metal industry and in agriculture, but it is space that is a serious brand for Ukraine. Yes, there is a serious flaw in this bill that its implementation will underpayment some 90 million bracelets per year, and that is not enough. But on the other hand, we understand that the expected income from the budget as a result of the implementation of all the provisions of the bill will exceed much more than that amount from work. At the time the Committee considered the bill, an alternative bill 4354 had not yet been introduced. We therefore agreed that it was necessary to support Bill 4354-1 today, although the Committee's decision was 4354. And we believe that, in any case, the situation in the space sector needs to be brought in order today, and that support is needed, and all members of the committee have unanimously expressed the need to support the bill. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u152	Thank you. Sign up for the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u153	Yes, there's a record to discuss. Please remove the names of the national MPs. Jaroslav Suhi. Get ready for Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, we're going to propose Bill 4354-1 as a whole. The logic of my proposal follows. She's political. If the first statements made by the Ukrainian Government regarding support for domestic high-tech production are filled with real legislative content, if these declarations are filled with a major, real financial, material resource, then in Ukraine there is a chance and a way out of the crisis, and most importantly, there is a chance for dynamic development of all sectors of the national economy. One more. The point is in this bill, these proposals are not about tax benefits. You know, and I think we've already agreed in this session room, any kind of benefits, it's definitely an abuse. It's about changing the rules of the game, it's about changing the tax policy of the industry, which is strategically important to our state. The strategy of the sector is that, according to the multiplicity of space, the military-industrial complex has no equal in involving adjacent industries, they have no equal in the world. And most importantly, once again, I emphasize, it's about high technology, about what happiness Ukraine would be proud of, and about what kind of high income and tax pursuit we almost didn't bury. I want to tell you, this bill, if we support it basically, based on it and in general, can be an extremely positive signal for both the investor and those working groups that have survived the difficult, hard, hard 1990s. Because state support today on the same scale requires aircraft building and engine building for airplanes and shipbuilding and all the industries of the military-industrial complex. I propose that this bill be supported mainly and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u155	Andrew Shkull, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Next is George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u156	Dear fellow national MPs! Dear radios and television audiences! Of course, I, too, would like to believe that the statement of the previous National MP would characterize, not his personal position, but the position of the faction he represents. Because very often a personal position runs counter to the faction. But it's really important, and we're going to take a step. We understand that there is a crisis now, and we understand that every penny is in the account. But we also realize that we cannot now avoid spending money on our future. Because if, in the future, we as a nation were not only getting financial returns and dividends, that would give us a space branch, but we would still be maintaining our presence in space. Let us not forget that Ukraine is one of the few cosmic powers now present in the world. And unfortunately, we're still able to serve others, that is, build satellites, bring them out of orbit around the earth. But we are not yet able to provide our own national needs for the amount of satellite and navigational communication that we need right now. So to support a similar program is, believe me, the sacred duty of every national MP who thinks globally, because he understands that the cost of the budget that we put in today will return to the story. Here I agree with the head of the profile committee, we'll be back tomorrow. And there's nothing to speculate about that these costs could have been spent on something else. All that other money won't save us, but it will give us the opportunity to save the space sector. Unfortunately, too big, it's not going to give us the development direction we need, it's not the development cost, but at least it's going to have a clear effect in the near future. So I urge you to support the Ukrainian space, support the Ukrainian state and vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u157	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u158	Yuri Carmazin. "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense Party." Dear National Deputies! When the National Budget Act was passed, I appealed to the head of the budget committee, to the minister of finance, and to the Prime Minister to ensure that the space sector was properly financed. I've been asking them to keep their brains in the state, because people are just taking off and hunting our scientists in the direct sense of the word. Do these draft laws solve this question, or do they satisfy us to the full? No, Your Honor, they don't satisfy us to the full, these draft laws, either first or second. They satisfy only the minimum that the state can allocate in these crisis situations today. And I'd like to draw the government's attention right now that when those loans are used, and the second and third tranches are used, we're going to allocate the funds there, because the cumulative effect of putting the bracelets there gives us a tenfold addition to the added value. That's why, by comparing these bills, first of all, I want to thank the government for coming to this problem after all, coming back, which is what we've asked both the budget committee and the government to take into account. And I want to thank the National Deputies and Teriochina and Catherine and the Saints and others who, and I would also like to thank the National Deputy of the Royal, who is now informed that the second project is more technically literate, despite the fact that her committee did not have this second project, it was correctly presented here. Apparently getting older yesterday for one day, with which I greet her again! Therefore, distinguished national MPs! Please vote on Bill 4354-1, not 4354 in both the first and second readings, and this will only be a small one.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u159	Yuri Anatolyovich! Thank you! Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u160	Dear colleagues! I would like to remind myself of the history of space. On March 16, 2000, the Supreme Council adopted the Law on State Support for the Space Sector. In this law, adopted in 2000, there were even better conditions to support the space sector than the current government is proposing. But today's government, which was practically in the same composition in 2005, namely, on March 26, 2005 for a proposal, practically, today's government at the time of the adoption of the State Budget 2005 Act, has decided to cancel all benefits related to the space sector. And it is a good thing that those who canceled it returned to return these benefits. There is no doubt that everyone who spoke here spoke about the fact that it is probably one of the few sectors that has a way out of the international arena that actively cooperates with other states. You probably know, especially I, speaking out quite often and actively, had a claim against the committee headed by Sergey Anatoliyovich Teryochin, but today I must say that they must have felt our critical attitude when they considered this bill, acted wisely and in a stately manner. They developed an alternative bill that significantly improves the bill proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers. Because what the Cabinet of Ministers offered is to give everything to the Cabinet and do whatever you want and whatever you want. The committee has done the right thing and offers to do anything you want and when you want to do it in the legislative field. So I call on everyone, and the faction will not vote for a government bill, but for an alternative bill prepared by the people's deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I am putting to the vote first to adopt a government bill to amend some of Ukraine's laws to encourage the development of space activities. [[Registration number 4354]] Government based. [[13:16:10]] For-170. The decision is not taken. A proposal for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on space activities. [[Registration number 4354-1]] Please vote. [[13:16:39]] For 354 Decision taken. Committee, may I have your attention? The committee proposes to accept it, this project as a law. Is there no objection? Is there no objection? So I'm voting on a proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, draft law, registration number 4354-1, to amend some of the laws of Ukraine on space activities. Please vote. [[13:17:23]] For 354 Decision taken. So the law was passed. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The proposal for the inclusion in the agenda and the adoption of a decision on the draft Law amending article 17 of the Supreme Council of Justice Act on the procedure for the making of oaths is put to the vote. Registration number 4375. Please vote. Please vote. [[13:18:03]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, this law was meant to regulate the procedure, the procedure for swearing members of the High Council of Justice. And in particular, I would like to draw attention, and in particular to the oath of the three members of the High Council of Justice, by adopting an appropriate bill. Because the law provides for a time for swearing for two months. In fact, this rule is proposed to remove and essentially give back to the law. So that those chosen before could be sworn. You refused to consider this bill. It's your right. Dear colleagues, your will. Dear colleagues, we agreed with you when the schedule of meetings was clarified that we would decide to include in our day-to-day work a draft law, registration number 4209, is a draft regulation on the social problems of persons with war status when amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009. Since the committee did not consider this draft regulation, we agreed that we would put the issue of the inclusion in the agenda only, with the appropriate commission of the committee, to expedite the introduction to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of this document. I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. Please vote. [[13:20:12]] For 180. The decision is not supported. The offer is not supported. Let's move on to the drafts. The factions? Please. Region Party – 131, "Club of Timoshenko" – 0, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 2, communists – 27, "Club of Lithuania" – 20. Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to the second reading. A draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on social protection for many children is being announced for consideration. The reporter is Suslov Evgen Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u162	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! For consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on the Social Protection of Multi-Children Families is being passed. Registration number 2448, introduced by 05.05.2008 by the President of Ukraine. On 16.12.2008, the draft Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Multi-Children in Ukraine was adopted on the basis of the first reading and taking into account the position of the National Deputies of Ukraine Suhim and Petrov. [[Registration number 2474]] The Committee on Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism received 54 proposals and amendments to the bill, including 23 amendments and 31 amendments. As a matter of fact, it's an amendment. Amendments number one, second, third and 52 are rejected because they do not meet the legal requirements.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, let's go to the repairs. Then you're going to give an argument, and we're going to be every correction, if the author insists and the amendment, then we're going to go in order. Is there no objection? Then, Eugene Ivanovich, we will go this way: as amended. Amendment number one, Jaroslav Suhi. Now he's arguing, and then you're the committee's position.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u164	No, they're just similar, they're repairs, and we're a couple of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u165	Well, he's arguing right now, and then you're going to express your point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! I'm going to the session room. Remember, there was this conflict: we could adopt a law that was clear, where it was said: “the social charter of a multi-child family and the measure of social protection”. Well, it just so happens that we had to support the president's bill. And they supported a bill called “To Change Certain Legislative Acts”. They are found to be 17 that complicates the work of both social services and families with one document on their hands. That is why we and my colleague Ungurian and Petrov propose to call this bill: “On the status and social protection of many children's families in Ukraine and on the amendment of certain legislative acts”. This is about the first proposal. And the same way I'm going to talk about the offer of a friend who clearly writes both social status and what is the measure of social protection. After that, you can do it. All of our other proposals are taken off the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u167	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u168	The committee's proposal is to reject amendment number one, two, three, 52, what Jaroslav Mikhajlovich said. We considered these amendments on the committee. Well, since the bill was passed by the president, not the people's deputies, it completely changes essentially, let's say, the bill. Although it is clear that it would probably be more appropriate to support the bill of MPs. It's the only bill that could be used and it would be convenient to use everything in this area. But since he was not supported, the committee does not support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u169	Dear colleagues! I put to the vote amendment number one of the national MPs Jaroslav Suhigo and colleagues Ungurian and Petrov. [[13:24:22]] For 193 Correction not supported. Amendment two. Please, Jaroslav Suhogo's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, since the amendment is not supported first, voting for the second amendment makes no sense, I take advantage of the opportunity and because I am in the session room, I appeal to the many families who wrote letters and requested this bill. My coauthors and I did everything we could. [[Petrov and Ungurian]] The will of the session room is to make a decision. Unfortunately, I can no longer change anything anymore, so I apologize to those families who receive an imperfect law, which is not clear what a “rich-child family” is and what benefits it will have. So I don't insist, and co-authors, on voting for all of our following amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u171	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u172	Then I suggest that I exclude not only the second, but the third, and the second, the ones that look like them, and remove them.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u173	Jaroslav Suhiy takes his amendments. That's why we're moving on. Fifth Amendment. Vladimir Bondarenko insists on it? No, it's not. Sixth, national deputy of Petrov. I can't see. Yuri Carmazin, the seventh amendment, do you insist on it? He insists. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u174	Yuri Carmazin. Dear national MPs, it is very bad that Jaroslav Suhi is taking away his amendment because she was supplementing this law, making it better. I still think we might go back to that. And my seventh amendment is about a very simple thing -- articles 182-1. [[Additional leave for workers who have children of the Labour Code]] Part of a sentence — 15 years — will change for 17 years, since children will be able to work part-time on their own and help their families. I want to strengthen the protection of parents' rights and children's rights, and I want to reduce the negative situation that's happening today with child crime. So I would ask this room, regardless of the political coloring of any flag that stands above the table right now, to support my amendment and to think about how to go back to the Dryness Correction because it has a rational meaning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u175	Dear colleagues! Bring it on. And please take down the vote, the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u176	Amendment number seven for National Deputy Carmazin, who is proposed to raise the age from 15 to 17 years for a child who is given extra leave for his parents. The committee considers it necessary to reject, because 16-17 years, these are the children who don't need, in our view, extra leave for parents to raise them.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u177	The vote is amended by seven Yuri Karmazin. In order for them to have an extra vacation not until they are 15 years old but 17 years old. [[13:27:41]] For 186 Correction not supported. The next 10th Bonadrenco amendment, no insistence. Petrov, national MP? Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u178	Vladimir Mikhailovich! There is a proposal to unite, because here are ten amendments to these national MPs, which the committee considers to reject if I count them, if the national MPs do.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u179	I'm faster, because then we'll go back when we get through it. Yuri Carmazin the 12th amendment, do you insist on it? It's not voted out, so we need to take a picture. Yuri Anatolyovich, microphone, please. She's responding to the seventh amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u180	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I thank those 189 deputies who supported the first amendment. This amendment to article 19 on additional leave for workers who have children. Once again, it is from 15 to 17 that the most troubled age of children is now. If they have the right to additional leave, these workers who have these children, there is nothing wrong with the state, we raise social standards and reduce crime. We're saying that people, parents can pay more attention to their children. I'd like to ask you to support this amendment. And I also think we should think no. We don't actually touch the budget here at night. It's got to be a man. Birth is encouraged. And please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u181	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u182	The committee against support for this amendment applies to both the 7th and 12th amendments. In fact, the conclusions are not just a committee. And because the committee had a profile ministry that expressed their point of view about not supporting the rise of age. And in our view, if this should not only apply to the children of many children, and if you look at it, you should review the bill as a whole, the law on vacations that you can afford. It's like kids. Regarding many children, the committee considers that there is no need to raise the age limit.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u183	Dear colleagues! In accordance with the request of the national MP, the amendment, I am voting on the 12th amendment. The author is Yuri Karmazin. [[13:30:19]] For 172 Correction not supported. The 14th Yuri Carmazin amendment, please, if you insist, is a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u184	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I propose in paragraph 3 in the first part of article 11 the right to out-of-office housing or residential housing units from the housing fund of the Ukrainian Social Assignment Act, where it is written: the right to out-of-town housing or residential housing units from the housing fund of a social purpose for which they have the right to receive such housing, to replace part of the sentence “remnants” with “14 years” and part of the sentence “14 years” with “16 years” by the following texts: “The former minors who have not reached the age of 16 years at the time of imprisonment, prisoners of concentration camps, ghettos and other cities of compulsory detention who are recognised as disabled from general illness, labour shortage and other reasons. Here's what I'm asking you to vote for. We're also raising the billboard, allowing for greater protection of these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u185	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u186	Amendment 14 of the Karmazin People’s Deputy, which refers to former juveniles, concentration camps, and so forth, does not apply to the rules of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u187	Amendment 14 of Yuri Karmazin is put to the vote. [[13:32:05]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Amendment 17. Bondarenko insists on it? No, it's not. 18th, Crutch, correction. Don't insist. Bondarenko, 19th. No, it's not. Yuri Carmazin, 20th. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please. Let's do the 20th and the 21st right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u188	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment applies to article 12, paragraph 10, in which I propose that it be the 20th and 21st, to be presented in such an editorial. Paragraph 10: “Singular mothers, parents, families with three or more children and two children at the same time.” I would like to remind you that it is currently written “with one woman”, i.e. there is discrimination between parents. Next. It's about 21st. As for paragraph 21, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Paragraph 6 of the first part of article 12 of the Ukrainian Housing Fund for Social Purpose Act should be made available in such an edition. “The former juveniles, who at the time of imprisonment were 17 years old, are prisoners of concentration camps, ghettos, other places of forced labor.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u189	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u190	Other places of coercion created by the Fascist Germany and its allies during the Great Homeland War and World War II, as well as children born in the designated places of forced custody of their parents.” I think that now that May celebrations are still going on, we continue to celebrate our liberators, just as this article is appropriate in this law, and we have to take care of these people, the more they are completely, completely units. So I'd like to ask you to support the standard of gender equality between men and single parents who have three or more children and if two children are born at the same time and this amendment 21. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u191	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, Amendment No. 18 proposes editorial changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u193	The 20th.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u194	Yeah, yeah. 20th. Editorial changes: “Familys and single mothers, parents who have three or four children, for three or more children”, leads to narrowing down the category of benefits and housing. The committee proposes not to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u195	An amendment to the 20th vote, by Yuri Karmazin. Please vote. [[13:35:16]] For-137 No correction supported. The factions, please. Region Party – 105, “Clock Timoshenko” – 1, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 2, Communists – 27, “Clock of Lithuania” – 2. 21 revisions. May I have your attention, please? The 21th Amendment of Yuri Karmazin is put to the vote. [[13:35:50]] For-144 Correction not supported. Furthermore, amendments that are not supported by national deputies Bondarenko, Petrova, do not insist on them. All other amendments are included. Please, a closing statement from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u196	Ladies and gentlemen, please accept the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to some Ukrainian legislative acts on the Social Protection of Multi-child Families on second reading and, as a whole, as a law, by setting a date for the introduction of the Act on 1 January 2011. The committee. The committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u197	Dear colleagues! The committee's decision reads: “This law takes effect as of 1 January 2010.” We have to respond accordingly until I see another committee decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u198	Vladimir Mikhailovich! I'm sorry, this must be a mistake, because the committee had a meeting for the second time, I'm just going to report to the committee that had a meeting where amendments to the decision were made. And the Supreme Council has the right to decide.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u199	Dear colleagues! I would like to stress once again that the text and documents received by the Supreme Council through the General Legal Office contain the date “from 1 January 2010”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u200	Yes! Calm down! We will vote "from 1 January 2010". Therefore, dear fellows! A draft Law for adoption in the second reading and in general is introduced as the Law that takes effect on January 1, 2010. Registration number 2448. Regarding amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on social protection for many children. Please vote. [[13:38:12]] For 211 Dear colleagues! What's the reason? I want to say again, dear colleagues! If the committee's decision, give it in writing, it doesn't have it, there's only a table comparable and it's considered here, it says "since 1 January 2010". If we're improvising, we'll put a lot of emphasis on it! So give the decision to the committee. The factions, please. Region Party – 137, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 2, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 26, Communists – 27, “Litvina Block” – 19. Dear colleagues, please, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u201	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich and the Honourable Reporter! I'm asking you, I'm paying attention to the reporter and the chairman. No committee, no Supreme Council, is the subject of a legislative initiative. If there had been an amendment from one of the national MPs, the President or the Cabinet of Ministers that this law had been introduced since January 1, 2011, she would have had the right to life. The committee's decision is not, the committee, once again, I stress, is not the subject of a legislative initiative. So you have absolutely no right to make such a proposal. That's the first one. The other one. I ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to put it again, to go back to voting on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u202	Dear colleagues, there was a similar offer from the reporter. About going back, about going back to the bill, registration number 2448. I'm voting for a return to the draft Law, registration number 2448. Please vote. [[13:40:32]] For 380 Decision taken. We went back to reviewing the draft Law. An offer is now being made. Vote? Please, then, we have Paul Sulkowski and Andrew Kožemiakin, who raised their hands on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u203	Dear colleagues! You know, it hurts a lot. I was raised in the family of twelve children. And when all politicians are going, and with populist slogans all over Ukraine saying what they think, they are experiencing the future of Ukraine, and by their vote today, they have confirmed that the BUT faction has virtually self-sustained from this important event in Ukraine. That is why I urge you now, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, to return to the vote and personally ask you to inform the entire Ukraine in the Voice of Ukraine, in the newspaper, the personal vote of the People's Deputy. This bill is huge, it's really the future of Ukraine, and today, as no one else, many children live in Ukraine because of the policies of the country's weak politicians.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u204	Andrew Kožemiakin, please microphone, fraction of BUT.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u205	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! There was a proposal from the committee to amend the bill and replace it with 2011 instead of 2010. If this change is made, our faction in full will vote in favour of this bill. We're on a faction this morning, we've been informed by the committee manager that this amendment, this proposal has been tabled and voted on the committee positively. So if this amendment is now agreed upon, we vote. If not, then our offer is second again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u206	Dear colleagues, let me give you some information. The point is that the draft law introduced by the President of Ukraine contained such a thesis in the final positions that the law took effect on January 1, 2009. At the same time, in the process of preparing for second reading, the Ukrainian national deputies made the following proposal: Part One, chapter III, in such an edition. [[Jaroslav Suhi, Paul Ungurian and national deputy Petrov]] “This Law takes effect from January 1st 2010.” The committee took into account other proposals from entities, i.e. those entitled to the legislative initiative, but they did not. And the committee could benefit from such a right in the person of the national MPs who would suggest a precise editorial. This was not done, and then the committee's proposal, it's illegal, and that's because the committee doesn't have this proposal today. That's why we have nothing to put to the vote. And since we have returned to the consideration of the law in the second reading, I have only one right to vote on adoption in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of amendment to some Ukrainian legislation on the social protection of multi-child families. Please cancel the vote. My colleague Klukkowski. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u207	Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I think we're forgetting the possibility that the Rules provide as an amendment to the amendment, and so I think it's worth considering a reasonable amendment to the 11th year amendment to the Supreme Council. Why not? Let's vote on this amendment. We have, by the way, not very good, but the practice of voting from the voice of some things that might not be worth voting for, and here everyone agrees with the logic of this amendment. Then why not?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u208	Dear colleagues, I'll put it to a vote, but there was no such proposal. It wasn't. I'll be right there. We're back to consideration, dear colleagues. We'll vote. Anna Herman. Well, someone else, please, from the faction then. The head of the committee, if you please. Well, Mikhailo Chechetov, please. Identify yourself as one of you. Hanna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u209	Thank you. Dear colleagues, first. This amendment to the written amendment is neither available nor available. That's the first one. The other one. I understand that he has one year to live. When the government is very busy, what concern do they have that one year of life means a great deal to many families? And if the law comes into force on January 1, 2010, it means that we will make life easier for many families for a very long time. I call on the Yulia Timoshenko Block, which also has mothers, to take into account the needs of many children's families and to vote for this bill today. You cannot put your political interests above the interests of many hundreds of large families in Ukraine who desperately need our help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u210	Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. I suggest you don't insist, I'll put it in. Because we're going into discussion, but we can't have a discussion. Let's do it this way. Klukkowski, a national deputy, has the right, since we have returned to the second reading, to propose amendments to this amendment, namely that this law takes effect on 1 January 2011. I'm going to put this amendment to the vote, you're going to define yourself, and then we're going to vote finally. So I put this amendment to the vote: that the law is in force as of January 1, 2011. Please determine how to vote. Please make up your mind. [[13:47:06]] For 197 Dear colleagues, “yes”-197, the amendment is not accepted. And now I'm asking you, I'm going to put it to a second-reading vote and generally as a law. Please, let's adopt the law, then let's take a look at it. I am voting on the proposal: the adoption of a second reading and generally as a bill of the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the social protection of multi-child families. [[Registration number 2448]] Please vote. Please vote. [[13:47:48]] For 241 The law is passed. The factions, please. Party of Regions – 160, “Block of Timoshenko” – 1, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 33, Communists – 27, “Block of Lithuania” – 20. Dear colleagues, please calm down. We continue the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 15 minutes, that is, 14 hours 15 minutes. And a draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to counter illegal engulfment and take-over of businesses is being tabled. The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Kseniya Mikhailn Leapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u211	Thank you, Your Honor. The bill, prepared for second reading by the committee, received 58 amendments. Many of them are included. The bill refers to changes to a number of laws, such as the Code of Economic Procedure, the Civil Procedure Code, the State Registration Act, the Securities Act, the Stock Market and so on. Please support, well, and see if there are any adjustments that you insist on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u212	Dear colleagues! We're mostly in the process of making adjustments. But some are rejected. In particular amendment number seven. The first one? Sorry, so far we're not giving Carmazin, after the first amendment, Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u213	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, since the name of the law has been changed, we are obliged to vote on the first amendment. I mean, the name of the law has been changed. That's the first one. The other one. I'm surprised that by changing the name of the law they did exactly what's right, because the title of the law fits the meaning, but I'm surprised why this committee was doing this bill. What's the point of entrepreneurs here if you're making changes to the legislation on liability? It's a completely different committee. But that's the point. It's too late. And on the first, let's vote on a change in the title of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u214	Please, Kseniya Mikhailna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u215	Thank you. I support the first amendment to change the name of the law. But I want to point out that this improvement in jurisdiction is primarily about entrepreneurs. It's about registration, about property registration, about property rights. So the opposition to those negative phenomena, the raids that we've seen, unfortunately, last time. This is our active opposition, not our observation. So I think we also had the right to consider it. But it's already, well, it's like the fact that it happened. Yeah. But please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u216	Dear colleagues! Amendment number one. She's supported by a committee. But we need to support it by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I'm putting this first amendment to the vote and I'm asking you to support it. [[13:51:10]] For-198 Correction not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u217	Dear colleagues from the U.S. This is your colleague's amendment to the Royal Natalia, I don't understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u218	It's a fractional right, so let's move on. The factions? Please. Region Party – 126, Block Timoshenko – 2, Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense – 37, Communists – 26, Block Lithuania – 6. Amendment number seven, Yuri Carmazin, would you please insist on it? Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin’s microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u219	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! First of all, the question to you, which was already raised today by the distinguished Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, that this committee should not have considered these amendments, at least it should have considered them with the committee on which I work on the issues of justice. Because we don't go to a dentist if we have to see a gynecologist and vice versa. But in this case, that's the case. So I propose a part of article 41, part five, to put it in such a situation as this. In the cases provided for in paragraph four, part of the first article 12 of this Code, the Master Court may require the conclusion of a public commission of securities and a stock market by a public figure who is warned of the consequences of refusing to reach a conclusion. The point is to get the court to take a proper look at the case, and this is what it is about.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u220	Please, Kseniya Mikhailna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u221	They don't say no. The government's proposal was to give the commission valuable papers on the stock market the status of an expert. And it was an expert conclusion. The committee considered the issue and rejected the amendment because there cannot be an expert organization that has no right to do so. You know, according to the procedural code, expert conclusions are very clearly formalized. The point is that the Securities Commission can conclude. Yes, Your Honor, Mr. Carmazin, she can still do this today without a proper amendment, we do not prohibit this conclusion, we do not grant him expert status, in this way. Actually, I think you'd have to support that. That's right. That's why we rejected your amendment, Mr. Carmazin. Dear colleagues, it's because the law says it's expertise that we've rejected the government's proposal and Mr. Carmazin's amendment to this proposal. It just doesn't have that position.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u222	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you to discuss the issues, the energy is still a lot, so let's take a break, because we have energy, and we'll work on it. At the same time, honourable colleagues take the vote to Amendment 7, author of the national MP Yuri Karmazin. [[13:54:32]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. 13 amendments. Do you insist on it? No, it's not. Julia Novikova, 15th Amendment, do you insist on her? No, it's not. Microphone, please. Don't insist. The 19th, too, 18th, to be exact. 23rd, Voropeyev, are you insisting on her? No, no, no, no, no, no, no. Yuri Carmazin, the 27th Amendment, please press the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u223	Dear National Deputies, George Carmazin, I would like to ask you, paragraph 11 of the sixth part of article 17, to put it this way: “Acquiesce with an authorized shareholder or member of a limited or additional liability association with a recovery plan when such a plan provides for the exchange of the debtor’s liability on shares or portions of the pie. In such a case, the peace agreement plan shall be sent to the designated authorized person who is obliged to consider and agree on it within a month or to make reasoned observations.” I didn't see the motive behind this amendment being rejected, but I think we'll go a long way if we drag it from one committee to another.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u224	Thank you very much. I want to point out that we have just completely rejected the part that concerns amending the Debtor Recovery Act, because we believe that we need to address this issue with complex changes to this law. Actually, it's at the address, that's where this law needs to be regulated. Therefore, any changes to these articles are automatically rejected. We simply propose that this law should not be amended by this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u225	Dear colleagues! I'm putting the vote to the 27th, the author is the national MP Yuri Karmazin. [[13:57:02]] For the four of us. Correction not supported. Let's move on. Amendment 33. Yuri Carmazin, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u226	Amendment 33. Carmazine. Sounds like it. To supplement the bill by paragraph 2 of part three of article 9 of this paragraph: “The holding of registers of shareholders of listed securities by state shareholdings by 25 per cent and more is carried out by a legal person designated by the Ukrainian State Property Fund, following a tender conducted by them applying the procedures laid down by law for the purchase of goods at State expense, and which has a license to register holders of securities obtained in accordance with the established order.” [[work and services]] So I want to protect registers of stockholders of equity companies where there are 25 percent or more. We see them getting washed up today, getting into an oligarchic structure. That's why I'm asking you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u227	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u228	Dear colleagues! We rejected this amendment for two reasons. First reason. This section did not apply in general to changes in the procedure for determining the register, and this section concerned only the ability to provide or not to provide an expert opinion on the securities commission. In fact, this involved an amendment. And the second reason is because I want to pay attention to the fact that we have adopted the Act on Shareholders, where all roles are assigned: how decisions are made, how decisions are made, where decisions are made. By making a similar proposal now, we are in fact simply “breaking” the Act on Shareholder Associations, which dealt harmoniously with the issue. If the state has the right to vote, it determines where it registers. If not, it is determined by a majority of votes, as laid down and defined by the Act on Shareholder Associations. And it's just a request that you don't "invent a bicycle" because it's already invented and it's "normal" if you use it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u229	Dear colleagues! Amendment 33 of Yuri Karmazin is put to the vote. [[13:59:37]] For-36 The decision is not taken. Amendment 40, Novikova. Don't insist. 41st European amendment. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u230	I would like to draw your attention to the following fact. In all the newspapers of the Russian Federation in February, information was published in March about the new raiding epidemic in Russia. It is bound by the fact that legislation that regulates the activities of the State registrar, which amends the statutes, records changes in the administrations and so on, does not provide for the responsibility or responsibility of the registrar to verify the documents he receives. Specific examples have been given to me in my practice when people, “left people”, who had nothing to do with this particular enterprise, regardless of its form of ownership, “left hand” made a protocol and then brought it to the registrar and changed the leader there. It's purely raiding. With this amendment, I'm trying to fix it. Thus, in order to avoid such facts, it is proposed that such changes be made under the signature and seal of the authorized authority. One. And the second. If you come in with a statement that you've lost your papers.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u231	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u232	And if you're coming to change the statutes for losing the originals, please report back to the police that you lost them and went to the police. I don't mind. And the third amendment is written here, as if it were the essence. consistency. This is a press release on changes in documents. Just so the owners know what's going on with the property.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u233	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u234	I want to pay attention to the following. The last amendment is, in fact, edited because we provide information about the administration of the legal person in the list of data that is found in the register. However, you are absolutely right about the need for a comprehensive change in the State Registration Act, particularly taking into account many aspects of which you have paid attention and have not yet paid attention. And now that we have not yet considered the issue in detail, we have done so deliberately to consider a separate bill on amendments to the State Registration Act, which will increase the responsibility of the registrar for the provision of data. Because it's not here right now. One of the amendments you're proposing is actually correct. But if we just count it now, it won't achieve the right goal. Moreover, the government was firm in insisting that all of this should be done simply, well, in the form of strict reporting and also notarized, i.e. by adding simply the expense of the trouble of the subject in which there is no discussion on property rights. It's just extra expenses. So, please, let's work with you separately on the Law “On State Registration Comprehensively, Dealing With All These Questions That You’re Absolutely Properly Asking About the Responsibility of the State Register. Just requests, colleagues. Now that's in the code of this law, you can't do that right now. To do so is a separate law on amendments to the State Registration Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u235	Dear colleagues, do you insist that the vote be put to the vote? A colleague of the Europeans insists. The vote is therefore amended as number 41. Please vote. [[14:03:27]] For 334 Correction accepted. Then, yes, dear colleagues, it turns out that the amendments 44 and 45 and 47 are automatically taken into account, right? Xenia Mikhailvna, please take a look.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u236	Well, what I'm saying is that right now, the logic of all of these things is changing. I'll ask for a third reading then. Because otherwise, we're going to issue a law now that no state registration officer is going to be able to work on, because it's going to be completely incomprehensible, which documents are being accompanied, and who is giving to whom. Because there was a logic when we prepared it for the second reading. So it's going to have to be re-examined in the new logic to the third reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u237	I totally agree with you. Because the automatic amendments made by my colleague, the 44th, the 46th, the 47th, the 48th, the 49th, they, if we voted before, should be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u238	Otherwise it would just not be possible to find logic in this law at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u239	So let's do this now, dear colleagues. We will not continue to consider, for they will automatically have Adam Martinyuk, please, and we will vote on all the amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u240	Dear colleagues! Logically, it would be a law or a law. Since we are making changes to a series of laws, these amendments to the Law are related to one law alone. If we support and support the amendments of Voropeyev, and they go through, only one law changes. So you don't have to do anything here, not a third, a fourth and a tenth. Because this refers to one of the ten or fifteen that we are looking at here. That's why it makes sense. Let's support Voropeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u241	All other amendments should then be voted on. Please, Kseniya Mikhailvna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u242	Well, of course, then we should vote on the corresponding amendments that you listed. But I'd like to pay attention, dear colleagues. We can take anything. Only then will we go back and make changes. That's the only thing I want to draw your attention to. It's not because we want to or don't want to. They're just going to arise technologically because when we rejected these amendments, we actually rejected the whole block.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u243	Please, 44th Amendment. People's MP Voropeyeva's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u244	There's something I'd like to fix here. Neither the 44th nor the 46th to the last question that we voted with you is in the fight against raiding. It simply clarifies legislation, not more than that, it corrects technical regulations no more. So if it's a hall. From my point of view, these amendments are necessary, and they eliminate conflicts in the law. But if the hall thinks it's not essential, please. It's the other 47th, 48th, and so on. Yes, it's essential there. And there's one more thing I want to say. The year is on your committee, Mrs. Lapina, my bill, which deals only with this issue in the State Registration Act. The committee accepted it on first reading, and you're not taking it to the hall. Therefore, the proposal to wait and finalize a new law was not in agreement with him.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u245	Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u246	I point out that this is a question for the leaders of factions who form the order of the day, not for me. The committee was working on it, and the first reading supported it. And we're willing to report it at any time when faction leaders agree that this should be considered. So please work with your political leaders.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u247	Dear colleagues, 44 amendments to the Vote of the People’s Deputies of Voropeyeva are in place. [[14:07:36]] For 295 Correction accepted. Amendment 45. Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u248	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, we did the right thing by taking into account the amendment of the national MP, Voropeyeva. I want to pay your attention at all, we are now making changes to the Code of Conduct, the Civil Code has already been amended, the Law on Restoration or Recognition of the Debtor, the National Depository System, and especially the electronic circulation of securities in Ukraine. We make such a saltwater by the power of one committee that we have never allowed ourselves to do, because there is a committee of legal policy, there are other committees. What are we doing? We lick hammers in time mechanisms -- this is what we do today, in large numbers. And Martinyuk also explained this to you, and Voropayev, and today they explained it. No, there's a desire to go anyway. If you want to climb, I ask this 45th amendment, which says that a legal person has the right to provide information certified by electronic digital signature. That's exactly what this law is about, and it can put it this way. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u249	Please, Kseniya Mikhailna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u250	Well, actually, we can support this amendment, it's not really going to change anything, but we've come out of the logic that we're essentially redrafting the law on government registration by a separate block. If this logic is not understood now, and the hall really wants to make a “salary” right now, well, actually, this piece won't spoil this salt anymore, it won't improve.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u251	It's the 45th Jury Carmazin vote. [[14:09:34]] For the four of us. Correction not supported. Dear colleagues, we continued to work for 14 hours for 15 minutes. I'd like to finish my consideration of this bill and then announce a recess. 46th Amendment. People's MP Voropeyes. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u252	I've already talked about her. It is no matter what the principle is, it simply clarifies in two bills. Two laws, more specifically, excuse me, please. So as the hall decides, so it will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u253	So, Xenia Mikhailevna, do we vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u254	Well, actually, you can. Once again, I say that our logic was that we separately complete the Law on State Registration. Changes are being made to this law. I predict it's going to end badly in general because then we're going to re-examine it in some other form. But the hall decides what he thinks is necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u255	Dear colleagues, the amendment of the 46th People's Deputies of Voropeyeva is in place. Please vote. [[14:10:48]] For 287 Correction accepted. Similarly, the vote is amended by 47 national deputies, Voropeyeva. Please vote. [[14:11:08]] For 321 Correction accepted. Now it's the 48th People's Deputies of Voropeyeva. Please vote. [[14:11:32]] For 325 Correction accepted. 49th Amendment, People's Deputies of Voropeyeva. [[14:11:53]] For 214 Not supported. Correction is now 51st. Please, the microphone of the national MP Voropeyeva.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u256	That's exactly what this amendment says. Suppose someone comes in, Ivan's, right? He made the protocol with his left hand. He comes in and says, "Lord, here is your decision that I have lost my documents. Please change the originals of the constituent documents, including the registration certificate.” So now, by law, the registrar has to accept this Ivanova, take his statement and change all his documents without checking them, and he lost them, and he didn't lose them, who he is, and so on. This amendment says that it must confirm that they have been lost by the police -- once, it has to do publications and give proof of it -- two, well, so on. And give your own passport to who he is. I therefore propose to vote on this amendment. I insist on her.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u257	Dear colleagues, then we'll have to go back to the 49th. It doesn't make any sense. So let's now vote on all the amendments -- then let's see. We have to go back then, or it's going to break. Please take the seat of the committee. Well, we haven't gotten to 50 yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u258	And the 50th count.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u259	And that's what counts.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u260	50th counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u261	Well, let's put it to a vote if you don't agree. So, dear fellows, we were just looking at the 51st amendment with you. She's voting, that's the amendment. Please vote. 51st, that's where he determines the documents to be re-registered. [[14:13:48]] For 293 Decision taken. Yuri Carmazin denies amendment number 50, please. Well, then let's go back to 49. Come on, there'll be some logic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u262	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Look what's being done in this project right now. The project was written down, in that we accepted the options, when documents to amend information about the legal person in the Single State Register are presented to the person in charge of the executive body, the legal person, the public registry, and the passport. If such documents are submitted by the authorized person of the congregation or by another authorized person, the legal person, the State registryer shall be presented with a passport and the original but certified copy of the document certifying the authority of the representative. That was logical and correct. This ensures that there will be no raiding. Now with this amendment, the 50th, which is counted by the committee, this part of the fifth is excluded. There's a cross on it, it's not there. No passport should be presented, no documents should be presented. What, then, were we fighting for? What is the point of this law, then? This is then a corrupt bill aimed at the acquisition of other businesses. That's why I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u263	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u264	I would like to point out that Mr. Voropeyev was making his amendments in some logical way. He, in fact, passed his own bill, just passed the bill. That was the point. The point was that the 48th amendment, which has just been voted on, justifies how documents are filed. And it's written what kind of decision has to be made, and so on. So actually, the 50th amendment says that not all of these changes are necessary. And the 51st amendment sets other rules. So the 50th, 48th, 50th and 51st are logically related. If we just voted 51st and voted 48th, we can't cancel the 50th. Because it's going to be different standards for the same action. Friends! Let's not be absurd.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u265	National MP Voropeyev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u266	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the bill regulates the relationship not only in the registration of newly established societies, not only in the case of any change in the administration, but also in the case of the loss and replacement of documents, as well as changes in other administrations and so on, or in the defiance of those documents. Therefore, it is logical for me to amend this bill in order for it to actually become an obstacle to the raiders and to prevent them from being there with their fraud. If any of them commits such things with their left hand or foot, the actions of the registrars may be appealed to the court. And until now, even bring it to trial. No, you can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u267	Dear colleagues! Yuri Anatolyevich. Dear colleagues! The Supreme Council of Ukraine supported most of the amendments made by the national MP, Voropeyeva. So logically, these points need to be ruled out. Are you insisting? This is going to ruin everything, the whole system. Royal, about this amendment, please. Let's follow the same logic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u268	Dear colleagues! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! In order to act on some logic, the bill must now be re-readed to finalize the amendments of our colleague and Voropaev and our colleague, Carmazin, and then build a logical series when one amendment comes out of another amendment. And now, indeed, when we look at this bill in this format, we're going to make it raider rather than anti-rider. There is now a proposal to vote on the second reading and to send the bill to the Committee for further elaboration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u269	Dear colleagues! You understand very well, if we've begun to consider the issue, we have to finish, vote all the amendments, and then send the second or third readings back, where there is no common position. Now we're going to stop it, we're going to stop it, we're going to send it to the second reading. You're proposing something that goes against the rules. So now I'm putting Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin's 50th amendment to the vote, she's supported by the Committee. I ask for support from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. All of it. Well, calm down, 49. Dear colleagues, we must conclude our consideration of the matter, but we cannot interrupt the consideration of the matter. I'm asking you to calm down. Yuri Anatolyevich. It's the 50th amendment, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u270	Please support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u271	We have to vote. [[14:19:04]] For 316 Correction supported. Now, dear fellows, we need to go back to the 49th Amendment in such an approach, and it was rejected. Xenia Mikhailn, should we go back to 49, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u272	No, 49's not required, we supported 48. If the author insists, then. The author does not insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u273	Now, dear colleagues, the amendment of the 53rd People's Deputies of Voropeyeva. Are you insisting on her? Come on. Let's go. Let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u274	I would like to draw your attention to the following: that the difference between the text that exists now and the text that I am adding is Amendment 53, which is only one, I propose that the minutes of the assembly, which will be submitted, the original or its notary copy, contain a list of the founders, shareholders or founders who have decided that then it would be difficult for the fraudsters to say that there were no such people, the same original, the same signature of each person. So that we can finally have the practice of criminalizing raiders. Why can't he stay out of it now? Because they produce a copy of the protocol and it is impossible to carry out an examination of who signed the protocol, the teacher or the non-founder, Ivanov or Petrov in the end. If we bring an original or a certified copy, then the signature can be easily verified, including by law enforcement authorities. That is why I insist on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u275	Dear colleagues, you can certainly count on that. But I want to point out that the original doesn't appear to be in the registration business; it stays in the person who presented it. And in the matter of registration, it still looks like a copy. And if a state registryer is involved in the raider scheme, he'll do it anyway. And you're still going to have a relationship with the expertise of a copy. Same thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-19-m0.u276	Dear colleagues! There is 53 amendments to the Vote of the People’s Deputy Voropeyes. [[14:21:30.]] For 311 Decision taken. Amendment to Yuri Carmazin 57. Please, the microphone. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin is filming. Dear colleagues! We've been through all the repairs. Since the Supreme Council of Ukraine has adopted a number of amendments, it is obvious that this law should be rereaded for a second reading. And if you support this proposal, I will put it to a vote: on re-reading the draft law, registration number 3011, on amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts against illegal absorption and capture of businesses. I'm reminding you again of registration number 3011. Please vote. [[14:22:28]] For 364 Decision taken. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed until 4:00 p.m. After the break, we will begin a review of the Draft Law on the State Privatisation Programme for 2008-2012.
