ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Please prepare for registration. Please include the “Council” system. [[10:00:19]] There are 362 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I now declare the plenary session open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies: Rybeki Aleksandra Grigorovitch, Tobacco Dmitr Volodymirovich, School of Andrija Vasilovich. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Let us welcome our colleagues, wish us good health and creative strength. In accordance with part eight of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the initiative of the 151 people's deputies of Ukraine to hold an extraordinary plenary meeting with a defined agenda, as determined by the initiators of the extraordinary plenary meeting, is a draft, I apologize for the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Budget 2009 with proposals by the President of Ukraine. Two factions: BUTT, and the “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” Block, are requested to announce a recess for consultations before the discussion begins. Delegated factions: “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko” – Andri Kozemakin and authorized representative of the NUNS-Taras Steckov faction. A break of 30 minutes is announced. At 10 o'clock, 32 minutes, we'll continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, we continue our work. Members of the Cabinet of Ministers, headed by Prime Minister Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrna, are taking part in the extraordinary plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Two factions took a break for consultations. From two factions who took a break for consultations, the word is given to the national deputy Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, I will begin my speech with a question, a question that may seem rhetorical to you. In fact, I would ask you to take a closer look at this question and to make it a criterion so that you can make an appropriate decision on the question that is in order today. The question is simple: How much is one person’s life worth? Ones! 10,000 bucks, a billion bucks? I don't know the answer. But I know one thing for sure: for that we were elected Ukrainian national deputies, that if we have the opportunity, and we have it, to save one person's life, no matter what one person does, we can't refuse it, we have no right! [[People!]] And now, Alexander Volodymyrovich, I want to ask you: Is the life of any man worth calling a meeting of the Conciliation Council? It would seem an absurd question. It would seem that the answer to the questions is obvious. If it is possible to save one person’s life, it would be wise to call a meeting of the Conciliation Council or something so extraordinary that we asked to convene a meeting of the Conciliation Board. I would like to remind you that after every time two factions requested a recess and asked to call a meeting of the Conciliation Council, I, who has been here for about 12 years in Parliament, do not remember a case where the chairman refused to call a meeting of the Conciliation Council. Dear colleagues, today we make a very responsible decision. I'd ask you to think about what you're sitting here for. To do politics? Who helped people more to make the screen look good? To criticize the government. Because the government hasn't helped our citizens enough? Make a balanced decision, make the right decision, make the only possible decision you should make today, help our people save their lives. Remember, that is the question with which I began my talk. How much is one person’s life worth? To that end, you were elected Ukrainian national deputies to save our people! Do it, please. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u4	The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Ukraine's 2009 State Budget Act, with proposals by the President of Ukraine, is being announced for consideration. Reported to Alexander Vitaliyovich, First Deputy Head of the Ukrainian Secretary of the Republic of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u5	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Dear members of the government! The President of Ukraine returned to the Supreme Council, adopted on November 3, this year, the Ukrainian Act on the Prevention and Treatment of Influenza. I want to point out the most plausible moment in the position of the President of Ukraine. He supports the Supreme Council’s decision to allocate an additional 1 billion dollars to prevent and treat influenza. However, the President of Ukraine proposes another answer to the main question: Where to take this one billion dollars. To remind me, the Supreme Council, at the initiative of the government, proposes that it be printed using the printing press of the National Bank of Ukraine. The President of Ukraine proposes to use a universally accepted budget procedure in a civilized world, namely, if there are force majeure situations in the country -- whether it's an economic crisis or an influenza epidemic -- and if there are no funds in the budget to deal with such a force majeure, the state is increasing its debt and borrowing the necessary amount. This is what the President of Ukraine is motivated and formulated to offer in accordance with article 94 of the Ukrainian Constitution to the Ukrainian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, the President of Ukraine has repeatedly and unequivocally stated that the attempt to force the National Bank to send to the State Budget non-existent excess income over expenditure is a gross violation of the fundamental foundations of the State's financial system, a substitute for the National Bank's constitutional mission, transforming it into a printing press for budget purposes, exposing all Ukrainian citizens to the risks of inflation, a breakdown in the national currency, resulting in a sharp decline in the standard of living of our people. The president of Ukraine, once again, reminds us of the 1993 issue lesson. Inflation record of 10,000 percent in one year has made the entire nation of Ukraine miserable. It took seven long years to fix the inflation situation and it would seem to be forever to impose rule 15 of the budget code: “The National Bank is forbidden to lend the State Budget”. In violation of this sacred rule, the pernicious disregard for the principles of independence of the National Bank has been the subject of a constitutional appeal by the President of Ukraine to the Constitutional Court. While the Constitutional Court is considering a statement by the President of Ukraine, I remind you that even the law that is being sued in court contains a rule on the pre-calculation of positive differences in the excess of cost-effective income over expenditure, attention, on the basis of the approved revenue and expenditure of the National Bank of Ukraine. I would like to remind you that the current cost of the National Bank is forecasting a positive difference in 2009 of 696 million dollars. Moreover, in fact, in nine months, proposals have been submitted to the National Bank for consideration on behalf of the government, where the amount is reduced to 608 million dollars. In their reference to the National Bank’s Board, the bank’s experts note the possibility of increasing reserves to undervalued assets from today’s 11.7 billion dollars even more than 7 billion dollars. This is the price that we, the State, have to pay for saving the banking system, both from the economic crisis and from the political pressure on Ukrainian banks. The need for additional reserves, by the way, was not limited to the National Bank. I'll get you the banking system figures in general. So far, the biggest damage in the history of Ukraine’s banking system has been 23.6 billion bracelets, resulting from the formation of almost 61 billion reserves. So at best, the National Bank gets a positive difference of 608 million dollars, but it's more likely to get a scenario in the current year by the National Bank of Damage. Where do you get one billion dollars to fight the flu, or nine billion dollars to finance the preparation of Euro-2012 objects? The president of Ukraine is proposing one billion dollars to increase government debt, this increase is equal to one tenth of GDP. The president of Ukraine is willing to do the necessary work with commercial banks to borrow this billion from the market, not just to print it. Moreover, the honourable people's deputies, the debate on the size of government debt and the manner of use, to my mind, should long ago return to the Parliamentary Hall, because Parliament has completely lost control of our State's sovereign debt. Let me remind you that at the beginning of the year, the government debt was 130.7 billion dollars. The Supreme Council passed the State Budget Act and set a debt threshold of 193 billion. At the same time, article 85 of the law allowed the government to go beyond that limit, but only in the case of under-receipts to the State Budget. Let me remind you of the latest official figures that we know: by September 30, 2009, the government's debt was already 205 billion dollars, and this is because the government was optimistic about the full implementation of the State budget. At the same time, today our debt is already 225 billion dollars, an increase of almost 95 billion, and has exceeded the legal limit by more than 30 billion. Where did that money go? They did not take action to combat epidemics; this budget program is funded only by 47 percent. Of the 50 million dollars earmarked under the insistence of the President of Ukraine, only 30 million, or 60 percent, have been used in April to take priority measures to prevent the introduction and spread of swine flu in Ukraine. An unprecedented increase in government debt was used to cover the government's budget policy estimates, to avoid making the necessary changes to the budget, and to fund the Prime Minister's promises made during the pre-election period to pay the post office, librarians, rural heads, and so on. What can we conclude from the above? The government, which over the course of a year used government debt, could long ago have involved the necessary amount of 1 billion dollars in the fight against the flu. And I'm convinced that Parliament would respond with much greater understanding to this involvement than to other 95 billion involvements. Instead, the government, understanding the attitude towards printing money and the National Bank and the President, is taking this extremely controversial path. My personal conviction, the government in this situation wanted, not money, but another conflict. Today we have a repeat of the situation that took place in the adoption of the 9.8 billion-dollar law on financing preparations for the Euro-2012. The president of Ukraine reminded us that these funds are already planned in the budget. Moreover, under the leadership of the President, the experts of the National Bank, the Minfin, the Treasury, the “Kravtodor” have worked out special funding schemes that would allow the funds to be used in a targeted manner would introduce double control by the Treasury and the National Bank. Special decrees were made for this purpose by the government and the National Bank. As a result of this work, dear colleagues, I will inform you. An open credit line for a 1.5-billion-dollar loan line. However, funding for infrastructure from the State Budget has been much worse. In line with the established special order of action, the government has issued special bonds for three years under an attractive rate. Commercial banks bought them for nearly 720 million dollars. Yet, only 200 million of this sum was sent to prepare for the Euro - 2012 program in violation of his words and regulations. The rest went through the budget holes. What does this illustration show? First of all, the cost-sharing scheme, to meet the state's extraordinary needs through the special bond mechanism, is completely effective. Secondly, the main problem is not the involvement of funds, but the manual and purposeless use of funds by the government. By the way, according to the information owned by the President's Secretariat, out of the 500 million who have been allocated by the government to fight the flu from the State Budget Reserve Fund, cash, I emphasize, the cash execution of these expenditures amounts to about 60 million dollars. And the competent authorities report violations of state procurement legislation and overpriced purchases. I am convinced that in terms of providing the government with an additional 1 billion dollars and funding for the Euro-2012 preparations, strict parliamentary control is needed. Thus, honourable national MPs, if the President of Ukraine's veto is defeated, the state budget will not be added because they are not defined. But public conflict and mistrust of authority will be added. In the case of supporting the President's proposals, it's already over.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u6	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u7	In a few days, funds will begin to flow into the government budget. And hope under strict parliamentary control will be used to fight the flu. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u8	Is there a question for the reporter? Please sign up for questions. Jódzik Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u9	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People’s Party. Dear Mr. Alexander, in your statement, you mentioned the abuses that occurred during the state purchases in this situation with the financing of the fight against the flu. The whole country was horrified by the figures that were named, namely, “Tamiflu” was purchased three times or five times as much as it was worth. During the administration of Viktor Yanukovich, the equipment was purchased three times the price. Do you not think that the signals we have today in the fight against the flu are forcing us to immediately vote on this billion in the second reading of the bill on government procurement, which takes into account the requirements of the World Bank? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u10	Mr. Jaroslav, these are two short answers. All the signals received by the President regarding abuses in the field of procurement, particularly regarding medical devices, are transmitted to the competent authorities and, above all, to the Attorney General's Office for a special study. I hope that you and I will find out what's going on there. As far as the State Procurement Act is concerned, I am in favour of accepting the World Bank recommendations as quickly as possible. However, I think that this law needs an additional and very serious discussion, both in the committee and in the parliamentary room, so that we do not adopt into the queue a law that will cause more conflict in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u11	Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u12	Sobolev, Reforms and Orders Party, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. The honourable reporter, i.e., I understand that after the issue of hysteria, as you say, was considered around the flu by other government agencies, the President deliberately for 15 days did not sign the Act on the Provision of Urgent Funds for the Purchase of Special Equipment and necessary medicines for the Fight against Influenza. After a few days, he did not submit him to the Supreme Council by taking a break. After that, I understand that, even if the veto is over today, this law will not be signed for another ten days. That's why we understand that. I don't have any questions, I don't need any comments. The only question that arises in all those who only listen to us here is outside this room. How long will the decision of the government and the Supreme Council continue to be blocked so that the flu will continue to spread in Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u13	No comments. School of Andriy Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u14	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I have a question in this very key. I understand that the position of the secretariat right now is that the worse the Ukrainian people are, the more they might have the President's rating. Unfortunately, this could be used and used, unfortunately, in Ukrainian politics. But I don't think it's anybody and ever will bring any dividends in any life when in this situation people are suffering when rating or lack of it will build on human health. Because we understand it perfectly and you understand it perfectly, and whoever listens to us understands that the second wave of flu is going to be, well, the nature of the viral infection. It's going to be spring basically, it's going to be stage two. It can start anytime when there's heat, now it can start again, because now we have warm weather. What position do you have, your own, and the President's Secretariat and the President you represent in this situation?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u15	Mr. Andrew, Mr. Sergei, I'm not a politician and I'm not going to argue with you about politics. However, I would like to suggest that politics should now be left out of the hall. We all care about people. The president's only talking about one thing -- use a real source, and he'll sign this law tomorrow, we'll get the money. Don't break the flu now, the financial system of the state, which will harm not only those who have the flu, but all of our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u16	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u17	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear Alexander Vitaliyovich, these are the proposals on the President's page and page one and a half that we were to make on behalf of the President. Your President has not authorized any more. At the same time, you insulted the government, saying that it would provoke conflicts and so forth. You insulted Parliament by saying that Parliament had lost control. Yes, I've lost control! Because in a normal parliament, officials like you shouldn't insult Parliament or do what the President suggested. I would like to ask you, I understand that this may not end until the end of this presidency, but I would like to ask you, do you realize that the President needs money to develop his own domestic vaccines? And you didn't say anything about it, you were talking about "The Stork" about anything. It's about your own vaccines.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u18	Mr. Yuri, this is the answer to the specific question you have asked. Obviously, in front of the hall, we'll talk about our own vaccines and more about the Moratorium Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u19	Zdnovsky Vitaly Olegovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u20	Please, Bondarenko, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u21	Vladimir Bondarenko, Yuli's Block Timoshenko. Dear Mr. Alexander, in your report, you have twice used such a term as “competent authorities”. Well, it smells something, there, 38-39. What are these competent authorities? Or maybe it's the Ukrainian Security Service, where Kislinsky recently worked, who accused the Prime Minister of treason, and then found out that he doesn't even have a diploma, that he doesn't have a school, or maybe he didn't finish -- we have to check. I think you're also referring to the competent authorities of another person like Horoshkovsky, who is there solely in the interests of Firthash and the President of Ukraine in the oil and gas field, particularly in the shelves. Perhaps these competent authorities are also covered by the objective position of Stelma, which the Council here takes down, and the President says, "No, let him sit down." Because if Stemach is taken off, there may be such a dig that not only Stella is in this position, but in other places there are many competent authorities. So I'd like to draw your attention to being a little more objective.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u22	Complete the question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u23	No, no, no, two words. I asked to be a little more objective, because somehow you're bending the stick a little bit, and you're also more competent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u24	Thank you, Mr. Vladimir. I will certainly take your wishes into account. I think that in that case we should be a little more resilient with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u25	Sushenko Alexander Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u26	Dear reporter, you can see that somehow it doesn't go any further. I would like to believe that you do not refer to the “no diplomats” who work at the President's Secretariat, but after your report, I have a question about the secretariat which the President of whose country is speaking. And I have two questions. Please tell me that the faction of the Party of Regions will not now vote in the Hall. So has there been negotiations, or has there been a meeting with the President's representatives of this faction? And the second question is for the country to hear. One billion percent of the country's GDP and if the country can't stand it, please tell me why this financial system at all. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u27	Thank you. I don't know about any negotiations by the President of Ukraine with the Party of Regions. As for the answer to your second question. I talked about it in the report, one billion dollars is 0.1 percent of our nation's GDP. It's a small amount, and we, I think, what the President is writing about in his proposals, we can raise the state's debt by that amount and then fund it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u28	Arjev Vladimir Igorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u29	Please pass the word to Kulikov Kiril Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u30	Thank you very much. Dear Alexander Vitaliovich, I have only one question. We had a joint commission of inquiry for the National Bank here in Parliament. The Commission reached its conclusions. I can't understand how the National Bank can get $80 million to refinance banks. 80 billion to refinance banks and it's impossible to put 1 billion into medicine. I mean, I know it's bad for the mailman, I realize it's bad for the librarians, but this is the principle we have right now: the mailman, the librarians, the books, and the bankers, the money, the money. I don't understand that position. I don't understand why the National Bank. And we realize that most of these costs will never come back to the National Bank. There is the conclusion of the parliamentary commission of inquiry. Why the President despises this conclusion and why we are today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u31	Honourable National MP, the sense of the state's existence is that everyone must act within their legislative powers. It's the National Bank's job to make a refund. However, it is not the government’s business, if any, today without Parliament to decide where to direct the budget. I understand if the Minister of Finance were to stand in my shoes and say, "Dear parliamentarians, let's raise the pay to the librarians. You have to make such a decision in accordance with the Constitution, not primarily to make such a decision, and then to be financed by an increase in public debt solely by the government. So, so far, unfortunately, with government debt, it's not very good, so I've suggested that we take this issue apart in this room. As far as the National Bank is concerned, there is a commission of inquiry. Yes, the parliamentary commission, there are others, too, very important to me, documents. This document is a document by the World Bank of Auditors that has been hired and audited all the refinancing loans and has determined that no violations have been committed by the National Bank to date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u32	Thank you, Alexander Vitaliovich. Have a seat, please. The report is the head of the Committee on Budgeting, Mr. Mikola Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u33	Dear Chairman! Dear national deputies, invited! The Committee on Budget Issues at its meeting on 18 November considered the proposals by the President of Ukraine to the Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Budget 2009 at number 5301. [[on the provision of all hospitals in the country with the necessary medical equipment and medicines, and against the spread of the influenza epidemic]] The main task of the adopted law is to create an enabling environment to counter the influenza epidemic in Ukraine: to provide all hospitals in the country with the necessary medicines and equipment to diagnose the disease and to prevent the spread of the A/H1N1 influenza epidemic “California 0409” and acute respiratory diseases, as well as to provide citizens with professional medical care and medicines free of charge. To this end, the law provides for the allocation of $1 billion in funds directly to the Ministry of Health under a separate budget programme. The source of implementation of this law is the excess of gross revenue over expenditures of the National Bank of Ukraine by redistributing between the general and special state budget funds without changing the general government budget rates. The President of Ukraine applied the veto to this law, and on 16 November he returned it to the Supreme Council with his proposals, namely: he proposes to determine the source of the additional expenditure of the State budget by increasing the amount of internal government borrowing by 1 billion dollars under the State budget of Ukraine, with appropriate adjustment of the national budget deficit and the marginal size of government debt. Accordingly, it is proposed to amend Articles 1 and 11 and Appendices 1, 2 and 3 of the Ukraine Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009. The main scientific and expert office concludes that the proposal by the President of Ukraine does not contain a proper justification for the purpose and the possibility of increasing budgetary expenditure due to an increase in the deficit of the state budget and government debt, since in the context of a worsening economic crisis, an increase in the deficit of the state budget and public debt may lead to significant threats to the financial system of the country as a whole and to the public finance sector, first of all. On the basis of the discussion of the above-mentioned issue, the Committee on Budget Issues approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the re-adopt to the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2009 as a whole, i.e. to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u34	Let's sign up for a question to a co-rapporteur. Zdnovsky Vitaly Olegovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u35	May I have the word of Laishka?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u36	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. It's a shame to observe, when people on the mountain, the tragedy of the country is being pursued by politics, as we have just had the opportunity to see a representative of the President speak. It was absolutely correct to say that instead of hearing professional remarks, we had been listening to politics from the U.S. Attorney's Office for 10 minutes. I think the best way for the Supreme Council to make a decision today is to beat the President's veto, to support the government's action to combat the flu epidemic. And we've got a World Health Organization specialist alerting us to the second and third waves of flu, and we need a dog of these different waves, to get all-arms, to get ready, to buy equipment, to buy the drugs we need. And a very big request to the representative of the President's Secretariat to convey to the President a wish from the entire Parliament and from the citizens of Ukraine. I was on yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u37	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u38	people asked them to say, “Don’t stop the government from overcoming the crisis, overcoming the epidemic.” And please, if you're so smart, so beautiful, so strong, stand by and help, and not everyone is just trying to bite and cuddle, instead of helping this woman who's got the whole country on her shoulders.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u39	Komar Mikola Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u40	Please give the floor to Deputy Konovaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u41	Thank you. Dear Nikolai Ivanovich, please tell me when the Committee examines the issue, that is, when the Government proposes, how will this billion be distributed? That's the first one. Second. How do you comment on the fact that at the end of the spring, 50 million bracelets were allocated from the reserve fund, which for six months were intended to prevent the epidemic and prepare Ukrainian citizens to be protected from the epidemic? And these 50 million have only been used in September and so on, for a doubtful purpose, since the Health Committee has repeatedly addressed the Prime Minister on this matter. And as you think, how effective will this billions of bracelets be and how appropriate today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u42	Thank you for asking. With regard to the distribution of this billion. The committee presented three specific items when we first considered the bill: the acquisition of equipment, the acquisition of medicines needed and other means. The Ministry of Health, as the Chief Credit Manager, will provide the corresponding estimate, which will be analysed. With regard to the use of 5 million bracelets. With regard to efficiency, you know, the committee didn't specifically hear the question, that's what. With regard to this billion, it was proposed and voted to establish a commission from each faction per person, and some factions had already submitted such proposals, and before the issue would be funded, it would be considered on a commission basis with representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Health. And this is exactly where the committee must be, so to speak, the decisive vote will be, I think, behind it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u43	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u44	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Mikola Ivanovich, realizing that the veto today will not be overcome. Foreseeing this as a senator of the international parliament of security and peace, I appealed to Parliament about the allocation of funds. Well. But I've been assured that these costs will come. I repeat that these costs will come. I just wanted to hear your opinion on empty proposals at the conclusion of the Science and Experimental Authority. With regard to the emptyness of the President's proposals for increased debt and the uncontrolledness of the National Bank. What she looks like. You're an experienced man, you were a minister, you're the head of the committee now, don't you think that at the President's Secretariat and the President is "breaking" the National Bank, everything that's going on there, and all the secrets.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u45	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u46	Our own Chamber of Accounts. We have now heard on behalf of the Head of State that we, Ukrainian parliamentarians, should be using the audits that have been made to us by the foreign specialists of our National Bank. People are good! Think of what is said in this rostrum! How do you feel about the fact that we have access to state secrets and to what is happening in the National Bank? And we don't have access to the Ukrainian Parliament in particular and to the heads of the budget committee to the figures that are being said to be today. By the way, in nine months, 680 million had already been in the National Bank. In a year, they are obviously more than a billion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u47	We've invited you to the National Bank. The National Bank replied in a letter to the 680 million that such a forecast was expected by the end of the year, and we therefore found this to be the case. With regard to other assessments, including political ones, we do not have professional review and political assessments in the Committee, so I will not answer your question. And with regard to scientific and expert management, I'm more inclined to believe that there's more to the truth here. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u48	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich One last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u49	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. The honourable chairman of the committee, I have a question to you and as a person who knows the budget well, and financial problems, and I think the banking field. Please tell us, everyone today understands that medicine, the health - care field today, is in urgent need of money. Everyone's figured that out. District hospitals lack artificial breathing equipment, and resuscitation cannot perform its function. These are all our problems, and let everyone be responsible for this, because for many years the medical field has been underfunded. In this regard, I see that a key stumbling point, let's say, is there money in the National Bank for this or not? I'd like to ask you. There was information from the National Bank that they had the right money. Why are there so many discussions around this? Perhaps we should publish to the national MPs the information of the head of the National Bank, and all the discussions would go away. And then there wouldn't be these raids on each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u50	Thank you, Oleg Alexandrovich, for asking. I said that the Committee had a letter from the National Bank dated 23 October, stating that such funds were projected to exceed gross revenue over expenditure of 695.8 million grivens. We have no other information. As for reporting, the National Bank is governed by relevant laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u51	Thank you, Mikola Ivanovich. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, before taking a decision on the matter under consideration, please ask Prime Minister Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrna of Ukraine. Please. Julia Volodymyrna, you had a desire to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u52	Good afternoon. I want to welcome everyone in this room, as well as everyone who's listening to my speech in Caine right now, through the media. I want to start with a very concise information that you can read on the World Health Organization website, this information is open, it's not hidden from anyone. This information tells us that in all countries today, without exception, there are pandemics, and in most countries today the number of deaths and the number of diseases caused by the California flu is already absolutely dangerous. In addition, seasonal flu epidemics and viral infections also have dangerous, unusual rates. If you open the World Health Organization site, you will see people forecasting the number of people who have to get sick and forecast those who have to get resuscitated, who literally need to be in each country’s quantity, placing artificial lung ventilation devices, how many people, including in Ukraine, will need artificial kidney equipment, and what is really scary for each country is the World Health Organization, not the politics and government of Ukraine, for the forecast of deaths. And I want to sober up Ukraine's policy today, which, for the first time, has gone beyond all limits in its electoral battalions and in pre-election hysterias, and say that the very optimistic forecast for Ukraine is 34,000 deaths -- that's 10 times more than in previous years than in ordinary epidemics, it's not a government forecast, it's the World Health Organization. And I also want to remind you that the worst forecast given by the same organization for Ukraine is 240 thousand deaths. I want maybe for the people sitting in this room, it's a cold shower. Because perhaps someone in power, someone in opposition, but all chosen, voted for everyone, people whose lives are at risk today. And regardless of whether you're in opposition or in power, you don't have to, if one person has given up their vote for you in this country, to protect life, not to engage in empty demagogies and spending government money on wearing pants, I'm sorry. And that's why I'd like to start by saying that every MP, without exception, knows how to protect their child, and if he's sick, he'll go, as a minimum, to Feofany, and as a maximum, abroad on his own planes to clinics that he has, and as well as those that were in power for ten years, didn't secure our clinics, getting money from shadow privatization. And it's because they know they're going to Feofania, but on their planes they can take their children abroad, or they can take their children out, so they don't care, like the President of the country, but unfortunately we chose with you, which is going to be with the country's child. Because a rural child does not even get to a district hospital because it has not been provided for the previous 18 years with quick assistance or reanimation, it has been breached and looted. And since the privatisation, the country has not received any money. And that's why I want to say, dear friends, that you're all responsible for today's vote for every child's life, every pregnant woman's life, every young person's life. Because if you read again the WHO mission leader’s transcripts, who came to Ukraine by throwing away all of her affairs, she said that not to the question of how many deaths occurred in Ukraine in the first minute of the pandemic last year, but the period during which the country received these deaths is literally a few days, she said that if such rates continue, the forecasts of the World Health Organization for Ukraine would be true. What are you talking about? And when you talk about what is a special political hysteria, put aside everything that is said in Ukraine and read what the world community says. In one of the world’s strongest countries in the United States, a special medical emergency has been declared. Today, such a country as Britain has the most deaths among European countries. So their medicine is not as equipped for all 100 years of democracy as Ukrainian medicine. And in order to prepare for the second, third, possible wave of the pandemic today, as the World Health Organization has pointed out, not a billion, I want to disappoint you, but tens of billions. Because there is no decent resuscitation equipment in the country. Only in district hospitals, and in some, 25 to 30 years of age, there's an age of equipment in hospitals. And that's why, frankly, I'm surprised, and I've had the hope that in Parliament there's still responsibility, and I would say so, and mind, when more than 400 people in Parliament voted in favour of this law. What then began? What has changed since the vote. The minimum billion is the minimum that we still have to figure out how to get ready for the second, third wave. What happened during this brief period? When the President deliberately held it in his hands, 15 days kept a law that had been able to work for 15 days. Please tell me if he felt that other sources were needed. For example, if he were the president of the country, he would have sent his proposals to the Supreme Council in an hour. He had 15 days. Why? And because there is one calculation today that maybe the epidemic is going to go away, and maybe the extraordinary situation is going to be introduced, what Bogatirov raised as secretary of the PNDP said publicly. And that on the basis of the introduction of a state of emergency, he will be there for at least six months to be held by the President. Don't you understand the general basis of these things? In other words, 15 days of veto is not imposed, and the law is not signed. Perhaps this is a secondary issue in Ukraine, perhaps more important than the lives of 240,000 people. No, it's deliberately done. So why did you have to pick up the PNB? Why then was the situation under pressure, and it had to be suppressed, and then 15 days had to keep the law. But obviously all of this, it's just white thread sewn. And it is a shame that today it is very difficult for people in Ukraine to prove this information. You know why. And now the question. And why is the Party of Regions, for example, if it has informed me in advance that there will be no vote, representatives, and what has changed since then? And I just want to go to the Party of Regions now, because their voices are personally dependent today, the country will be prepared for the second wave of the epidemic or not. And if the votes are given today, we can firmly say that we will have 10 days to buy all the equipment we need. Because it still needs to be installed, because every hospital needs to be distributed. And it's said that the second moment is predicted in mid-December, early January. How could we lose 15 days? How could we lose an hour as a country? And so, dear friends, I would like, frankly, to express a great surprise that today the chairman of the Supreme Council, Mr. Lavrinovich of the Party of Regions, has not even gathered two factions at the request of a meeting of the heads of factions. Maybe it's not an important question. Or perhaps someone will take responsibility for each person’s personal life if they have not even found the need to speak with the faction leaders about how to deal with the matter? Here's the attitude. And look at the right half of the hall, where, in fact, the deputies came, look at the Communists who are sitting, and look at the faction of Lithuania, which is also sitting, and look at the Party of Regions. I want to tell you that this is a real relationship to human life, and this is the responsibility of what we're considering. And I would also like to move on to the questions that Mr. Schlapak raised. You know, there was nothing more to explain to his brilliant speech, except the humble report of the head of the budget committee. A modest report that the National Bank simply reads that this money is a profit that the National Bank Act obliges the National Bank to calculate into the budget that this billion is. Please tell me that President or Mr. Schlapak did not read this conclusion to the National Bank that this money is not an issue? And the National Bank has officially confirmed that this is the real profit of the National Bank, which must be the basis for overcoming the epidemic today. And please tell me, did not President and Schlapak have time to learn that the Head of the National Bank had even submitted to the National Bank Board documents to reconcile the budgeting of this billion into an epidemic? These are all documents open. And you know what I'm going to tell you is that this is a conscious activity against every person in Ukraine. And if this billion is confirmed today by the Head of the National Bank, if the veto is not now overtaken, every person who has not pressed this button will be in the life of a child, a person who is pregnant with a personal responsibility, a personal one. Oh, as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u53	Thank you, Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u54	What about where this billion will go? Dear friends! I think the question that we're discussing today is worth giving me a few minutes to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u55	Julia Volodymyrna, there are regulations and procedures in the Supreme Council. You've had 10 minutes, you've been out for 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u56	I would like to remind you that, when such matters are discussed in this Parliament, the Prime Minister has never been given regulations but wrote: the Prime Minister's speech. And this is also a question that even on such an important subject, the Party of Regions does not even allow the Prime Minister to speak. And I want to tell you. [[Applause]] Perhaps the MPs have not been able to get to know each other. But given the questions of the Party of Regions that were asked, where will this billion be used? The government introduced and registered a draft decision of the Supreme Council, where it was literally detailed: what is going on with this money, how it will be used? And rightly said Mikola Ivanovich Derkac, Head of the Budget Committee, which is also in the law, and Parliament's decision is that every penny will be in line with the profile committees, and there is a need for banal things. Each district and city hospital needs to be equipped with special oxygen generators, and it needs to be distributed to the emergency rooms. This means that if a person gets oxygen in the first minute after the disease, he can save his life -- that's the first direction to waste. The second direction of the waste. If on the first day when there is such a disease, a person gets oseltamivir, which is Tamiflu, then his life can be saved. And we need to buy that amount today so that, according to WHO projections, we're willing to provide potentially those people who are expected to get sick. The next thing you have to do is resuscitation banal equipment that doesn't exist in Ukraine in 18 years, it's respiratory drug, it's artificial lung ventilation, it's artificial kidney, it's all about resuscitation, including special pulsoxometers -- special monitors that control the condition of human life, its analysis every minute. We need to take at least a minimum number of ambulances to get people out of the country to hospitals where this kind of help is available. We need a minimum. Because if not at least, that billion is not enough. And any commission of the Supreme Council create to check every penny that's spent before it's spent, not after that. But allow the government to protect people’s lives. Allow the government to perform the function that the state must perform, not the Prime Minister. And make it possible to avoid the projections announced by the World Health Organization on both websites and in public. Just protecting people is your responsibility. And I'm asking now, I'm addressing all the MPs without exception, and I'm asking you, given that the President's proposals are an increase in government debt at a time when both the budget committee and the head of the National Bank have confirmed that this billion excess of revenue is above the expenditure, I'm asking you to support and overcome the veto. And I want to say that it is not only the people that are watching this vote, but the Lord God is watching you, if you are believing people. Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u57	It's a replica of the German Ghanan Mikolayevna faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, I hope Julia Volodymyrna reads not only the WHO website but also the Ukrainian press. Thus, last sociological research was published in the Ukrainian press yesterday, according to which 41 percent of Ukrainians believe that over 37 percent of Ukrainians believe that this is in favor of Yulia Timoshenko. These are just numbers that the Party of Regions has nothing to do with. Now on with the case. We remember well how we voted for the money for the flood, over 4.6 billion dollars were allocated to liquidating the effects of the flood, 2/3 of these funds were stolen, and to this day people are writing letters of complaint to the Cabinet of Ministers. The following abuses. Nine and eight billion dollars were allocated to Euro-2012, we voted for it here with you, and there is still no government decision on how to use it. Now let's move on. In its 2009 budget to combat the epidemic, the government invested 500,000 dollars. [[B in m in s a l in]] Just 240,000 were used, the rest was stolen. Fifty million bracelets were allocated to the fight against swine flu. They used 30 million. 20 stole. On October 30, the government issued a decree for the entry of 500 million dollars, only 12 of which were used, and the rest were stolen. I propose that the government report to the Ukrainian people, where is the money, who used it, and for what purposes? Now we're proposing a different state approach. We believe that by December of this year, 200 million dollars should be allocated to combat the epidemic, 100 of which should be directed to the hospital area and 100 to Minshvod for their needs. It's impossible to use a billion in a month. All you can do is steal it. So if the government uses 200 million in December and it needs more money, it needs to be put into the 2010 budget and used according to the law. It's a public approach, it's a responsible position, and we suggest we do it that way. And the bill on this is to present to the Supreme Council of Mikola Janovich Azarov. To scare us here.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u59	Anna Mikolayevna, please sit down. Dear colleagues, since there has been a call to the chairman regarding the Conciliation Council, I would like to announce to you the requirement that came at the beginning of the work. The Yulia Timoshenko and Our People's Self-Defense Block in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call require a 30-minute recess to be announced for consultations. Period. We didn't have to consult in the Regional Party. We held consultations on the day before. Hence, no Board of Conciliation had to be called. Please take a comparison table. Let's move on to decision-making. Dear colleagues, proposal number one of the President of Ukraine. The committee proposes to reject the President's proposal. President number one's proposal is for a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:30:54]] For the 18th. The President's proposal is not supported. Proposal number two of the President of Ukraine. The committee recommends a rejection. A vote is taken on the proposal of the President of Ukraine. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:31:20]] For-7. The offer is not supported. Proposal No. 3 of the President of Ukraine. The committee recommends a rejection. President No. 3 of Ukraine's proposal is to vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:31:44]] For-7. The President's proposal is not supported. Proposal No. 4 of the President of Ukraine. The committee recommends a rejection. A vote is taken on proposal number four of the President of Ukraine. [[11:32:11]] For the 10th. The President's proposal is not supported. A proposal by the Committee on Budget Affairs to overcome the President's veto is put to the vote for the 2009 Act on Ukraine's State Budget. [[Registration number 5301]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:32:44]] For 231 The decision is not taken. The offer of the national MP, Sasa. Please show the factions. Region Party – 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 152, Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense – 32, Communist 27, Litvina Block – 19, non-fractional – 1. National Deputy Sas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u60	Thank you. The presiding officer, in accordance with part one of the first article 29, for gross violation of the rules of procedure, makes a comment to you. And according to article 135, part eight, of the Rules, I propose to put the bill to the vote, to send the bill to the Main Committee with a footnote so that it can prepare it immediately in a reduced procedure and consider it in the session room next Tuesday. Thank you. Please put this motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-26-m0.u61	If you make remarks, you would at least have to understand what you meant by violations. This is the position of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm voting for a proposal to be sent to a training committee that will have 30 days to prepare this issue. I'd like to make up my mind. [[B in m in s a l in]] Retailing in accordance with the Rules. The motion is for a vote, please be determined. [[11:34:24]] For 251 Decision taken. The law is directed to the Committee on Budgets. The factions, please. Region Party – 1, "Timoshenko Yulia Block" – 151, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 51, communists – 27, "Litvina Block" – 19, non-fractional – 2. On this occasion, I declare the plenary session closed.
