ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Dear colleagues! I'd ask everyone, without common arrangements, we won't do anything. I beg of you, Your Honor, take your seats. We have an agreement. [[10:12:48]] There were 443 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies! At a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine there are: Prime Minister of Ukraine Yulia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko and members of the Cabinet of Ministers, Head of the Constitutional Court, Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, Head of the High Council of Justice, Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, Head of the Central Electoral Commission, Attorney-General of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Head of the diplomatic representatives of foreign states and other officials. [[Congrats]] Dear colleagues! In line with the decision taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on January 15, 2009, we continued our third session for two weeks. During these weeks, national deputies worked in committees and with voters. During this period, 11 committee meetings were held to discuss 42 issues. An extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was held on Monday, January 26, under the insistence of 150 national deputies. Therefore, today and only today, I declare the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the sixth call closed and, at the same time, the honourable national deputies, in accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call I declare open. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a great request for you. We agreed on the Conciliation Council that if we don't find a solution, we won't find a compromise, we'll take a break and look for a common position. So I'd like to ask everyone to sit down, now we'll continue our work, the faction leaders will speak, they'll declare their positions, then we'll discuss with you the meeting schedule for this plenary week. I'm sure if we don't make a decision, but I think it'll be taken, we'll hold consultations. Well, through consultation, we'll just make a decision. Please. So you're not giving it a chance to do that. Dear National Deputies! Today is the birthday of the People's Deputy Miroshnick Yuri Romanovich, let's welcome our colleague! [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! We received a sad message: an outstanding writer and public figure, Paul Archipovich the Zagreb Hero of Ukraine, a multi - year - old national deputy of Ukraine and the former Soviet Union. Please honor his light with a moment of silence. Please sit down. Honorable national MPs, distinguished faction leaders, respected colleagues! Traditionally, since there is no way out of the rostrum, let me say a few words and thoughts about how to organize our work, and then we'll probably have more consultations. I apologize again for not being able to speak from the rostrum. Dear colleagues, we need to be aware that from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, its position, its actions depend on what happens to the country today and what happens tomorrow, and whether there will be a country at all, and whether the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be reduced to conflict services. We serve conflicts that are outside the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] And these conflicts are interpersonal because of the state's concern for Ukraine, and this is absolutely immoral. As for the latter, I think it is necessary to stress that during the last year of the 151th plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there were no sessions or 55 plenary sessions. I didn't start or work. The Supreme Council has begun its work. It's not working properly yet, but it's working, is that okay? That's good. I would like to say, Mr. President, that the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be working despite opposition to the recruitment of regular insinuators, threats and intimidation. [[Applause]] Once again, I would like to emphasize that no public service that has been involved in the opposition to the Supreme Council and directly to the people who are doing everything they can not do to break the final state machinery and destroy the country, they will not be able to achieve anything, including state provocations! [[Applause]] And the Supreme Council of Ukraine will work. I mean, dear colleagues, we're not going to let the country and the people be permanently humiliated to achieve the goals that are planned. There will be no long-term dissolution of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it will work its cadence! (O p l s c i) And we have to overcome that watershed that's in the Supreme Council, and this waterworks is artificial. Two hundred fifty about deputies and two hundred deputies -- and we created this waterworks artificially. And as if one is anti-presidential, the other is presidential, it's counter-natural, we have to work together all institutions and branches of government, and we're going to work, we're not given another. We need to come up with a thousand bills in this session, and we need to come up with a plan of action. We clearly need to create a working group: representatives of the President, government, other institutions, the Supreme Council, and to produce a plan of action and a sequence of action. And most importantly, don't talk about making immediate budget changes tomorrow. You understand very well that today's budget, which is incomplete, inefficient, has become a mechanism of political struggle, because the requirement to make changes to the budget today is to make a budget sequester and thus show that Ukraine cannot live. We need to make immediate decisions that need to be made, broaden the income part of the budget, allow everyone to live and work and then make changes to the budget to make the country grow. One more. I would ask colleagues, especially committee heads, to ensure that the decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are implemented in an inescapable manner and to stop talking about political, non-legal and other decisions. The Supreme Council of Ukraine does not make wrong decisions! And we need to make fewer decisions, but we need to make sure that these decisions are effective. And another offer. We need to create a temporary special commission to work out proposals for a bill on the main directions of internal and external politics, and we need to immediately accept this document so that we have the only state line, the only state position. I'm convinced that we have little time, but we have to do everything we can to make Ukraine develop predictively, enough to humiliate Ukraine both in Ukraine and beyond, and we have to make decisions that meet the needs of society rather than try to compromise in order to satisfy the positions of a particular politician. I hope that this is our common position and that this is how we're going to act. So I'd like to ask now, my fellow Members, not to aggravate the situation, to take a break, to invite the leaders of the MP factions to make a decision that will calm us down. A break of 30 minutes is announced. Leaders of MP groups and factions, please gather for the Conciliation Council.
