ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, guests of the Supreme Council. Please prepare for registration. Please enable the "Council" system. [[10:04:31]] There are 437 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall, and the morning plenary session is open. Dear colleagues, today we have four nominees in our session room -- our colleagues. I would like to welcome to the birthday of Gryzak Vasil Mikolaiovich, Novik's Julius Volodymyrovna, Pierre Vijacheslav Grigorovovich and Saucer Igor Vasilovich, and to wish them good health and success. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, we had six plenary sessions last week of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and 37 issues of order were discussed. Six laws and 48 regulations, 10 bills and two draft decrees were adopted as a basis, three bills and six draft decrees were rejected, the President's proposals overturned the President's veto by two laws, two laws adopted by the President of Ukraine, three laws rejected, 79 parliamentary motions sent. That's the summation of last week. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations, we have 30 minutes to speak on Tuesday for authorized factions. Please sign up. Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna, “Block of Lithuania”, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u2	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! At the commission of the Lithuanian Block, I want to raise today the most painful questions that require immediate solutions and affect the lives of our peasants. On behalf of the members of our faction, but I think it will support most of the people's deputies in this room and those who have addressed us with letters, with calls at personal receptions on Volin, Ternopolis, Zaporozhye, Equinox, and in most areas, I want to address our President as the guarantor of the Constitution as the head of the State that signs the laws that we have with you. Dear Victor Andryovich! For over a month and a half, the Secretariat’s veto has been running the corridors of a multifaceted law 3353 on the prevention of negative consequences, the impact of the financial crisis on the development of the APC. We've stripped away all your suggestions in this room after your veto. 90 percent of these proposals are included. We're the only ones left to improve it -- that's relative to the influence of the National Bank on commercial banks on the extension of the loans that the villagers took. Everyone understands the situation today in the agrarian sector, which were the prices of grain, sunflower, and all other products so low that they did not often allow the cost to be covered, rather than the return of credit. And today, at all costs, the loans that have been taken out of the village: through the sale of equipment, livestock and so on, it will cause irreparable damage to the peasants. So we decided that we should let those banks that lend to the village prolong them, first of all, give them the money to refinance. That's why we're asking you: let's let your secretarial staff hold it just as long as it's always been: two or more weeks is the law, and they'll give you a signature, sign it. The village is waiting. What is most important in this law is that there is a subsidy for farmers to sell food and processing products. 20 percent of farmers have not received milk and meat prices for the second month, and this remains undetermined. So this law is very timely. The other one. Tax delays the refund on added value for peasants. We call on taxpayers to return VAT to peasants first on the eve of the sower. I don't know which government official thinks that sugar, grown by peasants in their own areas, and now obtained from the factory in exchange for the cost, is non-agricultural produce, and you have to pay VAT for sugar. Such a government decree has been adopted, and it needs to be reviewed and amended immediately. And we ask the government to do so. Dear colleagues, we have been given a law and registered with amendments to the Notaryate Act. We must immediately correct the error made in this law. Today, peasants have to go to the notary to do whatever they have to do, to get a pension, to go to the district, to pay 28 pennies. While the village council had done all of this for free before. How can we drive the elderly forever to the center, to the notary? This is what we must do for the next plenary week, the law that we and the faction have prepared and adopted by correcting this mistake.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u3	Please finish Katerina Timofievna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u4	And to the end. Dear colleagues, this week we have a sessionary, there are a number of important laws that apply to the APC, and I very much ask every faction there to forget about politics and to make sure that these laws are adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u5	Yavorowski National Deputy, Timoshenko Yulia Block. Pass the word Kirilenko to Ivan Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u6	Dear Head, colleagues, dear voters, there is a very eloquent expression in the pilots that puts the equation between life and non-existence, it's called the point of non-return -- it's when you come back late and ahead, or the master, or you're missing. It must be admitted that, fortunately, these things happen much less in airplanes than, unfortunately, in Ukrainian politics. The endless, exhausting war of all against all, the constant strife of politicians of all the imaginations and calibres, the uncompromising opposition of the leading forces, the hysterical Sabbaths and the brutal incidents of the sign people, the almost daily weeds of the human souls by pessimism and despair, the superficial insults, the beatings through their opposing channels, all of this and much more -- the harsh signs, the heralds of total degradation. Even after a difficult birth, politicians have left the country unstoppable and irresistible. Those are not my words and conclusions. Convinced that many of you are reading materials in which caring fellow countrymen, without reaching out to us, are sadly coming to such inconsolable and lamentable predictions. You don't have to go too far, enough to include any of the dozens of rating channels: there's a wild hysteria, there's an irresistible desire of some rematch and revenge, the one who's been insulted, ripped off from the trough, poured dirt, the other one, high-flying bird, reads a monologue of his own research on the subject of "guilty bride," that's like an observer who fell from the moon into a foreign country. And everyone's talking, talking and talking. Like the classic used to say, smart people, they're scared! Right on the other side of the dog’s TV show: You guys, if you're doing business, come into the session room more often and start working like miners, metallurgists, farmers near your station, translating into the language of the law all the things you preach and teach here. That's a good point, 'cause everyone's tired of one speech. Those who do anything struggle with difficulties in the power corridors are alone, but they are also being harassed and persecuted. That's right. I'm talking about the Ukrainian government. There are probably no more people in Ukraine than, of course, politicians who do not realize that the deep, systemic global crisis continues its devastating course by countries and continents. And in the most unprotected state, countries with economies that are transitioning, have just begun to rebuild their own economy and have taken the first steps towards integration into the world economic system. Ukraine, too. And our specialty is not in the leadership of government, but in the vast, unprecedented dependence on the state of the world's markets, because in what other country does 60 percent of the world's industry work for export? Instead of being energetically, together with efforts to find a way of salvation, we have politicians doing the opposite: we have almost daily appeals to overthrow the government, civil disobedience, insane accusations of treason, and other mental and unthinkable sins. During the first two weeks of February each day, something constructive was done in the world, and only in Ukraine did a few months of government terror once again end in tragedy in the walls of RNBO and the Supreme Council. Who needed that, my friends? Another week went by. We also failed to do ten percent of what we could and had to do. For example, a number of banking laws have been pending for several months. We're probably the only country in the world that's done nothing to solve major problems in this area. Someone doesn't want transparent parliamentary control over colossal financial flows, someone against Nazbank's government interaction, some frankly don't want to sell 50 percent of the government's money. What about the country, colleagues? It is time to know, for far from poor people are behind these questions. Soon the soybeans will begin, and without our help the peasants will not be able to carry it out. The government held a number of important meetings, setting priorities that require urgent consideration and adoption of relevant laws. The answers are also provided by pensioners, doctors, teachers, and senior workers. Therefore, esteemed colleagues, BUTT offers to work in line without opposition, accusations, or intrigue. We've got about a hundred questions planned this week, so let's go through every project every day and we're not going to make a decision about it, we're not going to leave this room. We're against destructiveness and intrigue. Someone comes up with the idea of an early election and dreams of winning it? Who's to beat? We won't have the usual election mode anymore. They can only come from the street. Sadly, history teaches that it teaches us nothing. By initiating the revolution, the winner, if he does so, will receive, not even ruins, but fragments and debris, and nothing can be glued out of them. We'll lose the country. So the point of no return is over, gentlemen, is it not? Are we finally able to unite and do anything for the country? BUT anti-destructive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u7	Finish it, Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u8	BEET Against the Destructive and Ruining of Motherland. Our hand is open and extended for cooperation. We look forward to an answer. And the last. Dear colleagues, the Honourable Alexander Volodymyrovich, came out a second time yesterday to protest, and said, if we don't support them in this difficult moment, and this is the most regulated, most difficult branch of the day in the state, they will stop all the bread businesses in three days, the country may run out of bread. Bill 3560 finally considered in the committee, there are conclusions, there is everything. Please, please, our faction, put this bill to the vote today. Let's put it in the agenda and look at it. We offer to work constructively for our Fatherland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u9	National MP Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u10	Dear citizens of Ukraine! I am convinced that this difficult, dramatic situation for many today is finally opening people’s eyes. It opens your eyes to the fact that it's not possible to continue to live like this, that it's the social and political system that needs to be changed, not just the form of government or the individual leaders. People are beginning to realize that there is no new coalition or new president, or any other cosmetic shifts at the top of the government, that will change the situation for the better if this power remains in the hands of the oligaric clans that robbed the country, led the country to poverty. People are getting more and more active every day, and they're out on the streets, not for Greek or money, and they're out to protect their jobs, their businesses, their mines, their factories. These massive civil protests have already taken place in Herson, Kharkiv, Donetsk, Lugansk, Odessa, Mikolayev, Zaporozhye, Crimea. Participants in mass protests strongly condemn the politics of barbaric capitalization, the looting of national property, state and municipal property. That we, the Communists, are demanding a specific agenda of action. First, immediately consider and adopt two system laws. It is the nationalization of the basic sectors of the national economy and the basic principles of foreign and domestic politics, which would be preceded by the terrible consequences that we have today. The adoption of these laws will allow the state or labour groups to recover those businesses that have artificially bankrupted them, cut jobs without justification, pay no wages, do no social obligations, or privatization. Secondly, we demand the immediate adoption of a set of laws that directly protect citizens' income and property in a context of a financial and economic crisis. Among them are the most necessary, to be considered and approved immediately from our point of view: Law on moratoriums on higher prices and tariffs for residential services, electricity, gas, civil transport. Instead of issuing worthless presidential decrees that no one is enforcing, we require the Supreme Council to ban this aberration from the laws. The next law is the Law on the Moratorium for raising prices and tariffs for medical supplies and medical supplies. In pharmacies without drugs, and in pharmacies, prices are downgraded, people are unable to provide themselves with the necessary medicines while they are progressing in heart disease, oncosa, tuberculosis. The United Nations has already recognized the Ukrainian people as dying. In order to protect the property of our citizens, to ensure their constitutional rights to housing, we demand that we urgently adopt a law under which, during a period of crisis, banks, financial institutions, other creditors should not be allowed to take away the debtor of residential property in which he resides or land if he is in a mortgage. It is also necessary to adopt a law under which banks and other financial institutions are obliged to suspend the repayment of loans if a person loses his job or is sent on compulsory unpaid leave. We are convinced that the new tax rates from the owners of the means of transport are outright abuse of people, so we have proposed an appropriate law that provides for a substantial reduction in this tax. Another law we propose in a crisis to review the fines for trespassing. Leave the existing fines only for driving cars in an alcohol or drug situation. If a traffic accident results in an accident, transport on the opposite lane, and so on. Other fines for minor violations are substantially reduced or even left at the same level that they were before. We also suggest that the issue of local self - government be immediately considered by the Communists. At the same time as the expansion of the rights of the community, we should make it impossible for taxes and congregations to turn into illegal fights when they try to collect fees for entry into a cemetery, to be consulted in a hospital, even for admission to a local official. This is a disgrace to Ukraine. Ukraine's company is proposing to the Supreme Council to take a series of action from anti-crisis laws aimed at supporting the real economy, agriculture and the agro-industrial complex for energy conservation and innovation technologies, etc. Dear citizens of Ukraine! We're proposing draft laws that will protect you. So now I'm addressing my colleagues who are here in the session room, representatives of a powerful capital, to support our initiatives. And I understand that you're hardly going to take this step because your goal is to preserve this oligarchic power, your wealth, and the burden of getting out of the crisis to the laborers. So without changing the social political system, without giving up the bankrupt liberalist and nationalist ideology, we are depriving ourselves of the future. Join us, dear comrades, in protest. Only by working together will we be able to change the situation for the better.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u11	National MP Martinenko, please, the faction of "Our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u12	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The economic crisis poses a real challenge to Parliament and the government: to save money, to protect against unemployment, to stimulate the economy. This is far from a complete list of priorities and, I emphasize, real problems. At the same time, government opponents seem to be living in some virtual reality, in a matrix like this. Maybe it's because some national MPs are more likely to be on television than at Parliament meetings. In this virtual reality, the work of the President's Secretariat starts daily not to address the economic problems of the country and its solutions. No, it's not. The head of the President’s Secretariat is conducting a so-called, situational room in the morning. At this meeting, we produce anti-government these, and we determine which of the Bank's clerics and the Party of the Regions' speakers will sound them. After such meetings, the National Security and Defence Council is held, more like a revolutionary tribunal. In the antigovernment fire, the head and secretary of the body forgot not only about common sense but also about the Constitution. I remind you, under the Basic Law, the PNB coordinates and controls the activities of the executive authorities in the area of national security and defence. But recent events have shown that in the Ukrainian realities, the NPB coordinates and controls the activities of the Secretariat of the President and the Party of the Regions aimed at breaking down the government's work on national security. And that's very sad. And our citizens don't have a relationship at all, people are interested in something else. We have many important questions in our daily life. Let's work instead of dealing with other political charges. And it's enough to put forward initiatives for the presidential and Supreme Council elections. Time-consuming social upheaval is not needed by Ukraine at the same time or separately. Note that when “political vertualism” disappears from Parliament, it dramatically increases its coefficient of beneficial action. Remember, on Tuesday, February 3, we decided to vote on the trust of the 5th government on Thursday. And it turns out Wednesday we don't even have any problems arguing, there was no politics separating MPs. And a series of questions were received by 300 to 400 votes. For example, 349 deputies voted in favour of the State Property Fund Act. Regrettably, the head of state spends most of his working time on intrigue and the fight against other branches of government. For example, all last week and this one too, the President called the members of our faction on "sufficient" conversations and urged them to leave the coalition. At the same time, they're looking for any legal implications to paralyze the work of Parliament and the Cabinet of Ministers. Instead of such intrigues, Victor Andriyovich may want to consider fulfilling his constitutional obligations. For example, over the worthy candidates of the Ukrainian Security Service and the National Bank of Ukraine. How long could it have been to be cut off from reality and not want to accept the fact that Nazbank's head of parliament had already released Parliament several times. In the past, Chancellor Bismarck has developed a strategy of power that has been called "real politics" – that is, when the target justifies any means. Bismarck was later accused of not always using moral methods to protect national interests. In the Presidential Office, we have invented a method of “virtual politics” – it is when they harm national interests with absolutely immoral means. In the "matrix" of the President's Secretariat there may be a pre-load, a revolution, whatever, but it remains virtual. Time for the real world with real problems! Such a realistic approach should be demonstrated by the Supreme Council. I encourage all my colleagues to focus on the daytime issues, and the loud statements to be moved from the session hall to the clocks, and there are also the cameras. People expect real work from parliament, not virtual politics. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u13	National Deputy Stoyan, Party of the Regions. Herman Hanna Mikolayevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u14	First, I want to correct the government coalition that was here today saying that in Ukraine it was soon spring work. In Crimea, they are almost sown and are already sown in the Tavrian Steppe. This is so helpful to you that you know that the sowing work in Ukraine is already under way. Dear colleagues, never in all years of independence has Ukrainian Parliamentarianism found itself in such a dramatic situation that we are experiencing today. This drama is born of the realization that, in times of great hardships during the global crisis, Ukraine has not been able to counter these threats of decisive and competent authority. And here's the result. Today, world experts have said that Ukraine is 90 percent already on the verge of default. And the decline in industrial production today, these are also new figures, are equal to the 41st year when the Great Homeland War began. We didn't find our Obama with a bold plan. We didn't have our own Ludwig Erhard, chancellor of post-war Germany, who said, "The useful thing we could get out of the world crisis in the 1930s was that our destiny tells us to stick together." We had no Ukrainian Putin ready to fight for the dignity and strength of Russia until the last. We don't have Viktor Yanukovic's power right now, who raised the level of economic growth in Ukraine to the highest in Europe during his reign. In today’s catastrophic situation, the people have neither heard from the President nor the Prime Minister how Ukraine will cope with the crisis, how the state will help citizens survive under conditions of hunger, cold, unemployment, inflation, and inability to pay their loans. Business did not expect tax cuts, investor benefits, and the fight against corruption in the community of officials. Instead, the people, along with him and the international community, had the opportunity to learn how the Ukrainian authorities were able to shame themselves at a meeting of the U.S.N.O., how they were perfectly humiliating themselves. The Supreme Council is also demonstrating this inability to stand up for society. Unlike the presidential and premier branches of power, however, exercising branches of authority that are ultimately lost, Parliament can still preserve its dignity in the eyes of the people. But if he does. The answer to that question is the dramatic situation in which we find ourselves. By rephrasing the ancient Romans, I will turn to my colleagues. Kalent Consulates, - MPs, be vigilant. The Republic is in danger. She is also in danger because the election can take place only when and where she can win the BET. If BUT realizes he doesn't win, he's doing everything he can to break this election, just as he's trying to do in the Ternopil region. In the country, respected colleagues, there is complete infidelity. And the disappointment that is more terrifying and dangerous than any economic crisis. People no longer believe anyone, no promises, no television calls. In fact, Julia Volodymyrna spent only six and a half million dollars of government funds on them in December. These appeals will no longer help to restore credit to power. We're in regions, we're talking to people, we know people are thinking about power, and how they appreciate its concern for themselves. Some say the same thing about the Supreme Council of Ukraine. They do not believe that there is a parliamentary majority in this room. They know that waiting for the rapid adoption of an anti-crisis program in the walls of Parliament is a futile matter. In this situation, the only responsible decision of Parliament would be to announce the parliamentary elections for the term. It's something you can't miss. The question is whether we will do it ourselves, whether it will force us to do it. A party of regions understands that it is not easy to count on consensus on this issue. But we know there's no other way out.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u15	Finish it, Anna Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u16	Then, or Parliament will demonstrate that unlike the President and the Prime Minister, he remains the only responsible force, or he will be disgraced just as the President and the Prime Minister today have. When it's written on the fences, all of them, it doesn't necessarily mean just political technology.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, the factions are over. Catherine Timofievna Vaschuk suggested that we include in the next plenary week a draft Law amending the Notaryate Act. Catherine Timofievno, I inform you that according to the Conciliation Council decision, this bill is scheduled for consideration at this plenary week. If you don't mind, we'll look at it first. Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko proposed the inclusion of Bill 3560 into the agenda. I ask the Supreme Council apparatus to prepare information on compliance with regulatory procedures, and at the beginning of the evening plenary, we will return to this question. And as was the decision of the Conciliation Council on the basis of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, today, at 16 o'clock, we will be considering draft laws amending the Tax Act of the Owners of Means of Transport. This is information to make it clear that at 4: 00 p.m. yesterday on the Conciliation Council, a decision was made, transferred from the morning plenary meeting to the evening consideration of these issues. Honorary colleagues, in accordance with part five of article 79 of the Supreme Council Rules, may at any time ask the question of recalling the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the First Deputy or Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Last week 151 Ukrainian national deputies registered a corresponding draft of the Order after calling off the first deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Part four of article 76 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine imperatively requires that the issue of consideration be included in the agenda of the day’s session no later than the next plenary day following that proposal. In this regard, I now put to the vote the proposal to include in the agenda of the day’s current session the question of recalling the first deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ms. Lavrinović, Alexander Volodymyrovich. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:37:35]] For 209 The decision is not taken. The question of the order of the day session is not included. [[Applause]] The factions, please. Region Party – 0, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko” – 151, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 32, Communists – 26, “Clocus of Lithuania” – 0. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please log in. National MP Reva, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u18	Please pass the word to Miroshnichenko Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u19	Yuri Miroshnichenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u20	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. We couldn't help but take the floor on this vote, because now the effort was actually to deny our representation in the presidency of the Supreme Council. Today, Alexander Lavrinovich, who is one of the most skilled lawyers and quite tolerant representatives of the presidency working in the Supreme Council, is, in my opinion, a model in many matters for the work of those deputies who today supported his appeal. I think that Ukrainian democracy should not have a precedent when opposition is denied the right to work on equal terms with the majority. This right is also protected by the Constitution. Few, according to these political, public agreements, are the positions of the first deputy speaker of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u21	Zarubinsky National MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u22	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear colleagues! Expressions of motivation are statements that explain the motives of any vote. The chairman was told that there are now statements from the procedure, statements from the procedure apply to the procedure, so by clearly following the Rules, which is already the law and that is the fact, and I would like to welcome them all, I would like to say precisely about the procedure. Alexander Volodymyrovich, I suggest you. Well, we've got a few orders going on in the daytime. I propose that we look at them in a simplified way, because they apply to parliamentary hearings, and what's called two-for-two is against enough to look at it. And I also have a proposal, and this is a proposal for the Lithuanian Block. Everyone can see that today’s agenda is a complete booklet, many questions, including urgent questions. Today, I suggest that we consider what may be a simplified procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u23	National Deputy Stishenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u24	Thank you. I'd like to give John Grigorovich Kirilenko, head of the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, the honourable presiding officer, I once again draw attention to the offer of our faction. We have proposed not just to consider certain bills in a reduced procedure, but, given the order of the day, over 100 bills, we propose today, and the following days of plenary work until the day's order is fully exhausted. That's the first one. And I ask you to put this question to a vote at an earlier session. The second question. Dear colleagues, someone is adhering to the opposition. I can call it very difficult, and our faction, our colleagues in the Party of Regions, that they are opposition. You've been working and working with the Secretary of the President for a long time, and that's far from opposition, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u26	National MP Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u27	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine!” Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, we have a request for the inclusion of three documents in the agenda as first-line documents. First of all, our group has introduced a draft decree of 4049: support for the award of the name to the Donetsk National University of the Hero of Ukraine, Vasil Stus. We believe that this decision can be taken by Parliament this week, although this will not be a commitment to the university, but it will be the position of the legislative body. And I'm asking a colleague from the BAT to support this position here, and then we'll spend this week. Two: 3668. My deputy Lapin and I have introduced a draft amendment to the Law on the Application of a Moratorium for Inspections for Small Business Enterprises by the end of this year, 2009. We ask that Parliament consider this issue this week. And Karpuka and Grigorovich's bill: 2538 is about social protection for medical and pharmaceutical workers. The wages were not paid, and so on, the law must be passed. Please consider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u28	People's MP Papiew.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, I propose to remove from the agenda the number 3686, which cancels the election in the Ternopil District Council. And I'd like to give the floor to Mrs. Hanni Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u30	Please, Herman Hanna Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, we all honor and love Vasil Stus. But only pre - Christian students and teachers of the University of Donetsk have the right to choose whose name to judge or not to judge their university. Basil Stus would have turned over in his grave if he saw you putting his name on someone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u32	The national deputy Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u33	I support the proposal made by the leader of our faction, Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko. Really, let's get to work now.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u34	Thank you. The procedure has been completed. Zarubinsky's National and People's Deputy Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich suggested that we work under a reduced procedure on all the issues that I have correctly understood. And the question was, John Grigorovich Kirilenko, that we should work all the plenary days before the finalization of those issues that are on the agenda for the current day. I am voting on the proposal to consider all issues of today’s short-term procedure. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:45:02]] For 208 Decision taken. All questions today will be dealt with by a simplified procedure. I now put to the vote the proposal that the Supreme Council of Ukraine work in plenary mode all days of the week until the last issue of the current day is considered. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:45:38]] For 205 The decision is not taken. We will work in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations. The factions, please. Region Party - 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 154, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" - 32, Communists - 0, "Block of Lithuania" - 19. Proposals made by Viacheslav Anatoliovich Kirilenko I'll also ask the Supreme Council apparatus to check the compliance with the regulatory requirements, and if you don't mind, we'll be back at the beginning of the evening plenary meeting to resolve the matter in the session room. And the proposal of the People's Deputy Papiev was made not to consider the draft decision to annul the elections of the Ternopil District Council. We spoke to the head of the “Julia Timoshenko Block” by John Grigorovich Kirilenko earlier today, and as it was scheduled for consideration on Thursday, there was such an understanding that it would not be considered today. I mean, if you don't insist, we're not going to vote right now, because that's the understanding. Don't insist. There is such an understanding. So let's move on to the agenda defined yesterday by the Conciliation Council of Ukraine according to the order of the last session and the individual issues we will include in the order of the day of the current session that were not included in the agenda of the previous session. A draft resolution on the resignation of the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Pinzenik Vladimir Mikhailovich, is being announced for consideration. Reportedly, the head of the Committee on State Building and Local Governmental Affairs, Omelchenko Alejandro Alexandrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u35	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs, good afternoon, distinguished Presidium! On February 12th of this year, the committee heard a statement by Viktor Mikhajlovich Pinzenik at the request of the Head of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Litvina, in accordance with the rules of procedure, discussed the application, and of the 12 national deputies 10, voted in favour, to grant the requests of Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, two national deputies did not vote. According to article 115, 118 of paragraph two and part two of the fourth paragraph, a member of the Cabinet of Ministers has the right to appeal to the Supreme Council and declare his resignation. Considering that Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenic’s statement did not provide any basic or secondary reasons for health or family status or job changes, the committee granted the request and made a draft decision for consideration of the session. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u36	Any questions to the committee head? Dear, summary procedure concerns bills, in this case a human resources issue is being considered. That's a personnel question, so please, if there's a question for the committee head? No questions asked. Then, please, let's sign up for a discussion. The People’s Deputy, Suhi, conveys the word of Azarov Mikola Janovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u37	Dear Alexander Vladimirovich, I have a question for you and for Omelchenko. Is Alexander Alexandrovich a financial policy specialist and is the committee professional to consider the statement made by the Minister of Finance? I think that consideration of the resignation of the Minister of Finance should have taken place on a committee of profile. And the Minister of Finance had to set out his principled position in his detailed note to the Prime Minister. The Committee was to have a substantive discussion on the state of budgetary and financial policy in the country. That's why I have a question for you, Alexander Vladimirovich, why was this issue of resignation considered on a non-level committee? And to Alexander Alexandrovich, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u38	Dear Mikola Janovich! As far as committee selection is concerned. In this case, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has the right to determine, in accordance with the Rules, the identity committee and the motive for which it was directed is obviously not a matter of sectoral orientation, but rather of the fact that the solution to the questions of the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers is referred to as the competence of this committee. And a statement written by the Minister of Finance himself was referred to this committee. Please, Alexander Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u39	Nikolai Janović, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there were two committees in the resolution of the President of the Supreme Council. The First and Main Committee, which I lead, and the Second of Azarov, is the 12th number, today the 17th number. Under the Supreme Council Rules, the Main Committee, which has not received the decision of other committees, is entitled to consider and refer to the session of the Supreme Council. That's what was done. Your committee has not yet considered Pinzenic's application for an unknown reason. So once again, I reiterate that the committee that I am leading on the construction and administration of local self-government has given regular consideration to issues and there are no violations. There is no political subpolarity in this either.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u40	Grigorovich Lilia Stepanovna, please. Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u41	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine” MP. Dear colleagues, this is a serious matter, and I would not want us to have it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u42	Room microphone, please, there's something wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u43	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine” MP. Honorable Colleagues and Honorable Voters! It's a serious question, I wouldn't want us to look at it like that in between. In the country, the minister of finance resigned, doing so as publicly as possible. Initially, the public acquired a letter from the finance minister on behalf of the Prime Minister. This letter, by the way, which I think has certainly taken place, has not been discussed in the government, so it has not been discussed by all cabinet members. After that, we received a public statement by the finance minister Pinzenic that he was unable to implement his professional skills in the government, since professional position is not now taken into account. Dear colleagues, I have worked with Victor Pinzenic in two governments, and in the first government of Timoshenko, and in the government of Yehanurov, this is a person who always stands up for his position, sometimes perhaps too emotionally, but always coming out of those realities dictated by the Ukrainian economy. In this connection, the “For Ukraine” MP is surprised that the Minister of Finance, who is currently in charge of these duties, is not in the Hall at present. What we're in a hurry to listen to Pinzenik here in this room to figure out if there's going to be an 8 percent drop in GDP or if there's an increase plus 0.4, that's a serious question for every Ukrainian. Let's listen to Pinzenic to figure out, after all, inflation is going to be 9 points or 23, as independent analysts predict. Of course, we wanted nine points, but we need to listen to a professional, a finance minister. Let us invite Pinzenik here and see if she has implemented the customs plan and if she has not completed 70 percent in January alone, what is the reason and what adjustments should be made. Let us listen to the minister and see if he has really implemented the tax revenue plan and in what way — whether in some way forced or advance payments, or whether it was the economic policy of January’s tax month. Let us not bury our heads in the sand and find out all these questions. Better yet, let the coalition, together with the Pinzenic question, say whether they're going to change government or whether they're going to leave government. And if they are changing the government, let them say how the course will change, if it changes, in which direction Ukraine will go. This would be a serious conversation between the serious deputies of the Ukrainian Parliament. And so we want to vote the verdict, the Head of the Supreme Council is gone, he's on his way out, let's not discuss any truth about the state of the economy, and so we won't know any truth about the state of the economy. It's about time. People are protesting in the street day after day. And they protest, including because they don't know the real situation. That's ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u44	Thank you, Viachelav Anatolyovich. For help, I will inform you that the reduced procedure does not extend to personnel issues. This question is therefore being considered in accordance with the procedure set out in the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenic is invited, if he considers it necessary, he will be present and we will be able to hear him. I think we'll have the opportunity at any moment after the discussion or in the middle to give him a word in order for him to explain from the rostrum the motives of his step and the statement he made. National Deputy Hrapov Sergey Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u45	Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u46	He's speaking to Petra Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u47	Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! We are considering with you the question of the resignation of the Minister of Finance. The Company's faction will vote in favour of this resignation. And why? Pinzenik is a member of the Chicago Boys team, which worked with Kravczuk, Kuchma and Yushchenko. It was this team of “Chicago boys” that developed, created and implemented a programme of trust companies that encircled millions of Ukrainian citizens, and that money has disappeared indefinitely and, in return, “villages” in their trust accounts and, of course, in offshore areas. It is this “Chicago boys” team for Ukraine that has put in place a plan for large-scale privatization, which has led to specific people. This, the esteemed voters, your unemployment, this is your poverty, this is your illness, this is your grave old age. For Ukraine, what Pinzenik and this team of Chicago Boys have brought is the destruction of our country's economic sovereignty. The political independence of Ukraine is at risk at all. This was their plan to implement the destruction programme of the Bank of Ukraine to initially destroy Ukraine's largest potential, our village, and it was stolen from the citizens, I recall 1.8 billion grevens. It was this team led by Pinzenik that, through the State Budget, destroyed Ukraine's development prospects in general, reduced the support of the socially disadvantaged poor. It is they who have done everything to abandon the support of the village. The IMF cooperation policy is loans, it's the depreciation of the bracelet, it's inflation, it's the neck loop, it's the economy, it's the ordinary citizens. This Pinzenik has personally blocked the adoption and signing of a zero option with the Russian Federation, which has already resulted in Russia paying an external debt of 16 billion dollars and, in the near future, I will not exclude Ukraine from this account. It is they, this team in charge such as Pinzenik, who are now trying to get away from responsibility again through resignation. I want to emphasize once again on behalf of the Communist faction. The time had come not only to resign them, but their resignation should be considered in the sessional room together, in the presence of the procurator of Ukraine. That will be the responsibility of the individual for all that has been done to destroy the economic independence of our country and the naturally destitute masses of people, and we will protect them here. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u48	National MP Yavorowski, please. There was a national MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, the Honourable Chief! I like it so much when “the crocodile tears” and the Ministry of Finance resigns those who have not hit their finger in this session room to implement the necessary work that has been submitted by the Ministry of Finance and the Government of Ukraine to deal with the global financial economic crisis. I really like the logic of those people who voted in favour of a minimum of living to break the budget that was being prepared for adoption in the Supreme Council, offering the Party of Regions and part of Victor Yushchenk's bloc a proposal that was actually then dedicated to the President himself because she didn't respond to any economic calculations. I really like those who today have crocodile tears when the Ministry of Finance and Government have offered a number of measures that have to do with the organization of oversized pensions. These people didn't vote for it in the session room. But today they tell us about the plight of pensioners today. I like those who cover up those illegal rings. a small business that uses the only tax to survive under today's conditions, and those who are currently working in large businesses, in liquor companies, in jewelry factories, paying and paying for a single tax, without actually paying a penny in the state's budget, these people were dropping these bills. And today it's said that there's no money in the budget. That's why there's a professional position of finance minister who's been announced, he doesn't want to be a hostage when the President of Ukraine, who hasn't passed a single bill to deal with the crisis in Ukraine, refers to the minister of finance, and at the same time, he's dropping all the bills that the government has tabled. I think it's blasphemy. And that is why in this situation there is an absolutely real opportunity for those who have and have demonstrated their ability to implement themselves in other directions, which is why the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko supports the offer of a finance minister to resign at his own request. And I think it's immoral, unfair and disorderly to speculate about this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u50	Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u51	I ask you to give the floor to Sergey the Chief of Staff, please pass the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u52	Your Honor, the presiding officer, the distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! The question is perhaps first in Parliament after the adoption of amendments to the 2004 Constitution, when Ukraine has changed to another modified form of government, when the government is appointed by Parliament, and when the government as a collegiate body is fully accountable to the people in the person of Parliament, whether it should consider the question of the voluntary resignation of the minister of a certain composition of the Cabinet of Ministers. This is the first time the minister himself resigns. So without going into the details of politics, as they say here, whether speculation or bickering between different offices, which in this situation would require both professional and political ethics, and the political responsibility of all authorities. For the most part, the political culture from the applicant himself is to be in the session room today. Because there are some things that have come out on the Internet that have really become the subject of discussion, speculation, exploitation. And no one knows the fundamental or true reasons that led the minister to a statement that had disappeared from the Internet. Any voluntary resignation of the minister must be discussed only in his presence. Because there can be different reasons. And the disagreement with the government's political course or the prime minister, and perhaps some kind of strong pressure on a minister, and other reasons, if they're not reasons for privacy -- health, moving to a different place of residence, changing citizenship or something. If these are political matters, the minister should stand here and answer the questions of all, all members of parliament, who want to ask questions to determine whether or not the minister has actually resigned voluntarily and what reasons have motivated him to do so. And then Parliament is defined. But, of course, the minister is not a slave, not a fortifier. He can't, his will to leave office is his will, and no one can keep him from working. Because if one faction has a fortification or slavery, it is a matter of faction that, through its imperative mandate, has led the fortification into its faction. But the minister is as free a man as any deputy, and he must stand on this stand. Too bad Viktor Mikhailovich, explaining his actions by professionalism in his field.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u53	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u54	Today, as a professional politician, it's not like he's standing on this stand. But I think we need to address this issue only in his presence. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, I just got off the phone with Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenic. He's in the hospital, actually. And he said he couldn't take part in the plenary. And I asked him to consider this without him, and I asked the national deputies of Ukraine to support his statement. People's Deputies, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u56	Paribay Andrey, “For Ukraine! ” I would like to respond immediately to the information provided by the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. The Minister of Ukraine is a man of public opinion and, apparently, not only should his opinion be decisive on whether he should report to the deputies on the Supreme Council’s stand or not. And I think this is where the Supreme Council thinks about it, too. And I'm convinced that this is an important issue, such as the resignation of a finance minister, which is actually the second person in the government, we have to go through the public discussion of the reasons for this resignation and the analysis of the situation in which the Ukrainian economy is located. Because this situation started a long time ago when we adopted the budget in the sessional hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Then the deputies from “Our Ukraine” who today join the “For Ukraine” MPs warned that these macro indicators on which the budget is based are too high, that they will not actually execute them. We recall how, in January, the President of Ukraine called on the Prime Minister and the Supreme Council to review the budget of Ukraine, considering it to be balanced. We also recall the extremely active response of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, who accused the President of all mortal sins and convinced us all that the budget was balanced and that the state could and should live on with that budget. And it would look like another dispute between the leaders of our state if the IMF mission hadn't arrived here for a long time, which confirmed that the International Monetary Fund could not give the next loan to Ukraine until a balanced budget was adopted in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and until it was based on real, not fantastic macro-indicators. And this actually became a signal to the Supreme Council, the government should gather together to think about what the faster we look at the changes to the budget that will bring it into line with the real state of the economy of Ukraine. Sadly, however, the government does not do so, and apparently the minister of economy is still unable to do his job fully. We need to hear this analysis, we need to analyze this analysis, because as a result of the fact that Ukraine cannot get the next tranche from the IMF, we are entering very questionable operations at the position of the Russian Federation. In general, I think it would be necessary to create a temporary commission of inquiry to investigate the conditions under which the terms of the loan from the Russian Federation were discussed from a state that makes a statement about Ukraine of territorial claims that wants to privatise the Ukrainian gas transport system that wants to leave the Black Sea fleet of Russia in the territory of our country. Taking credit from her today is a threat to Ukraine's national security, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u57	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u58	But this situation was actually called on by the unprofessional and irresponsible government to respond to the formation of the budget. We need to hear this analysis in the hall, and we need to address the issue of the resignation of the Minister of Economics only for what presence and only hearing his arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u59	National MP Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, it is a pity that even when we consider such a question, we are again starting to talk about politics. You know, it's very strange that when a minister of finance, any minister, making a statement, after this room refuses to vote for him, we don't want to confirm and support the voluntary will of a person that he can't or won't work in this position. You know, today to close your eyes on what is a financial crisis in the country is the same thing as today to close your eyes to the fact that winter is in the yard when you're sitting in a warm home. And you and I are playing politics again, and instead of working on economic transformation today, instead of dealing with the financial crisis, we're talking to you, and what would Mr. Pinzenik tell us from this rostrum right now? Maybe he would have told us something, but he's just given us information that he's in the hospital, and maybe it's more important for us today to go over the bill and forget that the finance minister today doesn't want to report or can't discuss his application. And we need to move on to more productive work. Today I am surprised to hear individual representatives of the political forces talking about their great desire to communicate with the minister. Have you not criticized this minister and criticized the entire composition of the Cabinet of Ministers in independence from names and positions? Today, criticizing is not the best thing in this room, the best thing is to support the bills that are now in the agenda. Let's look back a little bit: just recently, you've been laying siege to this rostrum in order to keep Mrs. Semenyuk-Samsonenko's head chair safe for one reason: she couldn't get to the session hall. Maybe it's not a very good comparison, because Mr. Pinzenik is following his own claim, but at the time we were holding you, you were holding Mrs. Semenyuk in your position, exactly how much state property has gone into opaque procedures. How much did this cost Ukraine’s State Budget? Nobody wants to count it today. Allow the government to work and run an anti-crisis program! If not, give us an alternative that everyone is silent about today, and everyone is very keen to cry out, but there is no alternative today to any opposition government or opposition. So today we have a program, a program to fight the financial crisis, we don't have to put sticks in the wheels, we need, if you want, help, if you don't want to work, you probably don't have to do anything, but don't mix. I believe that today we must vote in favour and support Mr Pinzenic's statement and give him the opportunity to work in others.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u61	Sebravsky Paul Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, it is very sad when former members of the same party give their head to the party and for the primitive future coalition advantages and the future place. Probably when he wrote. Not necessarily, but exactly when Victor Pinzenik, as the minister of finance, wrote a statement of resignation, he urged society and the Supreme Council to have a serious discussion, and in fact that letter he or she wrote, which was accurately published by his notoriety, was just an appeal to a serious conversation. How many calls would it take to vote now? To date, no serious document that would certainly have been set up to deal with the crisis has been presented in Parliament. Some elaborate movements, some tail beatings, came out. Some part of society on the street, blocked Kabmin -- some law on this matter is. Again, someone was speaking with someone. The act of protest is the law again. But some understanding of what to do in the economy today is not represented. For the first time in years not only of independence but in world practice, the minister of finance has not signed or budgeted the country to the Supreme Council. And that would be the first serious call for the Supreme Council. And you don't have to be a politician here, you don't have to tell us how much we love our Ukrainian people, because from words to things, unfortunately, there's a big difference. Because in fact, the only country that's setting cloudy projections that aren't going to be done and done, it's clear to everyone, except for those who want to fly into the presidential office. I'd like to say, guys, come on, don't rush to that presidential desk -- it's still a long way from here, and we still have to survive the February, March, April, when we're budgeting. There will be a serious crisis when there are serious problems throughout the country. And today, those who are considered favorites, no matter how they turn out to be outsiders. And today, you know, it's often said that it's better to be a minority shareholder in a billion-dollar business, which is a percentage of the bracelet business. Let's not do that again, to rise up in the ruins of your country, where your children live and your grandchildren live. I would still like to postpone today's discussion about the retirement of Pinzenik's finance minister, and we would still ask him to be present -- and we would have a professional, serious conversation with the State Budget, which is created with finance, which is ultimately created with the economy, and what is the plan to get out of this situation. I thank you and urge you not to take politics.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u63	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u64	and take those steps that will lead to the exit from the crisis state in which our state is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u65	Grigorovich Lilia Stepanovna, please, instead of the national deputy Gumenjuk Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u66	Lilia Grigorović, “For Ukraine” MP. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished voters, distinguished national deputies! Today's staff release is a very difficult redundancies -- it's a test, it's an x-ray, it's a symbol, if you want to know, of today's economic and human and financial and political situation. A few words about Victor Pinzenic, you know, we literally saw this tragedy last week when some people are clinging to a chair that you can't get out of, and others are yelling at that chair. I'm talking about a tragedy that was called an attempt to resign the government. Finance Minister Pinzenik always had the courage, the power and the civil position to resign when he was not in line with a policy that was conducted in contravention of professional national principles. And this example in his biography was in previous work with the previous president. I would like to point out that he proved to be right and today's situation has confirmed that last Thursday's report from the Prime Minister's lips, who said that we have everything as well as almost in that song: burned down both the house and the barn and the stable, but we have everything wonderful, we have no debts, the budget overrun, and on the second day the walkers rushed into debt, because there is nothing to live for. It turns out that the corresponding minister of finance is absolutely true, and it turns out that the International Monetary Fund. And it's better to depend on an international institution than a separate country that suffers from debt itself, because it's, in fact, a political cabala. So the International Monetary Fund didn't give Ukraine the next tranche of credit. So Finance Minister Pinzenic outlined the real situation. Today we are stuck in chairs so that we are afraid to speak the truth when telling the truth, saying that it is panic. When bluffing and lying to manic zeal from the rostrum, is that courage? So Finance Minister Pinzenik told the truth, and apparently it is high time we discussed this truth in Parliament. And a few words about the team. I remember the bright-headed guys from the PRP 5-10 years ago, they were the ones who were ready for national interest, for the truth to give it all away. Today, by dulling their head, they betray the truth, the national interests, of their colleague. It is very sad that there are about two dozen in parliament in Ukraine, but there is great happiness in that they are, for with them 46 million Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u67	According to article 34, part 3, of the Supreme Council’s Rules, a faction that did not participate has a guaranteed right to speak. From the faction of the Block of Lithuania, I invite Oleg Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. There is politics, there is politics, and there is basic common sense. Clearly, everyone builds this hierarchy for themselves. For me personally, for the Lithuanian Block, we put common sense first. What are we talking about? The minister resigned. He did so knowingly, and all his actions show and demonstrate that this is a final decision. Yes or no? Yes. If he resigns, and he is a solid person, no matter how much he discusses, then he will not work in this office, at least in this government. Yes or no? Yes. Is he a solid man? Of course, a solid person, unlike perhaps some of our colleagues who resign and then do everything they can to prevent their retirement. I don't think Victor Pinzenic is from this cohort. What does it reveal? It turns out that there's a desire, on the one hand, to pat this person, on the other hand, to make a halo of holiness and make a national hero. Well, there's no such thing or other in life. Obviously, this person doesn't deserve to be pushed around, but frankly, he doesn't deserve these difirambs, which we all do, by the way. What's the solution, what's the constructive solution? The Minister of Finance in this office won't or won't work. The situation in the country is, above all, in the financial and economic sphere. Is this block supposed to work? May. Does another person have to work in this position, regardless of his last name, but lead this office? Yes. So let's take first place in the hierarchy of what I said put basic common sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u69	The discussion is over. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Decree No. 4065 “On the resignation of the Minister of Finance of Ukraine Pinzenik Viktor Mihajlovich”. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:23:36]] For – 238 Decision taken. By factions, please show me. The Party of Regions – 1, "The Block of July Timoshenko" – 154, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 37, communists – 27, "Block of Lithuania" – 19. The draft Regulation on Parliamentary Hearing on the topic “Contemporary state and prospects for agriculture and the food industry of Ukraine” is announced for consideration. Reportedly, the deputy head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Sergey Mikolayovich Tereshuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u70	Mr. Chairman, honourable fellow national MPs, the need to hold parliamentary hearings on the “Contemporary state and prospects for the development of agriculture and the food industry in Ukraine” due to the particular importance of agriculture and the food industry for the socio-economic development of our state. Dear colleagues, the development of agriculture and the food industry is not a political issue. This is the question that applies to each one of us, the national MP, of every citizen of our nation. According to the World Health Organization, the health rate of life spans depends 70 percent on the ecological situation and the food we eat with you. This is a very relevant issue today, given that about 70 percent of Ukrainians spend their income on food. So what we eat, at what we buy, depends on both the welfare and health of our people. Moreover, I would like to point out that the food industry is a sector that is at the forefront of our nation's economy. After all, third place after metallurgy, after machine building, is the food industry. And the food industry is an oil-fat industry, it's a sugar industry, it's a milk industry, it's an alcohol industry, it's a liquoric gorilla. There's a failure in the circle. Sugar factories. Sixty sugar factories worked from 196, and 40 sugar factories were stopped each year. The market has flooded the sugar imported from beyond the border. Spirt's branch is a problem. The oil-fat industry is a problem, we've lost markets in Europe. There are some problems around here. And if we can't address this problem today, if we can't get everyone's attention, the population, and the specialists, and the experts in other fields: health, the State, we can't move this important issue out of place, which I emphasize is still relevant to each of us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u71	Is there a need to discuss? Yes. Please log in. Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u72	Dear colleagues! It is certainly necessary to support this draft regulation and the subsequent draft decisions relating to the conduct of our parliamentary hearings. But what I would like to do right now is turn to my esteemed colleagues, who in this session room are not the first year and not the first call, do you think it's time to listen to us right now, at the parliamentary hearings, about our effectiveness in our work? Government days, parliamentary hearings, you see, I can just say. According to our Committee on Social Policy and Work, how many decisions have been made, how many recommendations have been made. How is the implementation of these decisions and recommendations being monitored? At the committee level, it's being implemented. Is it not time, fellow Members, to come, here in this sessionary room to hold parliamentary hearings with the participation of all the state bodies, where to ask about the effectiveness of parliamentary hearings, on the effectiveness of implementing the decisions of these parliamentary hearings. This is, by the way, the same problem as our temporary commission of inquiry. There can be no commission of inquiry in the name of the commission of inquiry. And then there's no solution and no effect, except for the pyar and the air shock. We have today: either after parliamentary hearings, we're going to make recommendations, and we're going to work out, we're going to take the necessary legislation, or we're going to turn parliamentary hearings into a regular speech. I therefore call for support for this draft regulation, to support other draft decisions, but at the same time to put at the right level the task and issue of establishing proper effective control over decisions, recommendations adopted as a result of parliamentary hearings. Because we're here, remember, and we invite people who are present in this room for once in their lives, they listen, they take part, they hope that after their performance something will change, we have one chat left. Therefore, the effectiveness of the hearing needs to be raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u73	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u74	The honourable presiding, honourable colleagues, the faction clearly supports the decision - making process. Indeed, the question has matured so that, at a serious parliamentary level, with the participation of leading professionals, science, first and foremost, the practice that has been put in place today, it can be heard in depth and meaningfully. The government is holding appropriate meetings at the Prime Minister's level today, and they've already come up with cooperation in agriculture. So we're already talking about infrastructure things that haven't gotten their hands on yet. So there is a clear picture of Ukraine in the world, positioning it today and in the future as a serious agrarian player in the world's agrarian markets. Ukraine's agriculture has really moved the Ukrainian economy, and it's not just words, because look at the external economic balance, it's the only positive thing at large from the agricultural sector. And the figures each year are growing, and growing, the presence of Ukraine is increasing, increasing and increasing, and despite the many problems that are common in this area. We basically supported the government in this room, and we solved the issue forever, under the special cost-added tax regime, and each year it was a fight, literally for every vote every year. We decided in principle on the issue of tax simplification from the system of fixed agricultural taxes, we solved many other issues. And on the turn of the law on Thursday, which deals with many more agrarian issues. But we really need to address the issue in a comprehensive, thoughtful way, not in a reduced procedure, of course, and not even in a normal mode. Parliamentary hearings may be the only opportunity in large numbers -- both government officials and scientists and experts -- for us to fully address the issue in the complex. Because, indeed, Ukraine is still today, and the future agrarian state. But seeing that the threat of hunger in the world is not empty words. Plus alternative energy is also due to agriculture. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u75	Deputy Knyazevich, do you mind? A faction that hasn't signed up has a right if you don't mind. Deputy Knazevitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u76	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! I do not object in any way to the decision itself, nor do I claim to deny the constitutional right to initiate any relevant parliamentary hearings. But I would like to point out that on September 14, 2006, the Supreme Council adopted Decree 155, which tried to organize the process of dealing with the issue at parliamentary hearings. The essence of this arrangement is this: in order for the issue to be the subject of parliamentary hearings, it must first be the subject of committee hearings, as it is in the vast majority of the world's parliaments. Moreover, this decree makes it clear that such a question can only be settled for the conclusion of a committee hearing. So I would like to draw your attention, my honourable colleagues, and the honourable chairman, that, without denying that we should now make such a decision, we should have in our hands the appropriate conclusions of committee hearings. And then we're going to make a judgment, because without a profile discussion on a committee of this kind, parliamentary hearings are going to turn into propaganda, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u77	I see the committee's representatives would like to respond immediately if you agree to save time. I understand that you will say that the matter is being prepared, prepared, discussed, and then moved to the session room. Did I pass on your words correctly? That's right. Thank you. I am voting on the draft decree on the current state and outlook of agriculture and the food industry in Ukraine. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:33:09]] For 402 Decision taken. The draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on "Foreign Ukraine: Modern State and Future Cooperation" is being announced for consideration. Reported by Ukrainian national deputy Tarasyuk Boris Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u78	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Boris Tarasyuk National Movement of Ukraine, “NU-NS” faction. Your attention is on the proposal for a draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on “External Ukraine: a state of the art and prospects for cooperation”. Foreign Ukraine has always played and continues to play an important role in the history of our nation. It is difficult to overestimate his strong contribution to the development of national culture, the formation of a positive image of our country abroad, the recognition of the international community of independence and the sovereignty of the Ukrainian state in the early 1990s. The Ukrainian communities outside Ukraine in Soviet times were the hubs of the National Consolidation. Where is the truth about the events in the occupied homeland and the famine, and the national-liberal struggle of the UN-UPA, and the movement of the sixties, became known to the entire world society? The contribution of Ukrainian Diasporas to the restoration of our country’s independence and the careful preservation of historical memory is invaluable, and we should always remember that. It is also worth recalling that in the early years of Ukraine’s restored state independence, it was the Ukrainian diasporas who contributed funds and bought premises for the diplomatic and consular institutions of our nation. One important task of our nation must be to support the Ukrainians, protect their interests and satisfaction not only in Ukraine but also outside our country. Today, the number of Ukrainian citizens, according to various data and sources, ranges from 16 million to 20 million. Foreign Ukraines are settled in nearly a hundred countries of the world and more niche in sixty countries of the world. Our nation’s obligation to care for the needs of national, cultural, and spiritual Ukrainians. It should be noted that there are no times in our walls.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u79	Finish Boris Ivanovich. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u80	That's why, along with the deputy Bilozore Olga Volodymyrovna, we made a draft decision. We agree with the conclusion of the profiling committee that the date of these hearings should be October of this year. So I'm asking you to support Bill 3055D. The bill and the idea are supported by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u81	Thank you. Please, Oleg Alexanderovich Zarubinsky. Of course, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u82	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! For many years, we have been talking about the active development of ties with foreign Ukrainians or Ukrainians abroad, citizens of our country, who are constantly living abroad or who have made a profit, that their legal protection, that their involvement in the formation of our country, the recognition of the role of Ukrainians abroad as a powerful force in developing relations with the countries of the world community should become important aspects, important directions of Ukrainian State policy. However, the situation here cannot be called positive. And that's why we find it perfectly timely and appropriate to offer Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk and Oksana Volodymyrna Bilozer to hold appropriate parliamentary hearings. And at our meeting, at the meeting of the committee of profile, we considered the draft of this decision and we acknowledged, supported the proposal of our fellow members of the national MPs. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the Committee on Issues and European Integration and Foreign Affairs also supported the idea of doing so. At the same time, we come out of the need to do everything in order for hearing to have a concrete, realized and principally recognized outcome. In our view, this will require careful preparation, specific proposals and recommendations that should be made for public and government discussion. In addition, an invitation to foreign participants should be made in accordance with practice at least a few months before the hearings are held. Under these circumstances, we are. I offer to fully agree with the idea of honourable colleagues and to change the date of the meeting. We consider this to be the best option for the fifth session, and in particular for the fifth session.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u83	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u84	I'm done. And, in particular, October of the month. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u85	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? There's a need. Please log in. Oxana's BIV Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u86	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! The point is that this draft law on the Ukrainians' regulation was proposed in 2008. That was absolutely logical. And there is an enormous need for it, no doubt. But in 2008, the budget was worth 15 million dollars to Ukraine abroad. Today, only 100,000 dollars are recorded in Ukraine’s foreign budget! And, you know, it sounds a little cynical. And I suggest that when the budget changes are made, you think about whether an article of foreign spending is increased in those frameworks, in those needs that deserve our country, which is abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u87	Quiet Paul Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u88	Pavlov Mokchan, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko". Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! It is understood that 20 million outside Ukraine is a serious subject for us to neglect inside, culturally, informationally, linguistically, not to worry about what is outside Ukraine. And such parliamentary hearings are essential. Because even recently, the conversation that took place in the walls of the Academy of Diplomacy, the Higher Diplomacy Academy at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs showed where, together with representatives of various areas, we discussed one small topic of restitution of our cultural values. We've discovered sea-sea problems. One of them, who I witnessed, was, for example, the existence of a library or a center of Ukrainian science in France in Sarcel. This is once purchased at the expense of a diaspora building that contains priceless treasures. It's a bookshop where a large group of scientists have been working on the encyclopedia of Ukrainian science, giving us all of what was an alternative to the Soviet, so-called, Ukrainian, or Ukrainian encyclopedia. It's at the end of the critical state. No change is foreseen to keep or at least in the near future to turn it into a cultural center. And there can be a lot of cultural centers outside Ukraine. And so I think we need to listen to these, at these parliamentary hearings, all the problems with Ukraine. How to help the state make close contact with Ukraine, especially with the fourth.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u89	Cibenko Peter Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u90	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, the beginning of the discussion of this issue has shown, and this is no secret to anyone that there are many deputies in the Hall of the Supreme Council who are more concerned about the fate of foreign Ukrainians than the Ukrainians here. You know who and what it is proposed to invite, whom and what it is proposed to support. I would like our voters to understand that this is not at all about the Ukrainians who went abroad in search of a piece of bread to make themselves bread. This is about people who for decades have lived in their distant overseas, well - being overseas, who love Ukraine so far. So if they truly love Ukraine, they should come to Ukraine, knowing about the plight and laying their shoulders. Whom and why are they calling Ukraine in this way? The whole of Ukraine was a witness when at one of the conventions of foreign Ukrainians, this rostrum was used, in direct air, in order to defile Ukrainians, the indigenous population of Ukraine, the war veterans who defeated Fascism, while the President publicly rewards those who did so on stage. I think that in Ukraine today a lot of other problems that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is going to focus on, and only after solving these urgent, urgent problems can we address this problem. So the faction of the Ukrainian Company is not in time to vote for these parliamentary hearings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u91	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, I asked for words because I had not looked into the order of the day before. On one occasion, this cooperation was missed when he called for a vote in favour of all the bills for holding parliamentary hearings. The point is that such hearings, with the order of the day, such as foreign Ukraine, can be easily and simply considered on the committee. We have one committee, we have another committee, please let them meet on the committee, work. But I was surprised by the question. It turns out that a foreigner needs to be made available to cooperate with them. I know that millions of dollars have been allocated from Ukraine's budget to various organizations, including the public organization Education, and Education could share with foreign Ukraine or, for example, do such hearings, or do such work on the basis of Educations, that would be great. Well, that's the point. In this case, I want to support my fellow cybenk, and I remember these gatherings, and nothing good, except for the political upheaval, does not give political resistance. One policy and one effort to teach us here, what history we have to confess or what we need to teach. We'll figure it out. Therefore, I propose this Order to hold parliamentary hearings with such an order of the day as foreign Ukraine, to reject and not vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u93	The discussion is over. I am voting on the draft Resolution 3055-d on parliamentary hearings on "External Ukraine: the state of the art and the prospects for cooperation". [[11:46:01]] For 232 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u94	By factions, please: Region Party – 1, "Timoshenko Yulia Block" – 151, "Our Ukraine" – 61, "National Self-Defense"., Communists – 0, "Litvina Block" – 19. A draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings "The Ukrainian Innovation Strategy 2010-2020 in Globalisation Challenges" is under review. Vladimir Ivanovich Polohlo will report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u95	The Honourable Chief, Honorary Colleagues here are widely told that among the main factors in the country's competitiveness in general and the national economy is the very introduction of effective innovation policy mechanisms that ensure the competitiveness of the economy in the strategic perspective. I want to say that most of the countries that link future economic development in their own country to gains and science and active innovation have developed documents that define the conceptual and strategic vision of the national innovation system. This document was first developed in the United States, and is owned by the United Kingdom, France, Germany, China, and Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan. Last year, Russia, for example, held three parliamentary hearings on economic innovation, and the innovation strategy was approved in 2006. We're way behind here. And what I'm saying is that the development of our national innovation system as a separate subject of state policy, strategic development goals, basic principles and the functioning of the national innovation system in the legal and regulatory framework are virtually absent. And yet the world's experience testifies, especially in times of crisis, to the difficult period when it comes to achieving certain goals with limited resources or resources, when resources are shrinking, it causes, paradoxically, a powerful increase in innovation in the country, and examples are Germany, and France, and Israel, and Finland, and India. So this situation is precisely what causes the efforts of legislators, government, scientific, business circles of society to be consolidated in an optimally integrated solution to the strategic, tactical problems of creating a national innovation system. I want to say that the committee was looking at this issue three years ago.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u96	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u97	And the authors of the decree are all the members of the committee, the representatives of all the totally factions. This has been unanimously accepted by our committee, and I ask all in attendance to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u98	Is there a need to discuss? I can't see my hands. I am voting on the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings "The Innovation Strategy for Ukraine 2010-2020 in Globalisation Challenges". Registration number 3632. Please vote. [[11:49:41]] For 370. Decision taken. The draft Law on Parliamentary Hearings on Health Finance and Health Insurance in Ukraine is announced for consideration. Reports the head of the Committee on Health Care, Tetjana Dmitrovna Bacheviv.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u99	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! We have already registered this draft regulation last year, and it is good that we are considering a very important issue today. I think that none of those present need be convinced that the health of the nation is the individual wealth of every human being and also the wealth of our State. We are the people's deputies and members of the Government responsible for the health and preservation of Ukraine's gene pool. I find it unacceptable today to silence the industry's problems and confuse medicine and politics and to delay the resolution of these problems for a certain period of time. Medicine has been living in extremely difficult conditions for 17 years and has been working only because of the inspiration and professionalism of health workers. But it can't go on forever. Indeed, the health situation is extremely critical. At the rate of death, Ukraine is first among the countries of Europe, and we are unable to cope with the tuberculosis epidemic, the HIV infection for many years. 900,000 Ukrainians suffer from cancer, almost 300,000 deaths annually from cardiovascular diseases, and 40 percent of school graduates are smokers. The profession of physician has become impeccable and unattractive to talented young people. These terrible figures are followed by the fact that only 7 programmes are funded from 25 government programmes. The average salary for a medical worker is 1,100 bracelets and the starting doctor is 700 bracelets, less than the yard or conductor. The equipment that is now in our medical facilities is morally and physically outdated: 80 percent have been placed in scrap metal for a long time. And how Ukrainian doctors treat patients today if they are being treated.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u100	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u101	Thank you. For treatment – 5 bracelets, for food – 4 bracelets. Therefore, the main issue before us, parliamentarians, requires a solution. It is a matter of choosing a further path. All CIS countries — Russia, Kazakhstan, Moldova — have long gone to additional sources of industry financing, to a fiscal and insurance model. Such a model should have been in our country for a long time. We have twice held committee hearings on this issue in the presence of a large number of doctors and practitioners, and medical scientists. Therefore, we ask very much for this order to hold parliamentary hearings in May, and let it be May 20th, Wednesday, plenary week from 15th to 18th. I think that very many people's deputies will also participate actively in these parliamentary hearings. Thank you for your attention. I hope you'll be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u102	Is there a need to discuss? Yes, we're writing down, please. Thank you, Aunt Dmitry, sit down, please. Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, there is no doubt that this draft decision must be supported. There must be a vote and a serious, substantive, qualified, professional dialogue on what is going on in the health system should eventually be launched. For example, not the first year of this rostrum in this session hall do I hear the same naked statement of facts. I can add the facts to that. In the European region, WHO has established that since 2000, Ukraine has taken first place in Europe in terms of natural decline. According to the ECB's report, there is simply no change in the size of the applicants' peacetime. Another fact in general today, if you take 100 percent of the funding of medicine, is 65. So today, just 80 percent is pay, billing. And for eating, for feeding the sick, there is very little medicine left. Why did I come to this rostrum? I don't mean to be critical, but I want to say that without talking about the reasons for the low efficiency of the health system, we're not going to move anything out of place. I have in my hands a possible way to implement the health system in Ukraine. This booklet, after the work of not one minister of health long ago in our country, has long become clear, and it has long become clear, without finding additional alternatives to health - care funding, that the matter will not go away. So I'm asking you all, when will a bill be submitted to this session room at least for consideration, for discussion, on the introduction of mandatory government social and health insurance? Without this conversation, we will not increase the effectiveness of the health system. Recommendations on this bill were made in other parliamentary hearings on other issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u104	Samolikka Katerina Seminovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u105	The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will certainly support the decision, for today’s health is indeed a source of distressing problems. And of course we have to look at them. What is even more surprising to me is that it is precisely on the quota of the President of Ukraine that the Minister of Health, and unfortunately for this period, has absolutely nothing to do with strengthening and the material and technical base in Ukraine, and nothing has been done to resolve other issues. This is the president's responsibility and, of course, this is the responsibility of the minister who passed the quota of the President of Ukraine. Rural medicine is of particular concern today. We know that in many villages, the FAPs are practically closed and destroyed, or they're barely chewing, without a sufficient material and technical base. We also know everyone in the districts, because there's a lot of talk about it, and if we are, we know that even a person with a severe disease can't be brought to the center to help him. During the meeting, the village heads are asking us whether we can't solve the issue, even though our technique, there's "Slavuta" or "Lada, or any other machine, to give to every village council, so that we can send people on our own to drive medical care. It's a shame! We're talking about insurance medicine, that's very good, Aunt Dmitry, but who are we going to deal with? From someone who doesn't have a job? Who's left behind from the factories and factories? It's really a question, but it's when the economy works, it's when a person gets a decent one.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u106	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u107	When a person receives a salary. And it's not good for us to translate into parliamentarians the problems that the state has to solve on the shoulders of people who are barely surviving today. We will support this decision, it, parliamentary hearings are essential, but then there must be concrete action.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u108	National Deputy Gnatkovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u109	Deputies! I signed up, although I have nothing to do with medicine. As a patient. Because if there were no patients, doctors and health care reforms were not needed. I didn't sign up for what I'm up for, but I'm up for the accents that I'm supposed to put here. What is the point of reform? When it comes to insurance medicine, perhaps it is a problem, and it needs to be considered. When it comes to reforming only the system of institutions, subordinates, institutions or questions, it's still a little bit about the healing aspect of the problem. Today, we have pharmacology, pills, injections, droplets, or chemistry. People who are healthy, practically, are no longer in this system. Our Ministry of Health is not properly called, and it should be called the Ministry of Chronic Medicine and Pharmacology. The pharmacy in Ukraine today is more than a bank, and more than a gastronomy! If I had been treated 28 years ago as I had been recommended to treat asthma that I was terminally ill, I would have grown weed for 27 years. Dear colleagues! I was reading a program of government activities in the medical field. There is money available for AIDS prevention and tuberculosis, but that is not enough. Who does our own health care, who warns of illness, who warns of chronic diseases. We don't have it, and we don't have it. We're in our faction, I hope we don't mind discussing the ways of health care in a medical way. And until the emphasis is shifted from chemotherapy to physical therapy, to natural treatments, to explaining to people how to eat how to live, the problem is likely.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u110	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u111	So today, no matter how much we reform, if the old treatment system is preserved, the patients will not be reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u112	The right to speak against has a representative of a faction that has not been registered. Please, Oleg Alexanderovich Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u113	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. It's really tight because our faction is going to vote in favour of this health project. But I'd like to know why I took the floor for two moments. The first, as is the theme of parliamentary hearings, is the essence of parliamentary hearings. Because there are different approaches, for example, to insurance medicine and it is clear that with the participation of professionals, professionals, people who take direct care of it and deal with it, there can be real hearings in the form of a discussion. And the second position, I would very much like to think that, since this has been the case, the ways of reforming health care and health insurance in Ukraine have been so successful that conclusions and recommendations, as never before, are absolutely concrete and effective that we really, I think professionalism will suffice Aunt Dmitry, members of her committee, so that this is not a statement of what it is. Parliamentary hearings need to draw conclusions on what needs to be done, and I hope that this can be done by a committee of profile. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u114	The discussion is over. I am voting on the draft Decree No. 1432 on Parliamentary Hearings on Health Finance and Health Insurance in Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:03:14]] For 411 Decision taken. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u115	Dear colleagues! We continue our morning plenary session. The draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on "Contemporary status and current tasks to deal with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster" is being announced for consideration. Reported by the Ukrainian National MP, Mikola Haritonovich Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u116	Mikola Shershun “Block Lithuania”. Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! This year, as in the past, it is proposed that the Blackwater hearings be held on April 15th in the session hall on the topic “Contemporary state and current tasks to overcome the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster”. Their aim is to analyse the entire package of measures aimed at further socio-medical and psychological rehabilitation of the affected population, the socio-economic recovery of the territories, strengthening and supporting radiation safety barriers from the exploitation of the Chernobyl AES and transforming the shelter into an environmentally safe system. We need to examine how the ruling we voted at last year’s parliamentary hearings is being implemented. This decision is not just about challenging MPs and officials, it is real steps that must be taken by the government to improve the lives of the Chernobylites. Nearly a year later, out of the nineteen posts placed on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, less than half of the work was done. I am convinced that the time has come to implement more than ever the authority of the Supreme Council in part of its parliamentary control, as our fellow MP Suhi spoke twice today in his speeches. Today's biggest concern for people affected by the Chernobyl disaster is social protection and financing of Chernobyl programmes. Of all the regions, the call of injured citizens is made for a terrible state with free medical supplies. Increase in living minimum, Chernobyl disability pensions, increased funding for free nutrition for children, medical care, and rehabilitation for victims, as well as housing. The consequences of the Chernobyl disaster remain unsettled. Therefore, it is suggested that they be held in broad discussion of parliamentary hearings. Thank you very much, and thank you very much for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u117	Is there a need to discuss? Please log in. Writing complete. Before discussing this, I would like to ask the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy of Seminogue Anatoly Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u118	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The current nature of the matter does not call into question anyone. Of the problems that are now in this field, Mikola Haritonovich reported to you in his speech. I would just like to add that the relevance is also that today, in the media, this problem is being seriously raised. And a major contribution to solving this problem was the signing of yesterday's Treaty between the Prime Minister of our State, Yulia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko and the European Development Bank, and the reconstruction of 135 million euros for the construction of Chernobyl objects. The Committee on Environmental Policy, the Environment and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster at its meeting considered the draft decision made by the People's Deputies of Seminog, Chersun and Olijnik, and the proposal of the Supreme Council to hold a hearing on the subject “Contemporary status and current tasks to overcome the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster”. The Committee on Rules, MPs, and the activities of the Supreme Council at its meeting considered the matter and suggested that it be supported by the Supreme Council. The Eco-politics Committee, in line with the conclusions of the Regulatory Committee, proposes to hold a meeting on 8 April 2009 at 10 a.m. People's deputies please support this draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u119	Samolica Katerina Seminovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u120	So it has become traditional for each anniversary of the great tragedy, the tragedy at the Chernobyl nuclear station, to be heard in Parliament. And I think, Alexander Volodymyrovich, that we really need once and for all life to accept that this is going to be a constant date. Well, it really is. You can't take it every year. And it seems to me that we don't just have to say that there was a tragedy, that there were consequences of the tragedy. This has been discussed for many years. And we need to give an answer to the people we invite here. And these are really people who worked because they are now working, or they really know, and they're also known for the consequences of the Chernobyl accident. Let's answer why they cancel out with each year's Chernobyl benefits, why is that happening? Why aren't all the neighborhoods still, so many years ago, but they're not provided with housing? And it's not just about the cities, it's about the villages. For example, in my hometown of Hersonian, there are neighborhoods that are still uninhabited. Why the children of the Chernobyl family are not healed in Artec, nor in the Youth Guard, nor in Eupatoria, nor in Scadovian, nor on “. Sagittarius, often near the 30km zone of Chernobyl, the Blackwater zone. This too needs to be answered. And why, in fact, sometimes we don't expect a penny to be recovered from these children. We need to give an answer, as we've been using all these years, and now we're using, really, the experience and the highly skilled professionals who worked at that terrible, tragic moment, and who are now working at the Chernobyl nuclear station. How are they materially provided? Whether the state gave them what they needed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u121	The discussion is over. I put to the vote a draft resolution on parliamentary hearings on "Contemporary status and current tasks to overcome the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster." Registration number 3601. Please vote. [[12:41:36]] For 334 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have a pending issue regarding the order of the day-to-day session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call. We took the basis of all the projects that came into the agenda. There is a suggestion that without discussion, we now resolve the issue of making a decision on the order of the day of the current session. Is there a denial? There's a denial, isn't there? Yeah. Please sign off on the procedure then. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u122	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the absence of Project No. 0954 in this project, on the principles of the operation of a single state system for the monitoring of production, supply, transportation, consumption and payment of fuel and energy resources and residential services. This project fell out of place for some unknown reason and was not included in this decision. I'd like to include him, because he was going through his first reading. And the absence of a government tool to obtain such operational and reliable information does not allow the timely detection, warning of an objective rise in prices and tariffs on consumption and industrial goods, energy, heat and water services, which leads to an unobjective assessment of Ukraine's energy supply, as well as an increase in the cost of energy resources. That is why I would like to include this bill – 0954. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u123	Yuri Anatoliyovich, 0954 is a transitional bill and is automatically included. We will, of course, print it into the agenda. There are no questions here. Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u124	Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, the Communist faction is ready to support the draft Order for the Order of the Day of the Fourth Session of the Supreme Council if the Bills of 2521, 2677, 3142 and 3656 are excluded from the list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u125	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u126	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, today we have adopted a draft Order for Parliamentary Hearings on the Ways of Health Reform and Medical Insurance in Ukraine. We supported this draft decision and we think it's very important for Ukrainian citizens. But we also had a proposal to include in the agenda the daily bills 1040, 1041, and 1042 on mandatory government social insurance. These bills are written by the national deputies Suhi, Denisov, Lilia Grigorovich, Shevchuk, Papiev. I would ask that these bills be included in the agenda. These are very important bills that improve the social protection of citizens and that are about to reform the health system and form additional sources of funding for the sector. Thank you, please. This is a consolidated position, and the authors of these bills are the deputies of all factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u127	Chef Roman Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u128	Please pass the word to Roman Tkachu.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u129	Roman Tchac, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u130	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, I ask you to record a bill under the transcript for number 256. It is called: “The introduction to article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of Populations from Infectious Diseases. ” He's already held a meeting of the profile committee. The point is that this law now obliges all children to be vaccinated. And if the child has not been vaccinated, he is not allowed to go to school, kindergarten, rest homes, and so on. I ask that this bill be included in the agenda for the next plenary week – 256. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u131	National deputy of Vyezovsky, please. You're filming, aren't you? Dear colleagues, a few questions raised. Regarding Bill 0954, mentioned by Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin. Right now, the head of the Apparatus is telling me that this project has been reviewed and rejected by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So there's no reason. I think we'll check it out, we'll check it out in the Apparatus, we'll figure it out. According to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, he was rejected. If the question is that he was not in the session room, then of course we can go back to his consideration. With regard to the deletion of the bills that Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk spoke about. This approach was discussed earlier, too, and you know that we then decided to include in the agenda everyone without exception the draft laws that were registered on the day of consideration of this issue when we were taking the order of the day. If Adam Ivanovich insists, we will now ask that these bills be deleted. Are you insisting? He insists. That's how I vote. I'm going to give you the numbers of these bills again with names. Please, Adam Ivanovich, list all projects with full names.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u132	Bill 2521 on the amendment of article 1 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression in Ukraine, Bill 2677 on the introduction to article 5 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression in Ukraine, Bill 3142 on the Reestablishment of Rights of Persons Deported by National Sign, Bill 3656 – Draft Law on the Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression, State Assistance to Rehabilitated Persons.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, I am putting to the vote the issue of removal from the agenda of the current session of Bills Nos. 2521, 2677, 3142, 3656, which is now listed by Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:49:31]] For 155 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 126, "Timoshenko Yulia Block" – 2, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 0, Communist faction – 27, "Litvina Block" – 0. The bills that Mikhailo Mikolaiovich Papiev was talking about, he looked carelessly, they were included, they were basically in order. Bill 0954 -- now clarified -- could be included in the session, it actually didn't have a deviation in the session room, it was a recommendation from the committee. That's why I'm voting. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait a second! 0954 is a proposal by the national deputy Karmazin. Please bet on the vote for inclusion in the agenda of the day session. [[12:50:36]] For 197 The decision is not taken. And lastly, Roman Mikhailovich Tkača's proposal, the 2506 project on inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please state the name of this bill again. Tuck microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u134	Regarding amendments to article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on Protection of the Population from Infectious Diseases regarding the Admission of Children Without Preventive Vaccines to Children’s Institutions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u135	Understand? I'm betting on the vote on the inclusion in the agenda of draft law No. 256. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:51:29]] For 211 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on the draft Order on the Order of the Day of the Fourth Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Sixth Call. Please be sure. Registration number 3694. [[12:51:59]] For 227 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the question of the appointment of out - of - turn local elections is under review. Reported to the head of the Committee’s subcommittee on State Building and Local Self - Government, Upper Sergey Petrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, the honourable Presidency, the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Rule at its meeting on February 11, 2009, discussed the assignment of out of turn local elections to 18 local authorities: 13 village heads, 1 village heads, and 4 city heads, and 1 council. So the village heads are nine on a personal application, three on a court order; the city heads are two on a personal application, one on a board decision and one on a committee opinion. So, rule number 4055, 4055-1 to 4055-17. All the documents on the committee are considered in our respective office. And taking into account the fact that in accordance with article 85, paragraph 30, of the Constitution of Ukraine, part three of article 14, part two and sixth of article 15 of the Ukrainian Law, “On the election of the deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, village, city heads”, in the event of a permanent suspension of the powers of the village, village, city head, the election shall be appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Sunday, no later than 70 days before the election day. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the appointment of the above-mentioned local elections on Sunday, May 3, 2009, by adopting the relevant decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u137	Any questions for the reporter? None. Have a seat, please. I'm voting on the draft Decree, number 4055, on the appointment of the ostensibly elected Lake Head of the Congregational District of Ternopil. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:55:00]] For 363 Decision taken. I'm voting on the draft Order on the appointment of the successive election of the preparatory head of the Novovodolaz Region of the Kharkiv Region. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:55:32]] For 355 Decision taken. I am voting on the draft Order for the appointment of the successive election of the Kuzemin village head of the district of Ohtyr district of Suma. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:56:02]] For 359 Decision taken. I'm voting on the draft Order on the appointment of the non-artemoval election of the country's new head of the Constantine region of the Donetsk region. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:56:29]] For – 355 Decision taken. I'm voting on the draft Order on Assignment of the Elections of the New Artemian Rural Head. Oh, I'm sorry, we voted. On the appointment of the next election of the hillbilly village head of the Latin region of Winnitsk district, 4055-4. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:57:04]] For – 356 Decision taken. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Order on the appointment of the successive elections of the Ore-Dimmer Rural Head of the High Town District of Kiev, Registration No.4055-5. [[12:57:31]] For – 350 Decision taken. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Order on the appointment of the consecutive election of the Konovo Rural Head of the Khelmenack region of the Chernivtsky region, registration No.4055-6. Please vote. [[12:57:57]] For – 351 Decision taken. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Order on the appointment of the successive election of the nouvelles village head of the High-Paul region of the Hersonian region, registration No.4055-7. [[12:58:25]] For – 359 Decision taken. I'm voting on the draft Order on the appointment of the consecutive election of the Kulpinian village head of the region of Novgorod-Siberia. [[Registration number 4055-8]] [[12:58:55]] For 359 Decision taken. I'm voting on the draft Order on the appointment of the successive elections of the village head of the Bohoduhov district of Kharkiv. [[Registration number 4055-9]] [[12:59:23]] For 361 Decision taken. I'm voting on the draft Decision on the appointment of the election of the village head of the nouvelles region of the Hmelnitsk Region. [[Registration number 4055-10]] [[12:59:50]] For three hundred Decision taken. I am voting on the draft Order on the appointment of the successive elections of the Polish head of the Zvenigrad district of the Cherkas region. [[Registration number 4055-11]] [[13:00:17]] For 368 Decision taken. I'm voting on the draft Order on the appointment of the consecutive election of the Viscovite village head of the Nemirov district of Vinnitsky district. [[Registration number 4055-12]] [[13:00:44]] For 369 Decision taken. I'm voting on the draft Order on the appointment of the successive election of the village head of the Orikh district of Zaporozhye. [[Registration number 4055-13]] Please vote. [[13:01:12]] For 367 I put to the vote a draft decree on the appointment of the consecutive election of the Lightwater City Council and the light - water city head. We've been through this before. There's a denial of national MPs. Please write down the reasons for the vote. Cord Vitaly Terentiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u138	Please pass the word to Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u139	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues, I understand very well that the representatives of the Party of Regions will not vote in favour of this decision, because a member of their faction has a very large business interest, they will not vote. [[I can even call it Mr. Eden.]] I suggest. I understand that there is, say, some detonation in the Communist faction in the view that there may not be a need to re-elect the city council. Because of my proposal, Alexander Volodymyrovich, I suggest we put it on the ground now, and then we can remove the election of the deputies during this second vote of ours. But, dear colleagues, a huge city -- below 80,000 people -- all in dirt, I've been elected a national deputy twice, there's no head just because there's a faction that has certain skin interests. I'm asking everyone, besides the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u140	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u141	I'm asking everyone to just vote. I understand, once again, that the Party of Regions will not give votes, but they are, these voices, here. Let us vote that the city has its own head.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u142	Schmellow Svetlana Alexandrovna
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u143	Martiniuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u144	Please, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u145	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, according to a large account, really, this is Alexander Volodymyrovich's right that we have repeatedly put this question to a vote. Although this session was probably not yet convened, this session was not held. I think it's worth listening to what Yavorowski said here, only I'm proposing not as a basis or as a whole, but just to vote on the mayor's election so that it doesn't go to the local council elections. If this is how it's going to be done -- just about the mayor's election, we're willing to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u146	Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u147	I'd like you to pass it on to the People's Deputy, Laryne.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, we are probably the fifth or the tenth time we have considered this issue. What's the problem? Which, first, is an illegal decision proposed by the committee on the election of the deputies of the City Council of Svetłovodska, which has no legal basis at all under this draft decision. According to the election of the city mayor, there is a response from Omelchenk, who did not announce from this rostrum that the CTC replied to Omelchenko that “there is no legal basis for the appointment by the Central Electoral Commission of the re-election of the city’s head”. The re-election of the Lightwater City Head was announced on 18 May 2008. But Shapowala replied: “However, the elections were not held because of their lack of financial security.” I know our colleagues are worried about the Ternopolsk district that they don't have the money to do it, and they have the money in Svetlovodsk. And the mayor's election is in a year, so there's no point in having them now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u149	National MP Sobolev. Bondar, please, National Deputy. Olga Borisovna Bondar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u150	National Deputy Olga Bondar, First Deputy to the Committee on State Building, Local Self - Government. I want to be more or less accurate about this. The matter is that the Supreme Council appointed the elections, but the local authorities did not allocate money for the elections. And now we're going to be setting a precedent if we're going to allow such disdain as to disrespect the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I fully support Mr. Yavorowski in the question that such a city cannot be without a mayor. It is imperative that the mayor’s election be held, that the council election be discussed, but leaving people without a leader is not the responsibility I will take.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u151	Demyanchuk Victoria Alexandrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u152	Indeed, this question has long been raised quite a bit, with regard to the Lighthouse City Council and the election of heads, I would like to emphasize that we will, that we will vote if the ruling, as Adam Ivanovich said, applies only to the election of the City Council. So the city council is working, the deputy corps, and there's no question about taking over the city council. So we only vote for the head of the Lightwater City Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u153	Kolesniki Dmitry Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u154	Please give the floor to my colleague, Laryna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u155	Once again, I would like to reiterate to my colleagues that the election of the territorial commission was scheduled for 18 May last year because of the lack of funding in the city budget, no money was allocated for the elections. And to take money away from the social sphere today, about what our government cares about and our favorite faction, BUIT, I ask that we do not take those steps today. The election of a city head can take place in a year and they will be held by law, and the election to local councils, I say again, is an illegal decision by the committee at all. And the Supreme Council cannot support these decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u156	The discussion is over. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a draft decree on the appointment of vice-presidents of the council of light and light-water city, another draft decision not submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it has not been considered by the committee and is not recommended for adoption, of course, as one that is simply absent. [[Number 4055-14]] So I can only put to the vote a draft decree of 4055-14. Please identify yourself. [[13:08:36]] For 212 The decision is not taken. I want to explain to those who wanted us to vote on the basis and then on the whole. The issue is not of a normative nature, we cannot vote in this way. If there is a draft decision against the meaning of the city's head, it will take a vote like any other, just as it will be a draft decision on the election by the council, it will also vote separately. Just follow the parliamentary procedure set out in the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, there are no further problems. I put to the vote the draft Order on the appointment of the successive elections of the city’s head of the city of Hertz in the region of Cherniewec. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:09:38]] For 351 Decision taken. I am voting on the draft Order on the appointment of the successive election of the Percinian City Head of the Percin district of Zakarpat. [[No. 4055-16]] [[13:10:06]] For 348 Decision taken. I'm voting on the draft Order for the appointment of the next election of the city's city chief, Izum Kharkiv district. [[Registration No. 4055-17]] Please vote. [[13:10:34]] For 243 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, now according to the schedule of today's session, we need to consider a draft law amending chapter two of the Ukrainian Law on Change in Criminal and Criminal Procedure Codes on the use of a child for begging. This project is to be included in the agenda of the day session, because it was not included in the agenda of the last session, and after consideration of the decision-making process. I put to the vote the question of the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending chapter two of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Criminal and Procedural Codes. [[Registration number 4038]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:11:40]] For 248 Decision taken. The draft law introduced by the President of Ukraine on the amendment of Chapter II of the Ukrainian Act on the amendment of the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Codes on the use of a child for begging is being announced for consideration. Reported: Justice Minister Oneichuk Mikola Vasilovich. Short-term procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u157	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! On January 15, this year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the necessary and timely Act on the Strengthening of Criminal Responsibility. [[on the motivation of children to beggar]] However, it happened that in the transitional provisions of this law the term of validity was given on January 1, but article 58 of the Constitution prohibits and prevents the giving back of the law when it establishes responsibility. He allows reverse force when responsibility is reversed or softened, but in the matter that I have noted, the standard of the Constitution is imperative. In this regard, in order for this law to take effect and work, it is also proposed that it be specified in the transitional provisions of the law that it takes effect from the date of its publication, as provided for in article 94 of the Constitution of Ukraine. I would like to support in particular, personally, the faction of the Party of the Regions, because it's a law that you've already had a positive choice about, and it's only about removing some of the inadequacies that have arisen. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u158	Thank you, Mikola Vasilovich! Have a seat, please. I invite you to report to Victor Dmitrovic Schwetz, head of the Committee on Legislative Security and Law Protection.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u159	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! I fully agree with the motivation that the Minister of Justice has given you right now, but I would like to remind you of just one detail. According to part five of article 94 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the law takes effect not earlier than the day of its publication, that is, that this law could have been published and all of the commissions that Mikola Vasilovich was talking about would have had no place. But in view of the fact that the President of Ukraine introduced this law as an urgent matter, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Legislative Security and Law Protection at its meeting has considered this issue and recommends that the Supreme Council approve this law in its first reading on the basis and as a whole as a law. We in the committee believe that the taking of effect of this law will be an important criminal and legal guarantee for the protection of the rights of young children. I ask you, fellow members of the national parliament, to uphold this law to allow it to become a legitimate force and enter into force. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u160	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss? Let's sign up. National MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u161	Dear colleagues! I think now that we've got this covered, and yet we're going to support this law, we're going to accept it, and it's going to become effective. But I want to focus on the fact that more than once have been heard in this Hall of the Supreme Council. It's an incredibly low level, just a catastrophicly low level of legal protection for the President! Let the President take care of himself. And let the positions that have already been heard from the Committee of the Supreme Council in this rostrum begin to be understood. In fact, the President postponed the validity of this law by making his proposals, essentially applying the veto, on a formal basis, disregarding a standard that would automatically take effect. If he had signed this law as required by the Constitution, the law would have worked, not since January 1, 2009, but since its publication. Unfortunately, lawyers with permission, so to speak, have led the President to believe that the law he needed to act to save his children from their unfortunate exploitation is still not working. But we don't have another way out of this, now instead of playing a game that's worse, today we have to correct actually a partial minor mistake of our own, partly a very serious error of the president's lawyers. And I hope that this law will come into force today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u162	National MP Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u163	Oleg Lasko, “Julia Timoshenko” Block. It is quite obvious that the bill should be voted on. And there must be responsibility for for forcing children, young children, into begging. And it's a great surprise that the members of the opposition faction of the Party of the Regions did not vote in favour of the inclusion and consideration of this bill. Obviously, as in the election of the mayor of the Lightwater region of Kirovograd, there are people in the opposition faction who are obviously interested in not reducing the amount of begging but increasing. Because, in fact, children. We're going with you to the Supreme Council, there's a kid on every corner asking for money, and then the money she's carrying that money to. Grown - up uncles force these children to beg, and they have no responsibility. And then these kids grow up and turn into, you know, what. So we hope that all the MPs will support this bill, vote. And those who force children to beg will be held accountable. Perhaps there will be fewer broken families, unhappy fates, broken children’s lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u164	National Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u165	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear friends! In fact, this law can be called the elimination of headship. The liquidation of the Chamber of Deputies, which was signed on January 1st, and of the staff of the President's Secretariat, who had also not been informed that the Constitution was clearly written, and there was no need to adopt a completely new law, because part 5 of article 94 states that it takes effect 10 days from the date of official publication, unless otherwise provided by the law itself, but not before the day of its publication. Thus, as the Constitutional Court has already confirmed, this decision of February 9, 99, in the case of retroactive action at the time of laws and other legal instruments, could absolutely not have been enacted. I should have signed it to the President. But why did I say it was about our headstrongness. Because we let this thing go and we have to say it, we have to admit it. But it is a pleasure to pass the law separately and not to sign it, and it is a joy for thousands of people today to allow for the continuation of criminal acts in relation to babies to continue. I'm talking to Mr. Pukshin, get away from the question of listening to MPs, and here, see if you can start learning the material part of the rights. And then you'll be perfectly normal, according to the law. Once it's been removed, wasted time, let's take it. But we will ask the chairman of the session and the Head of the Supreme Council to make an urgent obligation to sign this law. And have it published tomorrow. Because it's been gone for two months. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u166	Replica from the Party of Regions, Herman Hanna Mikolayevna
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u167	Regarding the charges against the Yulia Block of Timoshenko that the Party of Regions does not want to vote in favour of this bill. You know, the people say "Timoshenko Street" if he doesn't lie, he won't breathe. A party of regions will vote in favour of this bill. And we ask you to stop insinuating against our political power.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u168	The discussion is over. I am voting on the draft Act amending chapter two of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine on the use of a child for begging, chapter 4038, as a basis. Please vote. [[13:21:23]] For 372 Decision taken. The committee proposes to adopt this bill as a whole. Is there a denial? There's no objection. I am voting on the adoption of the entire draft Law amending chapter two of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine, registration number 4038. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:22:01]] For 362 Decision taken. The law has been passed. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on anti-trafficking]] Registration number 3428. National deputy of Ukraine, Grecenko Anatoly Stepanovich, reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u169	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! When the matter was considered on a committee of profile, one of the members of the Committee, a member of the Party of the Regions, called it anti-crisis. I've never seen him like that. But from this point of view, he is important. What's the point? Right now, the country is in crisis, and it's probably in crisis for a long time. But in Russian for someone's war, for someone's mother's mother. And that's what we see in Nazbank's actions, where over 40 billion went into the pipe. We're going to see in the carols in the courts, we're going to see in the raid and so on. I understand very well that bribery is a systemic phenomenon that, starting with parenting, school, and through life and many important influences. But under any circumstances, there's a question of responsibility. The essence of this project. For all government officials and the local level, because there are land issues, and the central level, if you grabbed a hand, when you took a bribe equivalent of $10,000, and you're more likely to take a severe measure -- 15 years without the right to amnesty with the confiscation of property. If the prosecutor did the same thing, the investigator and the judge were sentenced to life imprisonment. There was a question as to whether life imprisonment was worth $10,000 worth of bribes, if it was the same as murder. I think it's hard, but it's fair. Because when one person is killed is one, it's a disaster, and it's a responsibility, and when they kill a belief in a law in tens of millions, when they can't protect themselves from either a poor person or a rich person in a court of law and when a judge or an investigator decides, or a prosecutor of the same killer is taken away from the responsibility, and they're planting a person who isn't guilty, or they're asking questions for the benefit of someone who has brought money and the value of those questions to the state millions, hundreds of millions, even billions, is to be answered. And if some Christmas judges have slaughtered over a million and we're assigning them for life, I'm sorry, let them sit in life. Please support in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u170	Thank you. Sit down, Anatoly Stepanovich. No questions asked, we have a reduced procedure. The report is headed by the Committee on the Law Enforcement of Sweden, Victor Dmitrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u171	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Law Enforcement Law Enforcement considered at its meeting the Bill of Amendments to certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 3428, submitted by the National MP. [[on anti-trafficking]] He should say that the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council believes that the first reading of the bill makes it advisable for the subject to return the right of the legislative initiative to work. A committee to prepare the matter for session. At his meeting, he received the conclusions of many scientific institutions, educational institutions, ministries, departments. I should say frankly that the position has split, some support the bill, and others categorically reject it. At the same time, the committee believes that the issue of increasing liability for bribery is correct and, despite the substantial comments made at the committee meeting and by scientists, we, the committee members, supported the proposal of one of the members of our committee on the recommendation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt this bill in the first reading. We think it's time for words about fighting corruption to move on to concrete action. The Bill of the People’s Deputy Griesenka is not a revolutionary in this sense, but it is rather original in highlighting the issue of liability for bribery. Therefore, honourable members of the people, the committee recommends that the Supreme Council adopt this bill in the first reading, the committee closest.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u172	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u173	He's being processed and, I'm sure the Supreme Council will adopt this bill and he'll be a reliable guarantee in the fight against corruption in our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u174	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Let's sign up for a discussion. Herman Hanna Mikolayevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u175	The Party of Regions supports this bill in its first reading, because we believe that the positions expressed in it to strengthen the fight against corruption are timely and meet the needs of both society and the entire Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u176	Quiet Paul Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u177	Please pass the word to Yavorov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u178	Vladimir Yavorowski, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, once in the Javan region of Lviv, it was my district, I led the election-coming old grandmother, she had a problem with coal for winter. Well, there was a time when I decided that question, and when I finished taking the voters, I started rolling all the papers that I had on the table, and I'm looking at the envelope. An envelope without a signature. I'm unfolding, and there's five bracelets. She's the one who paid the people's deputy for taking her in, paid the bribe in Lviv. I understand you're crying because it's a very small bribe. I understand that. I'm the same way. But this fact is very eloquent. Our society in bribery is so demoralized today that a man of little means of wealth is absolutely not convinced that he can handle any matter with any official. It's just a total thing today, which has, well, so demoralized our Ukrainian people. Some may feel that this bill of our colleague Grizzenka is too harsh, perhaps even too cruel. And there is eternal imprisonment there, and the fact that man is no longer entitled to hold office as responsible, and so on, and is not even subject to amnesty. I'm convinced that only the harsh methods that are laid down in this bill will we be able to even this situation up a little bit. Well, at least some part will just-just be afraid. Because of this, I think this bill is very timely. And I am grateful to Grizzenck for his courage to put such an ideology into this bill, such a great, severe punishment for bribery. The Yulia Tymoshenko Block will give everyone, even more, the votes we have for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u179	Sebravsky Paul Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u180	I don't think anyone would mind stepping up the fight against corruption. This is a phenomenon that is now almost legal in the state, and certainly must be punished in the most cruel way. However, it is surprising. $10,000 is an investigator, a prosecutor, forever. Minister, Governor, Prime Minister and so on for millions, hundreds of millions, 10-15 years. And I'm sorry why, today, the influences, including on society, are equally demoralizing, are no less the ones that cause social turmoil and destroy all the general principles of statehood. And high - ranking workers should be punished no less cruelly than the same investigator, as the same prosecutor, as the same judge. I personally do not deny the increase and the harshest increase in the fight against corruption. However, I'm against double approaches, against double standards. The people they choose, the people who take their seats, they take thousands of acres of forest land, they take in the Brovarsky region for millions, tens of millions take bribes, they sit 10-15 years, and the prosecutor and the judge will stay forever. I think if we were to compare the same approach, that would be logic and philosophy right. Because there are no differences between exactly the law enforcement authorities and the people who are present in the executive branch. And if all of this were to be balanced, all of these questions would certainly be rational. And yet I would like to point out that there is the Anti-Corruption Act in Parliament today, and there is also increased responsibility for corruption. I think this needs to be addressed in a complex way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u181	We have a brief discussion. There's a faction, and there's one person coming out of the faction. The discussion is over. I am voting on the basis of draft Act No. 3428 amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on anti-trafficking]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:33:23]] For 372 Decision taken. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the promotion of production and the use of biological fuels is being announced for consideration. Reports Pashinski Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u182	Good day, dear chairman, good day, dear colleagues! Well, I'm not going to talk about the relevance of the bill. In recent times, considering the rise in energy prices, taking into account the characteristics of our nation, so many politicians have pointed out that the production of biological fuels is extremely relevant for our nation. Our committee over the past three years has carried out enormous work, organized circulars with scientists, organized working groups with representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, executive authorities, the Ministry of Finance, tax administration. During the discussion, it was decided not to make a separate bill but to amend and supplement existing legislation. This will make it possible to make practical progress in the production and distribution of biological fuels. The bill provides for more detailing species, biofuels, and specific methods to stimulate production, tax burden on the production of biological fuels, and many other technical details that I believe can fuel the development of such an important sector in our country. Today we already have successful precedents for the implementation of this kind of activity in the economy of Ukraine, but I am absolutely convinced, given the energy crisis, that this law will give significant impetus to the production and implementation of these programs. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Supreme Council of this call has already taken a significant step towards alternative forms of energy, and we have adopted the Land Tariff Act. And I hope that we will now support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u183	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u184	The development of such an important segment of our farms as the production of alternative fuels.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u185	Have a seat, please. Let's sign up for a discussion. Zarubinsky National MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u186	Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues! I think that this bill needs to be considered in the general context of legislation that is the subject of addressing issues and stimulating issues that have contributed to the development of alternative energy. We've already done something about it, you know, we voted in favour of the Green Tariff Act, so we called it. But it is clear that one law does not cover everything. And the fact that the authors of the legislative initiative, and in particular the colleague who reported it just came up with other segments that could ensure the development of alternative energy, is certainly a positive one. I read an explanatory note in this bill, and I think that as a result of just two minutes of giving the subject of the legislative initiative, there is no positive light, and I will allow them to be quoted as an explanatory note. This is a reduction in the state's dependence on energy imports. It's an increase in the state's energy security. It is very important that there has not been a marked development and stability in the agricultural complex of Ukraine, the creation of new jobs, and the increase in revenue for budgets, that is to say, an improvement in the environmental situation. I think that in preparing for the second reading, those individual sins or editorial moments that are obviously not optimally written and that indicate, including the Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council, can be removed. And in general, I think the idea is absolutely correct, the idea is absolutely correct, and these are the issues that the whole Supreme Council can deal with, regardless of political sympathy or antipathy. We're going to vote for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u187	Ribuk Sergey Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u188	Honorable National MPs, in their own time, 15 years ago, Ukraine pioneered in a legislative base regarding the use of alternative species and energy sources. It's been 17 years, we have three laws, but there's less than one percent left with renewed energy sources. Europe and America already have between 40 and 50 percent, depending on which countries, and today in Europe 19 percent of the sources of renewable energy are potable weights, and nuclear energy is only 17 percent. Of course, this bill is quite complementary to the previous three, but there are many general and many contradictions. But I would support it with at least one more step to meet, because when 12 percent of Europe's sown area structure is rape, we're in Polissa, in the north, where they grow in shrubs and tails, if they were to sow with rape, and that goes, we'd have 9 percent, and that's 9 million tons. 9 million tons of rape, that's 3.5 million tons of biodepleted fuel or a hundred percent need of all agriculture. Plus one tonne of seed is five tons of straw, 45 million tons of straw is a pithoma of the fourth part of all the mines of our country. No one else needs to be agitated. Let's not have any politics here, we'll help. But what does this law not receive? The one who doesn't have material, state, real support. So let's think about the second reading right over here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u189	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u190	Yuri Carmazin "Our Ukrainian-National Self-Defense Party". Dear National Deputies! First of all, let me thank Hashinski, Oliynik, Marmazov, Shagu, Cherpika for introducing this law, first. [[That's the whole list.]] Second, we're late for this law. And I would say so, this law can be applied to anti-crisis, first. And secondly, to say up to Europe, because long ago in Europe all of this is being applied. And it's applied to the fact that renewable sources are constantly being stimulated by the state. I would like to see that we do not have the unfortunate mistakes that occurred when we passed the previous bill, which the President proposed that we change from "January 1st" to "the date of adoption of the law". And so that we can take notes around the text of the law where we write in the One Customs Tariff Act "technique, equipment, equipment that is not produced in Ukraine and imported from "January 1st" in order to write: "from the time of the Act." And then the term “in another law”, in the Business Income Taxation Act, also, these terms to clean up, cleared the bill. In general, I would like and would like the Committee on Budget Affairs to consider this bill further. And if you want to know, we need to take the standard. And vote today for a brief consideration of this bill. This bill needs the state right now. Why? Because it will depend on agricultural producers to produce this product or not. How will their plans be planned? It will not be too late to sow what can be sown that will be used to produce these biological fuels. So I'd like to ask you to adopt the law first, and secondly, I'd like you to shorten the deadline for its consideration on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u191	The discussion is over. I am voting on the basis of the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the promotion of production and the use of biological fuels. Registration number 1114. Please be sure. [[13:44:06]] For 343 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law is being announced for consideration. We're looking at all of the short-term issues. Uh, shortening the deadline for preparation for second reading? Please. I think we've already had proof that when we vote on this, we're looking at it later than usual. Please, I'm putting to the vote the proposal to double the deadline for preparing for the second reading of the draft law. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:44:59]] For 236 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads is being announced. [[on the characteristics of the municipal head election order]] Reporting by Ukrainian national deputy Kaskov Vladislav Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u192	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, Your Honor Chairman! Ukraine's draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Village, Urban Heads, registration No. 1060, introduced by the Group of Deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, members of the Committee on Government Administration and Local Self-Government. [[on the characteristics of the election of city heads and the re-voting of local elections]] Ukraine’s current law provides for the selection of rural, rural, and urban heads according to a major system of relative majority. The candidates selected are the candidates who received a relative majority of the votes in the elections and the number of voters who took part in the vote. Meanwhile, an analysis of the experience of European countries shows that such an electoral system exists in only a few European countries. In Italy, in particular, the majority of mayors in municipalities with up to 15,000 voters are elected by the majority system. In addition to Italy, this system is practiced only in Cyprus and Hungary. In most other European countries, local heads are chosen by the majority or local councils. This applies to the vast majority of all European countries. The main argument in favour of the introduction of a majority majority majority majority majority majority majority majority majority majority majority majority majority majority majority majority majority majority majority electorate. And you know that there are cases in Ukraine where city heads have chosen 11 percent of the votes. And these cases are not alone. In general, up to 20 percent of voters throughout Ukraine are severely elected. Of course, this issue had a political context, especially the days before the elections in Kiev were held by the city’s heads. And in relation to this political context.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u193	Finish up, please. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u194	I'm short. It was postponed, but today it has lost that political color, and I believe that today is more than ever a good time to give. change this practice because it allows the territorial communities at last to identify very clearly with those who will lead their economy and create conditions for the vitality of the territorial communities. The main scientific and expert office is proposing to support the bill in the first reading. The Supreme Council Committee on Legal Policy has no comments on the relevance of the project. And the Committee of the Supreme Council on State Building and Local Self-Government proposes to support this bill in the first reading as well as on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u195	Have a seat, please. Correspondence from the Committee of Jury Bogdanovich Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u196	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the committee took this bill very seriously, because for the first time, we were considering a group of drafts back in January last year, more than a year ago, we recommended that the authors reconcile their positions and replace the harmonized bill that they did. And I would like to draw your attention to the fact that on March 18, the committee made a decision on this bill. The committee can only express regret over the fact that the bill has waited so long for its turn to be considered in the session room. The committee's decision on this bill, I'd say, is more mature than mature. Then, in the spring, the committee proposed the adoption of a bill as a whole. I think that we are aware today of the unrealisticity of this proposal, especially that after that two more bills have been introduced that can't be considered as alternatives, but they do relate to the same issue. This is Bill 2270-3, People's Deputy Catherinechuk and Bill 3051, People's Deputy Kulikov. We have studied these bills carefully in the subcommittee, and we have come to the conclusion that certain positions should be taken into account when preparing this bill for the second reading. So I'm announcing that on March 18th, the committee proposed a bill as a whole, but my personal position, I think most people will agree that it's worth looking closely at before the second reading. Please support him.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u197	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss? Yes. Let's sign up, please. Herman Hanna Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u198	Please pass the word to Alexander Lavrinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u199	Thank you for giving me your word. Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, we all understand how important it is today to make changes in the election of city heads. We have many examples, each in the areas that are being cared for, and also in the city of Kiev, when we see how important it is for most citizens to be able to speak for or against any candidate. So they're going to help us make the changes that we're going to vote for today. There are good suggestions in alternative bills. But I think when we support this bill, the second reading will take into account the ideas of those that are set up in alternatives, and it will come out, really, a good bill that will help communities to have decent measures that are worthy of the heads of communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u201	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u202	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Honourable national MPs, obviously, if we had considered this bill in March last year, obviously would not have had aliens from space in Kiev, and obviously would not have had the devastating effects that are now in Kiev and elsewhere. In particular, I would like to say that either we should apply some general and international democratic principles, or we should say that only in part we are using these principles, including international acts that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has given consent to when ratifying. That's what I'm talking about before the project proposes the introduction of an electoral system of absolute majority only for the electorate of the city's heads. So it's the exact same system on rural and rural heads. Why? We have different approaches. I'm sorry that we haven't seen the bills that were reported to the committee. They're not alternatives. They're actually the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones They're just filed later on. I don't know how we'll steer when we look at them. I am convinced that, according to the spirit of the Constitution, the legal nature of the positions of rural, rural, urban heads is absolutely, absolutely identical and identical. And so, obviously, on our second reading, we're going to have to make changes to this bill. But it will have to be taken as a basis. Because otherwise, what's going on in Kiev today will continue when you think about introducing paid medicine, when you think about making a patient's anatomical ward in hospitals, and 19 of them in Kiev, turn into a utility company, and see an organ transplant. Obviously, it's never like this anywhere.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u203	Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u204	Dear colleagues! I'd like a general ideology here, just as my colleague Yuri Carmazin spoke, to support. I think we didn't act very strategically when we wanted to solve the problem in one city. It's a general principle that's laid down here. Moreover, I am in solidarity with the approach that, apparently today, the status of some rural councils and rural heads, the settlement time in the Kyiv region is more significant than the city's head in another area. The concept of local self-government is that the basic level of local self-government is the village, the village, the city, and I would think that the general principle must extend to these territorial communities. So I think it would be right to debate this between the first and the second readings and maybe to extend this procedure of selecting local leaders, local communities and village and village leaders. And the second position is extremely important to consider is that today this retraining of urban heads has begun throughout Ukraine. Because everyone understands that today we can build on the support of a social group. And so we have the mayor of grandmas, there's the mayor of grandpas, there's the mayor of taxi drivers. If the city’s head is based on one social group and is constantly working on it, it can be a permanent city head in today’s system. But we choose the city heads of the territorial community, not one social group. Therefore, it is clear that the bill should be voted on. And once again, I insist that it's obvious that between the first and second readings to go back to the discussion about the possibility of spreading this norm and choosing rural and rural heads.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, the problem has many aspects. And what I want to say is, in order to think through the information that you and I have already adopted in the session hall over a thousand, well over a thousand, the decision to re-election of rural, rural, urban heads. This is also a question that needs to be addressed both in the budgetary sense and in the sense of the responsibility of those who choose the population. Obviously, the concept of local self-government and the implementation of the executive power of representative bodies needs attention in order for us to carry out a thorough analysis and discussion in order for Ukraine to have effective working local self-government, not wasteful and inefficient, which we unfortunately have today. I am voting on the basis of draft Law 1060 on the election of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, rural, urban heads. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:57:37]] For 218. The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko" – 146, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 54, communists – 0, "Club of Lithuania" – 18. A draft Law on the Territorial Organization of Elections and Referendums in Ukraine, registration number 2630, is being announced for consideration. People's MPs, Timoshenko's Yulia Block, are asking to return to the question that they have not been able to secure the work of the "Council" electronic system based on the voice of electronic cards. This is not provided for by the Rules, but the precedents that were in the Supreme Council allowed it to do so. Please, I'm voting for a return to this issue. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:59:00]] For 224 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. Dear colleagues, since the next draft law is interconnected, I continue for 15 minutes in the morning and announce draft Law No. 2630 on the organization of elections and referendums in Ukraine. Reported by the Ukrainian national deputy Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u206	Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by a bill developed by a working group to develop drafts of the Ukrainian Electoral Code, which is known to work in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We ask that we consider this bill, which is no doubt to become part of the Electoral Code, since it refers to one particular problem that needs to be solved in advance. This is about the formation of a network of permanent polling stations and, apparently, the associated permanent territorial districts in the constituencies. This problem is acute because, according to the law in force today, the branches are formed during the electoral process of filing local self - government by district election committees. The rapid electoral process does not allow much attention to be paid to this. And so very often we have inequitable formations of these areas, they include too many elections, they have inappropriate voting rooms and so on. There are repeated complaints, including court cases, about what is wrongly formed area, not with such a building. In order to avoid this problem, we have proposed this bill. Now it's about accepting it in the first reading, we're not asking for any more. Obviously, when it needs to become effective, how it can be implemented, this is a question that needs to be reconciled, including with the Central Election Commission, and it needs to be reconciled in a calendar with the election of the nearest ones to be foreseen. However, I would like to point out that there is a wrong conclusion from the Ministry of Finance, which says that it takes a lot of money. Regrettably, it is based on the mistaken assumption that permanent polling stations also provide for permanent district election committees. That's not true. And it's not about creating permanent district election committees in any way, so.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u207	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u208	The bill does not really need expenditure from Ukraine’s State Budget. I ask you, colleagues, to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u209	A report from the committee. Upstairs Sergei Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u210	Dear Chief, distinguished MPs! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government, commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on the Territorial Organization of Elections and Referendums in Ukraine at its meeting on September 3, 2008. [[Registration number 2630]] The main task of the bill is to create legal preconditions for the creation of a permanent network of territorial constituencies, constituencies and territorial constituencies, provided for by the Ukrainian Act on the State Register of Voters. We have considered very carefully, the committee, and the committee is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis for the first reading. We should say about the funds, Yuri Bogdanovich has already said. I'm going to say another sentence literally. Considering that we have the State budget allocated for the presidential elections this year, and the presidential elections also provide for the establishment of territorial constituencies and constituencies, I think that this procedure can be initiated immediately after the adoption of this bill in accordance with the calendar plan that will be approved in connection with the election of the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u211	Is there a need to discuss? Let's sign up for a discussion. People's deputy Beales, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u212	The word to the National Deputy of Samolik.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u213	Please, Catherine Seminal.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u214	Thank you very much, Valery Ananiyovich. Dear colleagues, I particularly wish to address the faction of the “Regions”. This law is vital to our support. He is truly affected by our such, very long - term experience. Let me give you an example. In my Hersonian, one district suddenly disappeared. Well, it's understandable why one district disappeared: because the wrong political power was winning, and this district was taken to the Zakarpatsk region, wherever you might think. It was at Kuchma's. Clearly, who was the head of the President's administration. This is the first time. Secondly, what is involved in creating the necessary conditions for the commission to work. One election is the center, for example, in Novotroitsk, where 40,000 people live. The next election is to be carried to Ivanovka, and the next one is to be moved to the center. And so, can you create normal conditions for the commission to work so that voters can work properly? I would also like to turn to you, Your Honourable “Regions”. Don't think. You know, politics is a very sneering thing: today it's smiling at you, and tomorrow it's gonna be such a wild ostrich that you'll regret not voting for this bill. I think it'll be absolutely right when the fixed circuits are fixed when the centers are permanently fixed. This will simply give us the order that we want with you, and the voter list, the voter register, and the stability of this particular job. I urge everyone to vote in favour of this extremely necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u215	Karpuk Vladimir Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u216	Vladimir Karpuk, group “For Ukraine”. Please give the word to Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u217	Please, National Deputy Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u218	Thank you very much, Vladimir Grigorovich. Dear colleagues, in fact, we now have a wonderful opportunity to make, I would say, even a historic decision for the Ukrainian Parliament. I think all the political forces are sincere in their desire to write in their electoral programs about the need for an electoral code in Ukraine. This welcomes the idea in the air for more than half a decade and, in fact, today's decision is a small first step towards finally unifying the election and referendum system in Ukraine. In fact, maybe we should go this way, by little victories, little steps, because it's extremely difficult to implement such a unified, electoral mechanism that would have everyone. This is the problem that prompted the Ukrainian state to appear, you know, at the top of the world record scores, for example, in electoral legislation. Because we have every election campaign in Ukraine under a new law. And as a person who worked for the Central Electoral Commission, I'll tell you that in election campaigns, we often change laws, some of which the Central Election Commission will learn after the law is published. So, unfortunately, we're a little late, but still, thank God we're back to this problem. I'm going to tell you that the idea of territorial constituencies is not new, and in this law, in fact, it's just evolving. We passed a law on voter registration, where it was first imposed on the possibility of initiating such an electoral institution. And now for the implementation of this law, we're actually doing a great deal. If we now adopt this law, perhaps today in the first reading, for the future as a whole, it will be much easier for us to work on all the other electoral laws. Moreover, we already know exactly what concept should be put into their territorial foundation. And what Mrs. Samuel said today is going to be taken off at exactly the same time, once and for all, because that is the very question that is, I would say so, quite controversial.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-17-m0.u219	The discussion is concluded, I am voting on the adoption of the draft law on the territorial organization of elections and referendums in Ukraine, registration number 2630. I'd like to make up my mind. [[2:08:31]] For 252 Decision taken. At this morning's plenary session, I declare closed, at 4:00 p.m. the evening session will begin.
