ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[Registration of Ukrainian National Deputies]] [[16:00:47]] They registered cards in the 428 National Deputies Sessional Hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, we are continuing our consideration of the draft bills prepared for the second reading. The draft Law on Supplementing Article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on the Principles of National Regulatory Policy in the Field of Economic Activity is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 2323]] The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Kseniya Mikhailn Leapina. Xenia Mikhailvna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u2	My fellow Members, your point of view is proposed for the second reading of a bill prepared by the Committee that amends an article of the Ukrainian Law on the Principles of National Regulatory Policy, which is the case with the Act on the Principles of National Regulatory Policy and the Law on the Exchange of Securities and Stock Markets. And we're here to list the regulatory acts of certain powers of the State Commission from securities. So we're saying that the acts are excluded and the parts remain regulated. And these are actually those responsibilities that are considered regulatory. Two comments are taken into account. One comment is rejected. Actually, there were only three comments.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u3	Respectful colleagues, such as reasoning, warnings, and suggestions. Corrections are included. I put to the vote, please note, the proposal of the Second reading Committee and, as a whole, the bill of the Act supplementing article three of the Ukrainian Law on the Principles of National Regulatory Policy in the Field of Economic Activity, registration number 2323. Please vote. [[16:03:16]] For 178. The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a motion to re-read the Bill's draft registration number 2323. [[16:03:40]] For-195 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 2391. [[on the principles of public policy in the field of licensing]] The reporter is Kseniya Mikhailna Lapina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u4	The bill introduces a number of changes to the Licensing Act and brings the principles of licensing into line. Well, here came a number of comments, some of them included, some of them rejected. Well, I'm sure they do if they insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u5	Okay. Dear colleagues, the amendment of the second National MP, Zosuli, has been rejected. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Natalie's amendment to Queen's, fifth. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Yeah, Yuri Carmazin's amendment, 15th. Don't insist. 18th, Carmazine. Don't insist. 21st and 22nd Carmazine. Don't insist. 23rd, 24th and 25th repairs to Karmazin. Don't insist. Xenia Lapina and the National Deputy of Zosula, 28th and 29th. Are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u6	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u7	Don't insist. All other amendments are included. Dear colleagues, the committee proposes to adopt in the second reading and in general as a bill of the bill amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the principles of public policy in the field of licensing]] [[Registration number 2391]] I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[16:05:48]] For 293 The law is passed. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to promote entrepreneurship of 9 pp. 459. 4581). The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship. Who will report from the committee? The thing is, they're working right now. work on the law around which differences have arisen. Then why don't you let us, dear fellows, and we'll go with the amendments? Could you, Xenia Mikhailevna, be? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u8	In fact, the law changes a number of Ukrainian laws to promote entrepreneurial activity. A series of amendments came in. So let's do the negatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u9	First amendment, Levcun. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. 3rd and 4th Amendment, Valery Pisarenko. No, it's not. Levcun, 6th repair. No, it's not. Pisarenko and Pilipenko, 7th and 8th Amendment. No, it's not. Lapina, Zosula, Prestenka. 9th, 10th, 11th.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u10	I insist, dear colleagues. It's a very important question, it's a question of supporting our grapes sector. We don't have the money to grant the grant, but we can with.. improve the regulatory climate, especially offering retail trade only in natural wines, i.e. without adding alcohol, do without getting a license for retail trade. This does not reduce the number of licenses because they went to a complex of alcoholic beverages, but it potentially provides relief and improvement for the circulation of exclusively natural wines without adding alcohol. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u11	Dear colleagues, I will read it, please, and put it to the vote. “ To complement part six of the meaning of the second article: “The friendly trade in table wines, dry, semi-dry, semi-solid and non-alcoholic beverages is carried out by subjects who manage all forms of property without a licence for retail trade. I put to the vote this amendment, please vote. [[16:08:40]] For-154 Correction not supported. Please, Xenia Mikhailvna, let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u12	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u13	Please, Kseniya Mikhailna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u14	Well, the next rejected amendment is my 14th. This applies again to the introduction of paragraph 8 of that article, which lists the types of licensing. Here it is suggested that a different form of licensing, such as the manufacture of industrial products made of precious metals, precious stones, precious organogeneic stones, and so forth. In fact, it's just out of licensing, and I'm proposing that we print out, and actually they're in very difficult shape today: their production today is simply not in demand, and they're paying a pretty expensive license. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u15	Dear colleagues, amendment 14 of Kseniya Lapina is put to the vote. Please be supportive. How? That's what the amendment said. [[16:10:24]] For-146 Correction not supported. The next 16th amendment, the Levcun doesn't insist. 17th, 18th, Pisarenko, Filipenko. And the 19th, the 20th, Pisarenko, Pilipenko. Are they insisting? No, no, no, no. 22nd, 23rd? Neither did I. 27th, 28th - Pisarenko, Filipenko. No, they don't. I was a woman, 29th. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Pisarenko, Pilipenko, 30th, 31st? No, it's not. Beamenko - 32nd? No, it's not. Bevenko, 33rd? No, it's not. 34, 35, 36 — Lapina, Zosula, Perestenko?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u16	Again I'm paying attention, I'm insisting again. This again applies to the trade in natural wines without adding sugar. I've already given you the arguments. It's about a million people working in villages, it's our vineyard sector. I'm begging you to support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u17	Dear colleagues, this amendment has already been justified. I'll put it to a vote, it's 34, 35 and 36. Let's support, that's what people need. Please put to the vote, please vote. [[16:11:57]] For 267 For – 260 Correction supported. The editor will then go to all items accordingly. Please, Amendment 39, 40. Don't insist. 41, 42 do not insist. 43, 44, 46, 47 -- don't insist. 49th Beazenka. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u18	All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u19	All amendments have been voted on. Dear colleagues, the committee proposes to adopt in the second reading and generally as a bill of the Law, set up without notice by the Chief Legal Authority. So I'm voting on a proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, a bill of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to promote entrepreneurial activity, 4591. Please vote. [[16:13:08]] For 319 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, one detail, draft Law No. 4581. I made a deal, said 4591. Please, Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u20	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Indeed, there are many important laws, but we must understand that today there is one vital law that needs to be considered, and we may fail. This is the Klukkowski Act, the draft Act on Amendments. and Elena Lukash, draft of the Act amending the Law on the State Register of Voters. We have to take it on first reading. On second reading, before vacation. Please, let us now consider it, vote on it, and follow the agenda according to the bills that have been put forward. Please submit the Law on the Register of Elections of Klukkowski and Lukash for consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u21	What's the number? No, I'm not betting right now, I'm just asking, what's the number of the law? Dear colleagues, I am introducing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act, 4480. [[on reducing the impact of the global economic crisis on electronic media activities in Ukraine]] Reporter: Landik Vladimir Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u22	Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues! Your opinion is proposed for second reading of Bill 4480 amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act. [[on reducing the impact of the global economic crisis on electronic media activities in Ukraine]] The bill proposes to regulate legislatively the question of establishing the size of the assembly for the issuance and extension of the language license and the license of the software provider. The Committee on Freedom and Words and Information received 14 amendments from the Ukrainian National Deputies, thanking all those who made their proposals. We have counted almost everyone who has greatly improved this bill and have been able to clarify certain positions. I hope that's the way the bill is supported in the hall. All the positions of this bill are in agreement with the representatives of the industry, and they're looking forward to it. We bring it in as an anti-crisis and ask all the deputies in the hall to support an important field of television, radio. If one of the deputies insists on his rejected amendments, we are prepared to compromise and vote, or we will agree to that. For the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information and for the whole field of television, this law is very important, so we are ready to compromise. Thank you for your attention, and I look forward to supporting the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u23	Dear colleagues! We're going to the amendment, the second amendment, Andrew Shevchenka, insists on her, Andrew Shevchenko? No, it's not. Third? No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u24	Four counts.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u25	Vladimir Karpuk's amendment, does Vladimir insist on it? No, it doesn't. The 9th Shewchenka does not insist. All other amendments are included. Dear colleagues! The committee proposes to accept it as a law in the second reading as a whole. The main legal administration does not have any comments to the project. I therefore put to the vote a proposal for a second reading committee and, as a whole, a bill amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act, please vote. [[on reducing the impact of the global economic crisis on electronic media activities in Ukraine]] [[Registration number 4480]] [[16:17:29]] For 318 The law is passed. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[concerning the hourly payment of work]] The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, Vladimir Stanislavovich Maruschenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u26	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! On May 21, 2009, a comparative table was submitted to the bill, taking into account the rights of the Editorial Department and the Chief Legal Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. However, the Supreme Council decided to return the bill to the Committee for the second reading. During the revision of the bill to read again to the committee, a proposal came from Ukrainian national deputy Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich. Since this proposal did not apply to the content of the bill, it was rejected. On June 10, 2009, the committee at its meeting reviewed the bill and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council on second reading and in general. The main legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has initiated the bill without notice. Request to support the committee’s decision and to adopt the draft law in second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u27	Dear colleagues! No notes? There is a proposal for a committee to adopt in a second reading and, as a whole, as a law, the General Legal Authority does not have any comments to the bill. That is why I am voting on the proposal to adopt in the second reading and, as a whole, as a law, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the hourly payment of work. Please vote. [[16:19:34]] For 208 The decision is not taken. We didn't make it? I'm voting for the return to the draft law, registration number 3253. Dear colleagues! [[16:20:00]] For 230 We're back. Now I'm voting on adoption in the second reading and generally as a bill of the bill. [[Registration number 3253]] Please vote. [[16:20:26]] For 236 The law is passed. Dear colleagues! Now we need to look at the draft law. We now have to consider a project to amend some of Ukraine's legislative acts on the features of financial recovery measures for banks, 4630. Reporter, as I was just told, is on the run. Let's move on to the next review of the bill, along with the proposal made by Mikhail Vasilovich Chechtov, I ask that you agree between the factions, if we agree, to consider this bill. If they agree and make an appropriate proposal signed. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian RSR Housing Code is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 2319]] At the same time, fellow believers! I must tell you that I have been approached by the authors of the draft law with the following letter: “In connection with the draft draft of the new Ukrainian Housing Code, which includes the proposals set out in the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Housing for the Housing of Orphans and Children Deprived of Parental Care, initiated by Korzh and Popov, we call it off and ask you to remove it.” [[Registration number 2319]] Dear colleagues! In view of the already standardized proposals contained in Law 2319 that are addressed by the authors of the bill, the bill is simply being withdrawn. Is there no objection? Thank you! The draft Law amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on Urban Electrical Transport, Reporter – Popov Alexander Pavlović, co-rapporteur – Deputy Head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy Valeriy Alexiyyovich Baranov is under review. [[Registration number 2486]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u28	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The essence of this law is in the following. As you know, the Ukrainian Law on City Electricity was passed in 2004. Article 18 of the Law stipulates that for three years after this law has become effective for urban electric transport, electricity tariffs are applied to the population. In 2007, this rule entered into force and it became a matter of increasing electricity prices for electric transport. The previous government settled this issue by making the appropriate decision that is in force today. In order to regulate this rule, the legislators of the law propose electricity for urban electricity consumption to be applied to electricity supplied to the population, i.e. for an indefinite period of time. And I'll add that today the subsector of urban electric transport is in a very difficult situation, it has huge damage, first. It's different. There is a sharp increase in debt on wages. And if today's government-level regulation is broken, tariffs, I'll remind you again, can increase by more than 20 percent. In some cities 80 percent of the population’s income categories are transported by electricity today. Therefore, the drafters propose to support this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u29	Alexander Pavlovich, thank you. Valerius Alexiyovich Baranov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing of Regional Policy at its meeting on September 3, last year, considered a bill amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on Urban Electrical Transport, introduced by the national deputies Popov, Skutjak, Serbian and others. The bill proposes to establish a permanent standard of application for urban electric transport of the same tariff on electricity as that set for the population. The main scientific and expert office is proposing to reject the bill because it considers that pricing in this area is regulated by the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers. The Committee on Budget Affairs believes that the bill will have no impact on the income and expenditure of the budget or on its implementation during the current financial year. The Committee believes that the adoption of Bill No. 2486, as the Ukrainian Law, will allow the future of the city electric transport company to provide services for the transport of different categories of passengers, first of all, by avoiding the deterioration of the financial situation of enterprises. At the same time, according to members of the committee, the problem of payment needs to be addressed in a comprehensive manner, taking into account the interests of all parties to the process. It is therefore appropriate to entrust the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine with the development and approval of an order for the provision of targeted assistance to socially vulnerable groups and the use of urban electricity and to limit the duration of the duty rate for businesses of carriers to the date of entry into force of the bill. Taking into account the Committee's presentation, the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes a bill to amend article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on Urban Electrical Transport, as a result of the first reading, to be adopted as a basis and in preparation for consideration in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u31	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u32	Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u33	Dear colleagues, the bill is very short for them, and this law proposes for urban electric transport to set electricity prices at tariffs applied to the population. There is no objection to putting a proposal to the vote. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Law amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on Urban Electrical Transport. [[Registration number 2486]] [[16:27:58]] For 233 Decision taken. Thank you. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the features of bank financial recovery measures is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 4630]] Reporter - Acting Minister of Finance Umanski Igor Ivanovich He's a reporter. Who will report from the Committee on Banking and Banking?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u34	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The specified bill is a joint product of the government and the National Bank. The main objective of this bill is to improve the procedures that are currently defined by banking legislation on the issue of the introduction of temporary administration and on issues that ensure the implementation of measures for the restructuring and restructuring of banks. Without this bill, of course, it is very difficult for the government and the National Bank, as regulator, to provide reliable and court-based risk management in the right way, including bank capitalisation procedures. A strong request is made to support the bill, which includes standards for the protection of investors and creditors of banks. The main objective is to ensure a rapid, clear and understandable process of restructuring, restructuring and temporary administration of banks. Without this, it is impossible to provide adequate protection for the interests of investors and creditors of banks today in today’s conditions. In addition, we propose to extend until January 1, 2013, a standard according to which deposits by individuals in commercial banks and interest on these deposits will not be subject to taxation. A significant bill was considered yesterday by the Committee on Banking and Banking. Before him was a series of suggestions like committee heads, national deputies, international experts. And it was agreed that we would work with this bill to take all these proposals into account. The committee is meeting tomorrow, and these proposals are being considered expeditiously, and we will be ready to present a bill in the near future that could be supported by taking into account all ideas and proposals for second reading and adoption as a whole. Therefore, honourable national MPs, I ask you very much to support it as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u35	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u36	And give the task to the committee of profile by means of an accelerated procedure to consider and prepare it for second reading. Thank you very much, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u37	Dear colleagues! Thank you, sit down. We made a decision yesterday on the bill and instructed the committee to prepare it for consideration today. Unfortunately, he had just received information that the committee had not considered the bill. Well, that's because we're looking at yesterday's decision was made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And the committee promised that they would look into it. So just sign up for the performance. Let's talk. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. John the Rabbit, Andrew Shevchenko
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u38	Dear National Deputies, John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Of course, we don't just have to save the banking system. In addition, we need to rehabilitate the financial sector and the banking system. Because they've been playing so much that they're nowhere else. That's the first one. The other one. The thing is, there's an institute of so-called temporary administrators. And we need to think about the terms of these administrations. At present, decisions are usually made for six months. In six months, I don't know where the bailout of a bank that was assigned to temporary administrations is going to be going as well. And as a result, it's such a long time that sooner or later this bank is just stretched out and it's gone. So the second question is the question of the term of temporary administrators. This question, from my point of view, has to be solved in the blink of an eye. Because there's a lot of examples where there's farm funds on deposits, time goes by, no money goes back, and movement goes. Third. It is necessary to establish responsibility for the recovery of the banks of those responsible at the National Bank and who are taking charge of the matter. Because, again, we see, there's complete irresponsibility. And in practice, it happens in a way that the creditor is equal to the borrower, more than that, the borrower is used to give him some of the money. They call it a discount. In fact, it is a direct robbery of these businesses. So I think we need to move in this direction, but we need to kill the very responsible articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u39	Who else do we have to speak on this? Please. Andrew Shevchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u40	Give me the word of Polunie, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u41	Please, Poluniev.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u42	Dear colleagues, we are given a very important bill, on which today the fate of the banking system and the restructuring that is taking place. This bill was discussed on a committee of profile, it was generally approved, but some comments were made that the Ministry of Finance would take into account, would also take into account the wishes and proposals of all the MP factions. It is very important that we adopt this bill today in the first reading, take into account all the comments and corrections to the second reading, and accept it at this session. So I ask you very much and I urge the Committee on Banking and Financial Affairs to support this important bill. Today, it depends on the success of restructuring in the banking system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u43	Yes, Your Honor, have you all spoken? Please, Arjevitin, one minute from the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that this bill is not as much a bank bill as it is a bill for customers of banks that have problems today. This bill sets out the rules for the State's entry into the troubled banks where the Ministry of Finance administration will be established and where the statutory capitals of these banks will be redeemed. So it's about 14 banks that today have stopped paying about 10 billion dollars. Money, including about five billion dollars of deposit money. If this bill is adopted, the State will be able to implement its programme to join the statutory capitals of these troubled banks. As a result, these non-payments and these clots that are now dependent on the banking system will come back. And that's why there's a big request for you, please. We're talking about banks that today are unable to pay off savings to Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u45	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. The bill has been completed. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on the features of financial recovery measures. [[Registration number 4630]] Please vote. [[16:36:56]] For 237 Decision taken. What's the whole point? What are you saying? Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u46	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! As our Parliament is working hard today to solve the problems facing the country and citizens, I propose to support the proposal and to include in the agenda and to consider Bill 4720 on amending the State budget to ensure the stable work of Naftogazu Ukraine. In order not to raise gas prices, the government is looking for additional funding for Naftogaz Ukraine. This is an urgent issue that needs to be resolved. Please include this bill in the agenda. Thank you. And making a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u47	Dear colleagues, I can say one thing about this. I was approached repeatedly, and I asked for understanding in the session room. Now, one minute. I've just been warned. If I move on to this issue now, there will be a hard reaction and there will be no more fruitful work, so please accept this question. Hold that question! Please. I want to say again, take that question, please. I can. If you don't mind, there's only one thing to do, one way to do it is to include it in. We're on a schedule for our meeting, and tomorrow we're going to look at it. This way. Well, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u48	Dear colleagues, such impulsive preparation of vital acts testifies. The lack of systems to deal with exactly state issues, and the fact that we couldn't find much smaller amounts in the morning to provide a living minimum and a new wage, there are tens of billions of dollars here very quickly. The question is why and is not covered here by the concern about population tariffs for the Ukrainian industry with costs that will have to be made in a completely different direction. There is a parliamentary procedure, please. Let's do this the way we should, and let's look at this in the schedule of the next plenary week.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u49	Ivan Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u50	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! The problem of NAC “Naftogaz Ukraine” is probably already of non-Ukrainian importance and much higher order, so everyone understands very well whether the 26 billion that are currently being taken out of the population under these conditions or because of the mechanisms proposed by the government are completely non-inflationary mechanisms, because it is money-bound. This is a solution, this is a solution to the problem, including the protection of our citizens. And here's a completely transparent scheme, and we understand what this is about: payments to Russia, July 7th not too soon, and again there was a warning from there. Dear colleagues, the issue of great importance, the adoption of it next week in the first reading -- that's what distracts him from solving it in the fall when there's going to be a lot of over-politicization of life. Alexander Volodymyrovich, we have just agreed with the faction manager Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov that the faction will not interfere with putting this issue in order of the day and consider, only that the committee has considered and decided that this is a positive issue. Please let's solve this urgent issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u51	Alexander Efraemov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u52	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, we cannot make this decision, even though from the point of view that the bill was only registered yesterday, and today we are putting it under consideration, no one has ever seen it before. Today, the sessional room has just rejected, or at least most of, the decision to increase the subsistence minimum, a bill that concerns all, without exception, the citizens of our State. And we are transferring the securities into 18 billion by a single solution, thereby depreciating all government documents. And this is understandable for any professionally trained professional. On the one hand, we are in violation of the Rules, and I would ask our parliamentary colleagues, who clearly hold this view, not to bring this issue to your attention, Vladimir Mihajlovich. And on the other hand, we allow clean, I say, disregard for our people when we leave their salaries at the level of the past few years, a.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u53	Now we're going to get into a discussion. I'm asking you, dear colleagues, let's not get involved in this discussion. I just want to make one point: that the bill on amending the budget, which provides for an increase in the subsistence minimum, the minimum wage, we have adopted. You got it? I'll take it. And you don't have to say you didn't want to support him. That's the first one. And the second. Let's get out of this colossus like this. Just to be able to get to know the document, let's put it in the agenda, let's go back to work and all. And I think each side will settle down as a compromise. Alexander Pecklushenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u54	Dear colleagues, respectable Vladimir Mihajlovich, no, Naftogaz is a state-run enterprise for which every politician has a heartache, and we must understand that it is the life of the country that depends on it. Vladimir Mihajlovich, this is about 18 billion. Would you please tell me how we can make decisions with you today without any information on budget implementation? We need to ask the Government to disclose the performance data, to understand where the money is going. I want to tell you, dear colleagues, that Naftogaz money has long been swallowed up and taken to the filtration fields, and no additional Naftogaz money will be received. It is simply an attempt to conceal the criminal budgetary policy of this Government, this Prime Minister. We are the faction of the “Regions” will not allow that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u55	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think we should keep it at work. Please, we need to keep the Supreme Council working, and what we need to hear about the progress of the budget implementation is definitely a report and information. But I can tell my colleagues that I put him on the schedule four times, I suggested, but since there were different dialogues, then they removed the question from my mind, not at my suggestion. So let us, if we obey in principle, obey in principle, but let principle be always. And perhaps when we consider this issue, when we discuss it, we will need to listen to information about what is going on in Naftogaza, but to make a decision on the basis of all the information. So I'm going to put to the vote a proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the bill, registration number 4720, to amend the Ukrainian State Budget Act, 4720. [[on compensations to NAC Naftogaz in Ukraine]] Please vote. [[16:44:53]] For 235 It's on. Please, I ask the committee in charge to consider this issue, including representatives of Naftogazu, so that we can address this issue with all the conclusions. [[B in m in s a l in]] What? I mean to provide information on the state of affairs in Naftogaza, as required by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Planning and Construction of Areas, registration number 3645, is being announced for consideration. [[on educational and cultural subjects]] Reporter – National Deputy of Ukraine Smitujh Grigory Evdzimovicz, co-rapporteur – Deputy Head of Committee Baranov Valeriy Alexiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u56	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Your attention is given to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Planning and Landing, number 3645. During the economic crisis, the construction of all the new buildings has been considerably reduced, but the construction of educational, cultural, and social facilities has been cut short. The State should support the construction of humanitarian facilities by freeing the outsiders from payment of rations for the consideration of engineering and social infrastructure. Now the fuel contribution to the development of infrastructure for cultural and educational facilities, medical and health purposes, is 4 percent of the total cost of objects. This is a considerable amount that affects the total cost of objects. In my view, therefore, it is necessary to release the builders of educational and cultural objects from the commercial participation in the creation and development of the infrastructure of the populace. And that's what my bill proposes. The Profile Committee supports the innovation data. During the discussion of the bill at the construction committee’s meeting, it was suggested that sports and medical facilities be included in the list. These suggestions can be taken into account during our discussion. This standard compares the named institutions, regardless of the form of ownership and subordination, to objects that are built on behalf of government authorities or local governments at the expense of government or local budgets. A few literally numbers for your famous. In our country, for today’s day, the network of private preschools for today’s day stands at 766 such facilities, where about 22,000 of our children live. With regard to the network of day - to - day educational institutions, there are 226 in our country for this year, where they are being trained nearby.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u57	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u58	where about 22,000 of our schoolchildren are trained. The network of Ukrainian technical facilities is 1,231,000 by number. The number of students at the beginning of 2008 of higher education institutions in private form of ownership of the first and fourth levels of regional accreditation in our country is 49 000 688 university students and the number of students is 365. 939 people, I ask the National Deputies to support the bill in the first reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u59	Do you have everyone? Thank you. Valerius Alexiyovich Baranov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u60	Dear colleagues! The bill refers to the exemption of customers from the commercial participation in the development of engineering, transportation, and social infrastructure, the settlements in the construction of educational and cultural facilities, schools, kindergartens, cultural buildings, libraries, theaters, cinemas, museums, and so forth. What will have a positive effect on the spiritual development of the Ukrainian nation? At present, government authorities, or local authorities, are exempt from such wages, and the marginal amount of food involved for other contractors in the construction of cultural and educational facilities is 4 percent of the total cost of construction, or reconstruction of the building. The committee came to the conclusion of other committees with various proposals. Thus, the Committee on Science and Education proposes to reject the bill and the Committee on Culture and Spirituality to accept it as a basis. The Committee on Budget Budgets proposes to cancel the rations for the development of the engineering and social infrastructure of the population and to authorize the National Deputy of Ukraine, Davidenka Andrija Anatoliyevich, to present a separate opinion to the Committee of Budgets at the plenary. The Chief Scientific and Expert Administration of the Supreme Council's Apparatus believes that the bill needs to be finalized in part of clarifying the list of educational and cultural institutions. At its meeting on March 18, the committee considered a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Planning and Landing. During the discussion of the bill, members of the committee supported this legislative initiative, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the results of the first reading, adopting the bill as a basis. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u61	Dear colleagues, the committee is offering to take the floor. Any other thoughts, warnings? None. May I put it to a vote? A proposal for a committee to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Planning and Construction of Areas on Educational and Cultural Purposes is put to the vote. Please vote on the basis. [[16:51:31]] For 155 The decision is not taken. About re-reading the draft law. [[Registration number 3645]] Please vote. [[16:51:54]] For 347 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let us therefore step forward, practically all factions have called for us to vote, to make a decision on the bill relating to "Artec" and "Young Guard" because. [[4634]] I didn't say you hadn't heard! So, one minute! Well, listen to the end. [[B in m in s a l in]] So what I'm going to say is that now we're going to consider two bills that relate to the voter register, and I'm asking the initiators to have a consultation. You didn't hear the end of it. Dear colleagues! The draft Law on Amendments to the Law on the State Register of Voters, as well as the draft Act on Amendments to the Law on the State Register of Voters, is being announced for consideration. [[on primary registration issues]] [[on the status and authority of the national voter register and the listing of voters]] [[Registration numbers 3145, 3469 respectively]] Rapporteurs of the Ukrainian National Deputies Lukas Olena Leonidivna, Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanovic, and co-rapporteur of the Committee Podgorni Sergey Petrovich. Please, Olena Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u62	Thank you! Honorable colleagues, distinguished audiences, distinguished voters! The next election of the President of Ukraine and the rest of the elections will be held in the first in Ukraine in accordance with the rules established by the legislation on the State Register of Voters and on its basis. To this day, we rarely wonder how this system works and what we will face in January and February, when citizens will not find themselves in the Lists and present claims to everyone, including us and representatives of other political parties. As of June 1, the voter registration process began. As a result of the original formation of this register, there are 36 million 600,000 voters in Ukraine. Sadly, though, according to the law in force, the register is filled with information, attention, in 2006. And if we don't now support the bill of amendment to this legislation, then formally anyone can sue the state register because they don't comply with the law in force, which establishes that they are formed on the basis of 2006. That's the first one. The other one. In order to change the so-called electoral address of every electorate of Ukraine under the applicable law, a separate decision of the Central Electoral Commission is necessary. The current legislation stipulates that in Ukraine they change the address of residence every year by 5-10 percent of the total number of voters. This means that the CLTC will process and make the appropriate decision for about two million voters in a year. If you take at least 30 minutes to vote and make a written decision, the State Electoral Register for 2010 will be clarified by the third millennium, which makes it absolutely impossible to vote in an honest and transparent manner.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u63	Please, yes, finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u64	I could say that my bill has three main objectives: First. To update the lists and destroy this date, the 2006 register, is not normal. The other one. To remove the Central Electoral Commission and allow the authorities to register on the sites to specify the electoral lists so that the vineyards would be specified in Winnica and the Harkows in Kharkiv, not everything written in the Central Electoral Commission that the citizen from Corn Street on the street of Lesno moved. And the third. Install and increase the political control of the political parties for the voter register and the ability to get a database and control it, and install voters in this register. These are the major changes, the rest of the changes are technical. My bill doesn't have any political or some kind of workload. I ask you very much to support it, first, and to vote in favour of the short procedure for preparing it for the second reading, so that, in the last plenary week, we can correct the disadvantages that I have said and make the register work, and give citizens the right to choose and choose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u65	Yuri Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u66	Thank you, Mr. Head, dear colleagues. My bill is very close to the goals that my predecessor, Mrs. Olena Lukash, has announced here, but there are usually substantial differences. I can agree that there are virtually no political aspects, not to mention the exclusion of the words “Ukrainian language” from the State Register Act, but this is indeed political things. In fact, the volume of my bill is significantly smaller because less is needed in my view of change. Since one of the changes proposed by Ms. Olena Lukas has been highlighted, I have to say my point of view about her. If we allow registering authorities, which are the structures in areas and cities of regional importance, to change the register database on their own throughout Ukraine, then I guarantee that after this, the State Register Act will have to be repealed, because it will be totally unnecessary with the yoke on the budget's neck, chaos, which will create any benefit from the existence of the state register. I think we need to look for a reasonable organizational solution here, but the one proposed by my predecessor, I think, is unacceptable. There are a number of other minor changes. Some of them are obsolete, since the bill was passed almost a year ago. I think because I have to accept, I would suggest, of course, my own admission on the first reading, and, I think the committee by next plenary week will be able to prepare them for adoption as a whole. I absolutely confirm that some of these changes are just necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u67	Thank you. Dear colleagues, now the committee's conclusion on this matter. I'd like to invite you to the address of Upper Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u68	Honorary Presidium, Honourable People's Deputies, Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government reviewed on April 08, 2009, both drafts of the Ukrainian Law amending the Law on the National Register of Elections on the First Registration of Electioners, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputy Lukas Olena, and on the status of the implementation of the national register of voters and the compilation of voter lists prior to the creation of the national voter register submitted by the Ukrainian National MP, Klutkovski Jurij. [[registration 3145]] [[Registration number 3469]] Since the authors of both bills proposed to amend certain provisions of the Ukrainian Act on the State Register of Voters in order to improve the legal regulation of the activities of registering bodies and the procedure for its formation. The committee considered the conclusions on these bills that had come. According to the Committee on Legal Policy, the bills cited correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine and can be accepted as a basis for consideration in the first reading. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has made separate remarks to Bill 3145 and believes that the first reading of the bill requires that the subject of the legislative initiative be returned to work. At the same time, Bill 3469, as a result of the first reading, can be adopted on the basis of comments and suggestions made. The Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government agreed with the drafters of the bill that certain provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the State Register of Voters needed to be improved. And it confirmed the need to make changes to the specific provisions of the Act, the Central Election Commission, which also makes great efforts to ensure that the State Register of Elections as an automated information telecommunications system is able to function as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u69	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u70	The Committee, taking into account the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate, unanimously concluded that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should recommend a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Register of Voters, as a result of the first reading, to be adopted as a basis. [[on the status and authority of the State Election Register and the compilation of voter lists prior to the creation of the State Electoral Register]] [[Number 3469]] If a positive decision is taken by Parliament on this bill, the committee will work on it, taking into account the comments and suggestions made to it, as well as the money contained in Bill 3145 by the Ukrainian national deputy Lukash Helena Leonidivna. The decision is given to you. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u71	Dear colleagues, there is a need for discussion, please write down these bills. The name of the National Deputies is used to put it on the information board. Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u72	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! From the start of the elections on the following day, experts say, preparations for the next election begin. We've been talking about the President's election in this session room for two or three years. But we're changing the laws at the last minute. Why? And it's very simple. What's underneath this noise, when everyone's interested in it because there's interest because there's going to be a hundred candidates and everybody wants something in the law to see and for their own benefit, there's going to be decisions under this noise that have absolutely no satisfaction, no reason to be such a decision. If you've read what's going on, I'll explain. I'll give you a simple explanation. If now all problems related to the first time in the life of our state of voter registration refer to the competence of the Supreme Council, because it adopts the law and only the law regulates these problems and issues, some of our colleagues today suggest that all these functions be transferred to the hands of the Central Electoral Commission. That there's nothing the head of Parliament to grow weary about. There is a Central Election Commission and let it write legal acts. The Constitution does not provide for this. Okay. One of the political forces thinks that she has most of the CLTC. Another political power thinks it has a majority in the CBC. And I'll see what you do when the election campaign comes. You'll see how you're going to tear up the Central Electoral Commission to make a decision in favor of one or the other. Is there not enough room for us to accept? No, it's not. We're putting everything into the hands of the Central Electoral Commission. Another project suggests that the next project will generally refuse tender government purchases, so that everything related to electoral lists, without any tenders.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u73	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u74	only as decided by the Central Election Commission. Why is it accepted? You know that the prosecutor’s office has brought a criminal case in connection with the conduct of the case in this way. Now they're trying to shut down the anti-law of the Central Electoral Commission. Vote, but you will see what you will face when the election phase comes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u75	Just a minute. Olena Lukash, please, from the faction, but one minute. One minute, because they didn't sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u76	I'll be there. Dear colleagues, you may not read someone’s bill and then something goes wrong. I'm going to take off these insinuations that we're giving something to the Central Electoral Commission, and I'm going to say that now, on the contrary, she has everything. I read: “The change in the electoral address of the elector is made on the basis of the decision of the registry manager, the Central Election Commission.” So now, imagine, vineyards, I'm just giving you an example. The Central Electoral Commission has received requests from the Berszak RDA registry department, 98 voter records need to be changed. So every electorate in the Berszak region knows the Central Election Commission knows, personally, which street, who is 18 years old, who died. And now she's going to make every decision and she's going to pay attention! – up to 60 sections of this register in this Winnietsky region. It's not real. 2 million decisions a year, roughly, will be taken by the Central Election Commission, only after the condemned 15,000 decisions a year. I want to tell you that our bills are both mine and Klukkowski's are not going to depend on politicians or someone from the CBC, and vice versa, we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u77	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u78	We ask to facilitate and improve those procedures so that a Ukrainian citizen can specify himself on the list and in the registration authorities, and at the level of the district election committee. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u79	Dear colleagues! From the faction? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u80	Thank you for the opportunity, and I want to repeat what Elena Leonidovna just said. There is no politics in this bill, there are only technologies, so there are different approaches to these technologies. I'd like to pay attention to Adam Ivanovich or he'll like it if the changes to the register are made by every district government administration, every mishquikon. Would he learn much about what was left in that register? So let's not complain about the central electoral commission, let's get her a normal job. As far as tender purchases are concerned, Adam Ivanovich, this standard in preparing for second reading will be excluded, since all these problems are solved, the criminal case is closed, the material database of the register is finally formed, and there are no further problems. So it's not going to be there because it's out of date, and I want to say it again, just for a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u81	Please, Yuri Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u82	It's a motive. For reasons of vote. Honorable colleagues, respected colleagues, have just been told that this law violates the Constitution, namely, article 92 of the Constitution. In fact, the laws determine the order of the organization of elections, but this is not the Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine or the Supreme Council, this is the Register Act. And the innovations that are being proposed are directly related to the creation of the list itself. We don't violate the Constitution. I think we can pass this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u83	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. May I have your attention, please? In order to register and discuss the bill, it will be the first to vote - registration number 3145, author Olena Lukash, second to 3469, author Yuri Klukkowski. That's why I'm voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Law amending the Law on the State Register of Voters, registered number 3145. [[on primary registration issues]] Please vote. [[17:09:28]] For-157. The decision is not taken. Now, if you'll excuse me! I'm voting on a draft bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Register of Voters. [[Registration number 3469]] [[on the status and authority of the State Election Register and the compilation of voter lists]] Again, registration number 3469. Please vote. [[17:10:07]] For 374 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, a proposal was made to put to the vote the commission of the preparatory committee to conduct short periods in view of the pressure on time. Is there no objection? I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[17:10:41]] For 350. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I ask you to listen carefully. We have here a proposal regarding the draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on State Support and the Features of the Functioning of the Children's Centres "Artek" and "Young Guards". This is registration number 4634. Since there is no objection to being considered today, perhaps we would compromise ourselves by voting for inclusion in the agenda and by inclusion then it would be possible to prepare the bill for consideration. No objections? [[B in m in s a l in]] It's not included. It should be included in the agenda. He's not involved, dear fellows! That's why I'm voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft law (registration number 4634) amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Act on State Support and the Features of the Children's Centres "Artec" and "Young Guards". Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] So there's a return to the question. Let's go back, no problem. [[17:12:04]] For 354 Decision taken. What, in general? We've put it in order of the day. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, we now have an interesting bill to consider with you. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Ukrainian Natural and Command Fund. And who are the authors of this bill: Rabbit, Dove, and Komar. The reporter is Bunny Ivan Aleksandrovich. And the co-reporter is the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Anatoly Ivanovich. Ah, your attention, please! John the Rabbit will answer from the team of authors and the committee's decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, mankind is rapidly entering an era when its development will be limited by natural capital, a natural resource base, not by industrial or financial capital, as it has been so far. We all need to understand this and act accordingly both in a strategic and in a short time. What should be the logic of our actions in such a situation? And the same as for industrial and financial capital, that is to say, we have to make the most efficient use of natural resources and make a growing investment in the development of their restorative part. God gave birth to Ukrainians as a powerful restoration part of natural capital, particularly the earth. The natural-invention fund is an important component of the natural capital itself, which is why it needs to be protected and developed. The bill improves the legislative framework for such activities. Our proposals are also based on a change in the practice of the functioning of PPP objects, which has changed significantly since the adoption of the Law on the Natural and Commanding Fund of Ukraine. May I remind you, honourable national deputies, that this was in 1993. And throughout this time, only a few changes have been made to the law. What principles are laid down in the law in force? First: the creation and functioning of areas and objects of the natural command fund is improving, including the legislative framework for the preservation of the integrity of natural and command objects. To this end, it is suggested that the limits of the PPP objects should be determined before they are installed in kind according to the materials of the PPP sites and objects. Second, the regulation of the special use of natural resources within the territories and objects of the CAP is clarified by introducing the provisions of the law into the rules of the Law on Allowance in the Field of Economic Activities. Special use is done within limits. The list of permitted uses of natural resources, territories, and objects is determined by its mode. Permits for the use of natural resources of PSF objects are issued by the central executive body for environmental protection, its local structures, local councils according to the level of PSF objects. The permit is issued on a free basis. Third, the composition and mandate of the National Conservation Service of Ukraine’s natural reserve fund has been clarified. The Law is supplemented by a new article 61.1. – social and legal protection of officials, public protection services of the Ukrainian natural reserve fund. For you, the distinguished national deputies, it is not a secret that the grasping hands have reached the land and the forest, to the reserved areas. Very often, conservation officials of the natural reserve fund have to deal with the weapons of criminals in the protection of, in fact, the future nation. It is therefore proposed that the State Protection Service be given the status of the natural conservation authority. Officials of the State Protection Service should be subject to compulsory State personal insurance in accordance with the law. Similar standards have already been established in the Ukrainian Forest Codex regarding the State Forest Protection. Fourth, the bill specifies the parameters of the regime for the protection, reproduction and use of natural complexes according to the functional zone for biosphere reserves, national parks. In particular, it is suggested that areas of biosphere reserves be zoned according to the organization’s project. These refinements are also needed to prevent the destructive activity of those who want to prevent the creation of CCDs. The CAP continues to exploit natural resources in barbaric ways. They do this in a very simple way: they intimidate people who live near a future conservation facility by what seems to them to be forbidden any economic activity, that they will be out of work in the event of the creation of a conservation area. A fresh example of this activity is seen in the creation of the Grand Bir NPP in the Sumskie region. That's enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u85	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u86	to make sure that the legislator provides for the national natural parks of the farm zone. The committee at its meeting considered the bill and invites the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept it as a basis. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council also recommends that the bill be adopted as a basis, with a few comments that are easily taken into account when preparing the bill for second reading. According to the Ministry of Finance, the introduction of compulsory state - owned insurance for the National Conservation Service of the Natural Reserve will require annual additional expenses of approximately 1.95 million dollars. Therefore, depending on the passage of the bill, we will introduce in the second reading in the End a position within the appropriate time limits for the entry into force of the law. Asked to support the bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u87	Dear colleagues, the committee must now make its decision. Oh, they've already come to a conclusion from the committee. I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, the committee is offering to take the floor. Are there any other warnings in this regard? You don't? Can we put this proposal to the vote? The proposal for a committee to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Ukrainian Natural and Command Fund, registration number 2747, is put to the vote. Please vote. [[17:18:59]] For 348 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Protection of Animals against Cruel Conduct is being introduced, registration number 1264. [[on the clarification of norms and terms]] Rapporteur: National Deputy of Ukraine Komar Mikola Stepanović, co-rapporteur-Seminoga Anatoli Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u88	Well, it's a total laugh in the hall. You know, I had a right to a replica because my last name was on it, but I didn't take that right because I think you know we're not tough politicians anymore, we're tough politicians. And what we have here in this room is not Christian, you know. I'm not telling you to mock or beat your name, that it's not appropriate, but let's just be more family, we're all people, all Christians. In fact, in 2006, Ukraine adopted a legislative act to protect animals from cruelty at the level of the State. The existence of this law in the Ukrainian legislative field is a prerequisite for our State’s admission to the European community, where similar laws have been in force for many years in Britain since 1822 and in Germany since 1840. During the two years of validity of the Animal Protection Act, a number of shortcomings have been identified that prevent the law from performing its functions by significantly reducing its effectiveness. Many articles of the law are essentially declarant, the absence of a clear term for “severe treatment of animals” does not allow for the provision of legislation with the Code of Administrative Violations. In general, the bill is consistent with the Convention of the Council of Europe on Animal Rights and removes the inconsistencies that have arisen during the implementation of the provisions of the Ukrainian Act on the Protection of Animals from Cruel Conduct. The purpose of the bill is to solve problems in the areas of maintenance and treatment of domestic animals in the localities, to protect them and to regulate the number of homeless animals. The main scientific and expert office recommends adopting a bill on the basis of which the bill does not require additional costs from the state and local budgets. The adoption of this law will create a legal basis for effective functioning.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u89	Please finish. Dear colleagues! The report is complete. Dear colleagues! I want to apologize to Mikola Stepanovich if he's taken this joke as a beating. Please, Anatoly Ivanovich Seminoga, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u90	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues, national MPs! For your consideration, a bill aimed at regulating social relations in the field of animal treatment is proposed, which is an integral part of daily human life. The project provides an expanded interpretation of the term “criminal treatment of animals”, which sets out the most important measures to promote awareness of humane treatment of animals. Rules have been developed for the treatment of animals in agriculture, livestock, for the organization of spectacular measures, for the conduct of scientific experiments, and so forth. An expanded list of wrongdoings for which responsibility rests. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommends that the bill be adopted on a basis, and implementation does not require any additional expenditure from the State budget. The committee proposes a draft Ukrainian Act amending the Law on Animal Protection and Cruel Conduct to be adopted on the basis of further development of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster. I personally want to thank the authors of this bill, because a very topic has been raised and I would like to ask you to prepare for the Euro-2012 year, we should understand that we should not only repair roads, hotels and stadiums, but also bring the legislative base into line and change our attitude, including to the animal world. Thank you for your attention. And please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u91	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss it? Please sign up. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Katerina Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u92	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, respected colleagues, is indeed a very important law and we should be grateful to our colleagues for paying attention to our younger brothers and not making bad laws. But I have a note of the following order, and this observation is supported by colleagues from our faction “Block of Lithuania” in the sense that before this law we will vote in the first reading, we will certainly need to introduce a special chapter in which the obligations of all people who have animals, particularly dogs and other animals, which can harm children, people and those around us who live are seriously committed. You see how many times when dogs that are hoovered are raised in rich backyards, children are bitten to death, it becomes a disaster in those populated areas where there are large estates. Please take this into account and write down the standard of this law, for otherwise we protect animals, forget people, especially our children. The same is true of other animals, not just dogs. We have many cases where animals are kept in houses and cabins for the pleasure of the host, and animals that can harm neighbors, people, and no one limits this on the grounds that it is necessary to protect the animal world. Everything must be wise, the animal and man must live, coexist, but man from wild animals.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u93	People's Deputy Bodnar, Timoshenko Street.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u94	Olga Bodnar, Yulia Timoshenko Block. I mean, yes. You know, in that famous movie, "someone might have a human friend's dog, but we do have one." Well, it looks like we don't have a dog or a real friend. The bill is called “For the protection of animals from cruel behaviour”. So what Mrs. Catherine said, it can be taken into account, but not in this law, but in accordance with the legislation, the Criminal Code and so forth. Today we're talking about what's going on in mass cruelty to animals, and we're producing it. Why? Because we don't teach our children how to treat animals in this world, as is customary in Europe. My proposal is this: to adopt this bill in the first reading is absolutely necessary, and we need it, starting with that it is the European Union, and we bring our legislation into line with the European Union, this is, respectfully, referring to the Euro-2012, because these are also the requirements for the Euro-2012. Well, I'd like to go to our colleagues and to Vladimir Mikhailovich first, and I think it's time to listen and join the Convention for the Protection of the Rights of Animals, where there is a European Convention for the Protection of the Rights of Animals. And that would put a dot in it once and for all. I've already taken such an initiative in the Cabinet of Ministers, and today the Cabinet of Ministers is discussing this issue. I think that if the Hall joined and the Supreme Council were to take such an initiative, it would only be the best thing for our society and to protect animals from cruel behavior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u95	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, Samuel Catherine Semenovna. Please, you have a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u96	Thank you. I've got a minute. I really felt this way, almost crying, even though I had never dealt harshly with animals, but I am very sorry that these issues and these anticrisis important State bills have not been considered, you know, as if they were petty. I still want to know, when we look at the question of the Herson machine factory, people are standing under walls, people are starving every day, people aren't getting paid, and we're crying tears now?Oh, my God! But, for God's sake, let's see, at the bottom of the questions that have to do with the anti-crisis measures, the questions that have to do with the industry of our industrial enterprises, the question that we're going to be amazed at people, people are going to curse us. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u97	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The committee's offering to take it as a basis. I am voting on this proposal, namely the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of Animals from Cruel Conduct, to clarify rules and terms. Registration number 1264. Please vote. [[17:30:09]] For 331 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences is being announced for consideration. [[on the amount of fines for road traffic offences]] The reporter is Ukrainian national deputy Kravchenko, co-rapporteur Moisik Volodymir Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u98	Cowchenko is a faction of Communists. Dear colleagues and distinguished people's deputies! National MP Simonenko and I have submitted a bill amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences. [[on the amount of fines for road traffic offences]] With the financial and economic crisis in Ukraine, unemployment is rising, wages are freezing. In many businesses, workers are sent on vacation without maintenance. The state as a whole has a decline in the standard of living of the population. Against this backdrop, the Ukrainian Act of Amendment to some Ukrainian legislation on improving the regulation of road safety relations is cruel to our population. In this regard, we introduced a bill that is the essence of the following. We propose a traffic violation that has not occurred and cannot lead to an emergency, leaving administrative offences in the old version of the Ukrainian Code. But let's say that. Today, 180 bracelets are too expensive to pay for driving without, let's say, wearing a seat belt is too expensive, so for example, we offer two, at least 34 bracelets. Next question. Wrong parking, for example. Next question, the wrong towing of transport and so on. These are crimes that should not be punished as cruelly as they are now. And let's still assume that we're hot at the time, and in the old edition for minor offences, there are suggestions to vote. As the drafter of the bill, I ask that the outcome of the vote be published.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u99	Thank you. I think that if we keep publishing the results of the vote, the Voice of Ukraine will do just that. Moisik Volodymir Romanovich. Let's make this decision, we'll take the vote of the Supreme Council, because some of us proposed yesterday, others today. Come on. Okay. Thank you. Schemchuk Viktor Viktorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u100	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Your opinion is proposed by the Ukrainian Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on the amount of fines for road traffic offences]] The bill proposes to differentiate the amount of fines for infringements of traffic regulations, namely fines for certain offences that do not lead to accidents, leave them as they were prior to the entry into force of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on improving the regulation of road safety relations. According to the authors of the project, the increase in fines for violating traffic rules in the face of the financial and economic crisis in Ukraine and the decline in living standards is not justified. After reviewing the bill and considering it at a committee meeting, the Committee notes that the traffic rules applied to violators, the severe influences envisaged by the Ukrainian Supreme Council on 24 September 2008 by the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine have significantly improved the condition of the driver's transport discipline and have had an effective impact on the level of emergency and the severity of the consequences of violations. [[on improving the regulation of road safety relations]] Therefore, the increased responsibility of road users for security violations was justified. The Committee believes that efforts to improve the responsibility for infringements of road traffic rules, such as reduction of fines, prohibition of photofixion, and so on, will lead to an increase in the number of offences. Therefore, in support of its decision to refrain from introducing bills to mitigate liability for traffic violations, adopted on March 18, 2009, following committee hearings on issues raised during the implementation of traffic safety legislation, the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes that the bill be rejected. This is also the opinion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. The reference to the economic and financial crisis, the decline in living standards, can't be a reason for the downsizing of responsibility. Please support the committee's decision to reject the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u101	Sign up for a bill, registration number 3373. National MP Pavlovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u102	Please give the word to Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u103	Please, Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u104	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. You know, it's obviously true that the Head of the Supreme Council said a few days ago when he said that as the election approaches, the rules of road traffic would probably be eliminated. So I want to illustrate this in some examples, and I have a moral right, because I'm going to be completely objective. And in his time, he passed a bill that wouldn't allow these visors to do anything. To be stationary, certified and so on. But in this case, I can't help but say some, I don't think it's right. The author of the bill said that those violations that do not cause, do not have a derivative accident and so forth. What's really going on? What's going on? Where does the fine go down? The use of motor vehicles not equipped with technical devices that allow negotiation without the help of the hands. You're all road users, you see what's going on in the car? I'm not going to talk about gender issues right now, but let's say the driver: the lipstick in one hand, the phone in the other hand, doesn't understand what else he's driving. What are you doing? This must be punished, with severe punishment. You can't let your phone talk while you're on the phone. But let her, excuse me, be alone in the stake somewhere, and she's an intruder, which will lead to her being innocent in an emergency. One. One second. Let's see what else. I don't have a gender moment. What's more, let's see what's proposed, dear colleagues. In the absence of safety belts and motorcycles, 0.2 is offered from an untaxed minimum. Do you know how many bracelets that is? That's three bracelets. Well, can you please tell me, if there's a fine of three bracelets, any of these teenagers, young people will ever wear this helmet? Never. Someone's gonna buckle up? Never. So let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u105	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u106	Let's not spray the baby with water. I think we need to take this more seriously, just to make sure that the police don't violate the existing law, but to shorten, I don't think we need to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u107	National Deputy Prokopchuk, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u108	Dear colleagues, the TV setters, the radio listeners, I would like to say that so many, in fact, I agree with my colleague Zarubinski, there will be bills that would attract drivers there, on the one hand, but let's think about the pedestrians, the ones whose children are dying. And that's when we started talking about what we're going to do right now taking all of these sanctions off, when the number of road accidents immediately increased almost twice, just because those of us who are said to have been bullying on the road heard that they're canceling now. You can't pay for the visor, you can't do that any more, and so on. I think the committee's decision was accommodating. And with all due respect to colleagues, really, there's a job to be done first of all by the Post Service, especially the DAI staff, but in no way are they going to undo what's saved lives today, almost doubled the emergency rate, saved lives for at least three thousand people. I think that's why we're going to have to leave the standards that are there, because the DAI employees are both managers and district workers, and the department needs to carry out appropriate, as it were, jobs with the niceness of the DAI employees, because there are actually cases where they're not very tolerant and they're using their service position. So I call on this bill, maybe it will become, as they say, the next, as they say, when you can see, some norms will change. They're changing things for today, to my belief, you don't need anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u109	National Deputy Ariev, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, let's maybe move on: let's go to the presidential election and suspend the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences in general, so no one will pay any fines at all. People don't have money! They're poor, everybody knows that. Well, let's not even fine them for anything. Everyone's having a hard time. Let's still think a little bit about what we're doing. Let's understand that by the election campaign, by trying to please everyone, we can simply pay for the lives of people as proposed in this law. Please tell me, what's the seat belt doing? He saves lives in 80 percent. And if a person can't reach his own head that needs to be attached to a car, sorry, we have, unfortunately, a very low level of legal culture in the population. We can know. And we also have very low levels of culture in this legal room very often. But let us, then, if we are to help people, perhaps we should help them. Not a pen, but a knut. Unfortunately, we have this situation today. I think there's going to be a lot more proposals. They may soon be allowed to drink a little at the wheel, but then they will all be drinking. There will be many suggestions to make changes to laws that will appeal to people. But let's be a little more responsible, more accountable to the people, to the people than to the voters that we want to like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u111	Thank you. From faction to one minute. Please Kravchenko and then Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u112	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Well, it's clear that there will be a political vote, but I'll tell you one thing. These guards are scary for people's lives, so they don't think about the next. I am the President of the All-Ukrainian Union for the Protection of Drivers' Rights. I get hundreds of letters, 7000 fines that the driver brings from Vinnica to Kiev, that's all that's possible. It's a nightmare. Today we've put in our hands everything we can to make fun of the driver, the man. And before that, we've been looking at the animal bill, so let's first of all treat people humanly, not beat ourselves in the chest, as we are deeply concerned about them. Such fines are not commensurate with wages in any civilized country. So, dear colleagues, please don't engage in any confusion. You're only worried about getting on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u113	Please, Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u114	Dear colleagues, I think, and it is clear that this bill is doomed, it will not be accepted. I want to address the Ukrainian national deputies who were involved, who are now facing these sanctions. It's not about them, believe me, and it's not about liking someone or not liking them. DAJI, our State Auto Inspectory, needs to be rebuilt immediately. Look, it's not about fines. Once again in the ambush, again after the tree, he runs again with the radar, again in the middle of the night. Well, let's one day eventually put all these procedures in motion civilized. I think the P.I. committee should do it right now, the P.I. committee should be holding committee hearings right now and studying the consequences, whether positive or negative, of these punitive sanctions, especially so that people don't get annoyed by these bullying and humiliations on the road. Then we'll be fine, then we'll be fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u115	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. Committee and Committee opinion: reject the bill. The main scientific experiment is to reject. At the same time, according to the Rules, the proposal for adoption is based on the draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences. [[Registration number 3773, 3373]] [[on the amount of fines for road traffic offences]] [[17:45:29]] For 165 By factions, please: Region Party – 138, "Block Timoshenko", "Our Ukraine" – 0, Communist faction – 27, "Block of Lithuania" – 0, non-fractional – 0. Dear colleagues, I put to the vote the first time I read the draft law again. [[Registration number 3373]] [[17:46:04]] For 175 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act is being announced for consideration. [[on University clinics]] [[Registration number 1487]] Reporter – Komar Mikola Stepanovic, co-reporter – Polodimir Ivanovic. We continue our evening session for up to 18 hours for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u116	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The bill on the establishment of university-based medical and preventive clinics has addressed problems in the relationship between higher education institutions and community health institutions. The proposed bill lays down rules for the formation of educational and educational complexes. It does not give rise to any kind of aid; it does not require additional spending on the part of the government budget; it does not simply involve settling legal shortcomings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u117	Yes, thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Vladimir Ivanovich Polochalo, head of the Committee on Education and Science From where? Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u118	Dear colleagues, the essence of this law has been briefly explained. We'll discuss the fall on our committee on May 14th this bill. There are a number of serious observations that express scientific expertise, including those concerning, inter alia, bilateral agreements. How many, what kind of agreements are there between the parties? Then it is also said that who, in the very higher educational institutions, should form such clinics? So this is about what structures are we talking about? But at the same time, I want to say that the committee generally supported this bill. I supported it in the sense that I would take it as a basis for all these remarks. And I would like to add that there are a lot of problems that are affecting higher education, just because there is no basic law on higher education that needs to be adopted immediately. So it turns out that we patch these holes and we adopt these laws either in the first reading or in the second reading, with very serious differences in approaches to those or other aspects that touch higher school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u119	Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to adopt this bill as a basis. What are some warnings to the deputies? Is there no objection to putting this motion to the vote? A proposal for a committee to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act, registration number 1487 is put to the vote. [[on University clinics]] Please vote. [[17:49:31]] For-162 The decision is not taken. I'll bet you a vote on sending the draft law a registration number. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, now. Yuri Carmazin, please. And Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u120	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I took the floor for reasons, because obviously not everyone understood what was going on. There are clinics across the border, the average of which is not the largest clinic, I call you 8,000 workers, 800 doctors and so on. And today our people are going there. We have experts today. Recently, in Kharkiv, an operation was performed, and one member of our party was removed 40 kilograms of tumor, the very experts of our universities. Why are we against this law today? Guys, this is what we need! All over the world, this is what happens. All over the world, believe me, I've dealt with medicine. I urge you to reconsider your views on this vote. Who could not press the button right now, click. This is something that needs to be done -- to develop university clinics, which are extremely necessary. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I beg you, there are obviously no people here. I didn't expect, for example, that they wouldn't vote and that's why we didn't discuss this bill. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u121	Samolikka Katerina Seminovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u122	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I would like to remind you, especially BUTU, where only 22 people voted in favour of the Bill and Our Ukraine 11 people. We have 80 percent of healthy children in first grade, they finish school 20 percent of healthy children, and then they go to higher education, and we really need to solve this. We take very good care of animals and hunters and all that, about bats, why don't we just worry about the future, about our children. I'm talking to everyone, this is a question, not just about our committee, but about the Health Committee, but we need to settle this question for the future state, and I ask you to come back.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u123	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u124	Dear colleagues! The Zaporozhye Medical University, the district hospital, the doctors' hospitals, the Zaporozhye residents say what I'm saying, the university clinic works, works beautifully, firstly, there is an opportunity to equip the equipment. Secondly, I was just approaching Professor Prairie he said wise things, there can't be a medical school without a clinic, without practice. University clinics are all over the world, for us it's an improvement in the quality of medical care, it's run by a professor, a professor, a professor, a professor, a doctor, a doctorate, a post-graduate degree in the same department of pediatrics or general surgery, or hospital therapy, etc. Second, it's a great practice for people who get medical education. And most importantly, this is the kind of approach that we have to introduce in the session room all of the bills that relate to the introduction of compulsory state-owned social and health insurance. Without this medical reform, vote for university clinics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u125	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all the classic universities have clinics and this is our story, and there's no politics here, we should thank our colleague for introducing this bill, that's the first. Second, you all well realize that today’s innovative treatments and diagnostics are only possible for science. If there's classical universities, there's chemists, there's biologists, there's radiophysics, there's radiologists, there's clinics. So we should make this decision in the first reading as an initiative and reject any policy. For all who are familiar with the education system, this is obvious. So I'm voting for a return to the draft law, to a return, to a review of the bill. [[Registration number 1487]] [[17:54:35]] For 221 The decision is not taken. Again, a return to the draft law is once again a return to the draft bill. [[Registration number 1487]] Please vote. [[17:55:10]] For 271 Dear colleagues! I'm asking you not to remind me of the Rules! If you remind yourself, you will not take any decision of the government and calm down, please! They went back to reviewing the bill. And now I'm voting for adoption on the basis of draft Law 1487. Well, we need to find compromise, some normal position already! [[17:55:50]] For 260 Decision taken. The factions, please.: Region Party – 146, "Block of Timoshenko" – 11, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 55, Communists – 27, "Block of Lithuania" – 20, non-fractional – 1. Now, your attention, your colleagues, the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws on higher education. [[on the elimination of barriers to higher education by persons with disabilities]] [[Registration number 2185]] Who will be the reporter? You? Please, Mikola Stepanovich. Well, here are four drafters of the bill, so one of the co-authors can speak, and Komar Mikola Vasilovich is co-author, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u126	Dear colleagues! The purpose of this bill, which is proposed, is to remove the gaps in legislation in higher education, create favourable conditions for Ukrainian citizens to obtain higher education. The adoption of the law will create more favourable conditions for higher education by citizens, particularly those with limited physical capacity. The Committee on Science and Education considered it at its meeting, recommending acceptance as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u127	Thank you, you too. Please. Is there a committee? Who will speak from the committee? Vladimir Ivanovich Polochalo, please head of the Committee on Education and Science.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u128	Dear colleagues, the committee was looking at this bill on June 11th, and once again, I want to say that there was a whole series of comments. The committee decided to make a decision on the basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u129	What are your reasonings, fellow believers? Who would like to speak in the discussion? I can't see. I am voting on a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of a draft law amending some of Ukraine's higher education laws to remove barriers to higher education by persons with disabilities. [[Registration number 2189]] Please vote. [[17:58:16]] For 218. The decision is not taken. I'm betting on voting for re-reading Bill 2189. Let's do it again. [[17:58:41]] For 341 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, now to your mind, the draft Personal Data Protection Act. Shevchuk Oleg Borisovich, National Rapporteur. The reporter is Samuel Catherine Semenovna. We've got two more bills, we'll be able to see to the end of this series.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u130	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Personal Data Protection Bill is the result of the joint work of Oleg Shevchuk, Vladimir Pollohal, Vladimir Lithuania, Catherine Samuelk and a large group of experts. Today, unfortunately, no Ukrainian citizen, regardless of his social status, welfare, education, or nationality, has guaranteed personal protection under the Constitution. For a few dozen bracelets at well - known sales sites, you can obtain databases of medical, law enforcement, tax, and other authorities that contain confidential information. There are more and more crimes in the world using personal data. According to experts, the illegal market for personal data is measured worldwide by tens of billions of dollars: deposit accounts are widely opened, and information attacks are carried out on pension and investment funds databases. This bill is aimed at a systematic solution to this problem. Its task is to create a legal framework that establishes rights and guarantees, responsibilities, and responsibility for all subjects involved in the protection of personal data. The project has a complex and long history. He has been working since 1997, he has had many versions and editors, he has been through all stages of reconciliation in ministries, departments, departments, experts and the public. The introduction of this bill will allow conditions to create effective protection of personal data in Ukraine, improve the balance between human rights, society and the state in this area. As a result, after its adoption, the bill will contribute to the development of information resources, the strengthening of private property and information products, the expansion of possibilities for combating computer crime, and the further development of information society. And to the end. The bill has yet another important goal: to harmonise our legislation with European legislation. Thank you for your attention. Please support the project in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u131	Thank you. Catherine Semenovna, please make a decision to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u132	The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education reviewed the bill and decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it in the first reading. I would like to point out that the Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has made a number of substantive observations, including editorial comments. But for the second reading, we will definitely accept it. What Is the Cause for Acceptance? Caused by the predominant lack of personal data traffic, the complete inviolability of citizens from the flow of information about the person and the limitations of legislative regulation in this area. We are grateful to all the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that have given us positive feedback. And the National Security and Defence Committee has also drawn our attention to speeding up the adoption of the bill. My colleague, the coauthor, has already said that he is the main purpose of this bill. I just want to add that this law applies to those who professionally create databases of public authorities, enterprises, organizations of all kinds of property, individuals, businesses, including doctors, lawyers, notaries. But it will not extend to activities from the creation of personal databases by a natural person solely for professional, personal, or household needs. This law will not apply to ordinary citizens, as well as to public organizations and religious organizations, for we had warnings about this account. We received suggestions and comments from the National Deputies of Gretzak Vasil and Mopsik Vladimir Romanovich, but Gretzak withdrew all his comments and warnings and reported that he was in agreement with the bill. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u133	Your Honor, who insists on discussing this bill? The committee proposes to accept it as a basis. Can we put this proposal to the vote? It is up to the committee to vote, please prepare for the vote, to adopt the draft Personal Data Protection Act. [[Registration number 2273]] Please vote. Oh, come on! The final decision must be made in a positive way. [[18:04:04]] For 252 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, and now draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, 2048. [[on the provision of timely pay]] The head of the Maruschenko subcommittee, please, Vladimir Stanislavovich. Is there a Marouschenko? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u134	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Social Policy and Work reviewed the bill on March 19, 2008. The bill proposes to abolish the rules that give rise to the priority of pay; to strengthen administrative responsibility for breaching the terms of pay, scholarships, wages; and to include in the content of collective contracts a party’s obligation to pay wages as a matter of priority. According to the authors, the adoption of the bill will create new opportunities to provide timely pay. According to the Supreme Council Committee on Legal Policy, it is inappropriate to amend article 1066 of the Ukrainian Civil Code. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Affairs believes that the bill can be accepted with some. That's what I'm talking about. The Supreme Council Committee on Law Enforcement suggests that the bill be returned to the subject of the legislative initiative for further development. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the bill needs to be finalized. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine does not support the draft law. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Finance, the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the National Tripartite Social and Economic Council of the President of Ukraine and the Federation of Employers of Ukraine do not support the bill. The Ministry of Justice, the National Bank, the State Tax Administration, support the bill if the comments and suggestions are taken into account. The U.S. Trade Federation supports the appropriateness and timeliness of the adoption of such a law. The Committee believes that the proposed changes help to improve the implementation of legislation aimed at timely payment of wages. The committee requests that the draft law be supported and adopted as a basis in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u135	Dear colleagues, the report is complete. The committee's offering to take it as a basis. This is about what is expected to be paid in the first order of priority, and making other payments after carrying out the obligation to pay the tax is the essence of the innovations proposed in the draft law. There's no denying that.? It is, isn't it? Who? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no, no. Bondarev, please excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u136	We have a denial from the committee. In particular, the bill is proposed in the Ukrainian Law on the Tax of Natural Persons to exclude article 8, paragraph 8.1., which would lead to the cancellation of the obligation of tax agents to pay taxes on the income of natural persons when paying tax to the taxpayer. [[_Other Organiser]] Thus, the administration system will be so interesting, big and expensive. In order to tax each individual, we will not be able to use the equipment that is now with the taxpayers, because we will have to work with each individual separately, it is not possible. Thus, the committee considers it unacceptable to exclude in the Ukrainian law “On the Tax of Natural Persons”, paragraph 8.1.2. Article 8, paragraph 8.1 and expressly against the adoption of the bill with registration number 2048 as a whole as a law. Please don't do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u137	It's not about the whole thing, it's just about the basis. Oleg Zarubinski, then Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u138	Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! And what we're here for is we're replacing the concept of who says that it really needs to be voted as a law in general. It's about voting on a basis and I think when it comes to paying a salary first, it shouldn't be a debate in a normal, civilized country at all. Because we have the vast majority of people living on wages, maybe someone doesn't understand it, or someone doesn't like it. And wages are the only source of activity for man. And if people don't pay their wages, then you can have a lot of discussion about how banks live and someone else's life and stuff. I insist that on behalf of the faction we insist that the first reading of this bill should be adopted. And the things that the committee representative said could actually be removed in preparation for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u139	Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u140	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, a respected colleague, is sure to receive a salary, especially for those who live on only one salary. At the same time, however, the standards proposed by the author of the bill reduce the revenues of the local and state budget committees. On the one hand, we are voting, like, this morning, the Papiev bill, which is almost 38 billion dollars in budget spending, on the other hand, we are once again proposing to vote for a bill that reduces the budget's income, where we take money on wages when there is no income in the budget. That's why I think that this bill, in its current form, is a threat to the budget as a result of people's interests, primarily budget-dependent, the interests of people who receive salaries in the budgetary sphere. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u141	Peter Cibenko, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u142	Thank you! Communist faction Peter Cibenko Head for the organization of Ukrainian veterans Dear colleagues! You know, this bill is very showy for us in a sense. What does that mean? It turns out we're adopting a law, we need to adopt a law to ensure timely payment of wages, without which it turns out that we don't know that it has to be paid, and we don't know that it has to be paid at the right time. And the next law that we're going to pass? Accepting the need to pay the pension at the proper time? This once again, I emphasize, it's about how deeply our society has pushed into those chains of markets, which turns out that someone has to prove that they have to pay their wages at the right time. I would like to confirm the fact that the faction of the Company of Ukraine will support this document. It should be accepted in the first reading and done in preparation for the second reading. Because the non-admission of this document will remain the situation as it is -- absolutely not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m1.u143	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The committee proposes to accept it as a basis. So I'm making this proposal for your consideration, namely the adoption of the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to ensure timely payment of wages. Registration number 2048. Please vote. [[18:12:36]] For-52 The factions? Please. Region Party 2, Yulia Block Timoshenko - 0, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense - 3, Communists - 27, Block of Lithuania - 20, non-fractional - 0. Ladies and gentlemen, I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work from 10:00 a.m. on schedule, which will be scheduled for Friday. Thanks for the job.
