ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u1	Dear national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[17:03:23]] There were 404 national deputies registered in the session hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, let me inform you of the outcome of the Conciliation Council meeting. But before I give you the relevant information, I would ask my distinguished colleagues to be thoroughly familiar with what I said at the opening of the session, so that there are no incomprehensible indignations or objections. Please take the transcript, it's very tolerant and calm, and please read it. And we'll assume that there's no cause for misunderstandings. We have made decisions and we recommend that you, honourable colleagues, support this: on Thursday, the first question to consider the socio-economic situation in Ukraine and the actions of the authorities to deal with the crisis. The draft schedule, which gives you a four-proposal, says: a draft decision on mistrust of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So this is a change issue, but in fact, when we make decisions on the outcome of the debate, other than the other proposals that will be made, it will be put to the vote and the draft Decision on Responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Let's move on. It is suggested, fellow believers, that such rules of procedure should be taken into account. In order to secure work, in accordance with the Rules, a proposal has been made by all factions to ask the President of Ukraine for a proposal, a request, a recommendation from the Supreme Council of Ukraine to participate in this meeting. Understandably, both the Cabinet of Ministers and the members of the government are invited to invite the heads of the district councils. With this in mind, build up such a rule. To the President of Ukraine, if he expresses his wish and will be in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, he will propose a speech without limit to 45 minutes. If the MPs have any questions, the President will agree to answer them in 30 minutes. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, 45 minutes and 30 minutes, respectively. Questions for members of the Cabinet of Ministers, if any, will be asked by the Ukrainian National Deputies in 30 minutes. This is also provided for. From factions to ten minutes from each faction. Talks from deputies for up to 30 minutes. Presentations from the deputies, up to 30 minutes. We also agreed that there would be two heads of district councils, east and west, but we would have to vote separately to make that decision in five minutes. Dear colleagues, please, there is a possibility that the Supreme Council will make a decision. We're looking for compromise. We need the truth, so please. Next, dear colleagues. The decisions that are being proposed, we cannot invite the governors, because this needs to be reconciled with both the Cabinet of Ministers and the President. The main focus of the budget is on the heads of the district councils. Next are draft decisions, discussion and decision-making. But given the sensitivity of the matter and the circumstances in which the vote would raise the issue of government mistrust, we also agreed that we would strictly and unfailingly abide by the Rules. That's right. Requesting all deputies to register at the registration desks as required. When we get started, and there's going to be general information about the MPs who are registered, we're going to put it on the board, and we're going to ask the deputies who haven't been able to register and they're going straight to the session room to register. After we approach the decision-making process, everyone present in this room will be invited to register at the registration desks. We will then publish this information so that every MP will make a conscious decision based on the collective position that will be defined. I'd like us to support that. In principle, this is required by the Constitution and the Rules. And one more moment. We also agreed that if the President of Ukraine, by reason of employment or other circumstances, does not respond to the proposal to take part in the consideration of this issue, it will not mean that we have reason to block the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Thursday. We have also agreed, Your Honor, that all the proposals that will come as a result of the consideration of this issue, apart from the already registered draft decision on mistrust of the Cabinet of Ministers, will also be considered, and the Supreme Council will determine the relevant decisions. I have led to your well-known agreed position as a conciliator. Now we need, honourable colleagues, to approve the schedule for the third to sixth February with one detail: on Thursday, instead of asking a question, one minute, instead of the draft decision on the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, we are asking questions about the socio-economic situation and the actions of the authorities to deal with the crisis, because this question is absorbing the proposal set out in the draft timetable. With this in mind, I am voting on the approval of the calendar of meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on February 3-6, 2009. Please vote. [[17:10:17]] For 415 The decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was adopted. Thank you. Dear colleagues, one minute, we've agreed on this. Attention, please. – that we are voting that there be a decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt an agreed position to give the representatives of the two district councils. And we agreed that these representatives, one to be identified by the Party of Regions, the second faction of BUIT. The correct offer was, for that matter. Please, please, let's give the faction leaders one minute at a time. Please, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. Faction leaders in one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u2	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable colleagues, let us vote in the complex, we must vote not only that we will be able to participate in the discussion of the two heads of the district councils, which will determine the political forces, on the one hand, the Party of Regions, on the other, the “Clock of Timoshenko”. And so that we can immediately vote on that rule of procedure on this issue that you've asked us not to waste our energy on Thursday and those who are willing to go report to us so that they know in advance what rules are in place to deal with this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u3	Thank you. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u4	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I also support the proposal made by Adam Ivanovich on the vote today in the Chamber. In turn, I would like to express my great thanks to all those who participated in the Conciliation Council for understanding the importance of the issue that we have raised today. And we hope that on Thursday we will hear the true answers, especially the people in our country will hear the true answers to the questions that will be addressed in the Supreme Hall. And that in the end, we will establish a tradition where people will learn about the situation in our State from the officials who are in the official institutions, not from the show that we have every day in our country. We have already become showmen, not people who have to do everyday, hard work to make the situation that is truly catastrophic in our country better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u5	Please, Ivan Kirilenko. Mikola Martinenko later.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u6	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like to announce once again our faction's statement from the point of view that, after a proposal made yesterday at the Conciliation Council of the Party of the Regions, we would not start official work in the Bills Hall before we heard a report or a report or information about the state of affairs in the State, we supported it on the Conciliation Council yesterday, in fact, to do so without delay. And it was quite surprising to us that our colleagues insisted that a few goals should move the matter as far as possible on a later date. As a result, today even the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been blocked, and you have suggested that this issue be considered immediately. Decision taken, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. We've lost almost a whole day, the offer of our faction -- to exhaust the agenda today, to consider all the issues. So work until we consider it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u7	Mikola Martinenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u8	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, we support both the procedure for dealing with the issue and the deadline for consideration of the matter. In addition, we believe that these issues, particularly those initiated after the government has been heard, should be considered as soon as possible, made decisions and allowed all branches of government to work normally. The faction set up constructively to work on this session, we want to consider specific issues. The issues that have been raised relate to specific economic problems. I can only give examples of the bills that have been submitted by our faction: this is the draft Ukrainian Tax Code, this is the bill on the State Land cadastre, the addition to the Act on Concession, and many others. So, dear fellows, today we have spent a day negotiating, on the one hand fruitless, but in the end we find understanding and let us continue to find understanding for the further work of our Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u9	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u10	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Frankly, it was sad, when we came to the Supreme Council, today, the faction of the Lithuanian Block, and after a half-month's time, when we were used to working, working normally as parliamentarians worked, today there were again attempts, in any case we had the impression, external attempts from beyond the walls of the Supreme Council to make sure that the Supreme Council didn't work, in any case, to have certain destabilization processes in the Supreme Council. So I think we should thank ourselves for our own wisdom, for the leadership of the Supreme Council, for taking our national parliament, the Ukrainian Parliament, out of this peak. It's too bad, it's true, and it's really, honestly I'm saying that a whole series of bills that were to be considered and adopted today, not political, not ideological, have never been considered because of this blockade. We hope that further work will be much more constructive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u11	Dear people's deputies, we exchanged thoughts. The following suggestions were made: a key proposal to continue the work, and I join in thanking Alexander Sergiyovich for his constructiveism, and I would ask that we do not go beyond understanding right now. As far as continuing work is concerned. Regrettably, according to the Continued Work Rules, it is only possible to set up a meeting in the morning. So we can't do that, we'll try to make up for it tomorrow. As for the broadcast proposals, here I have spoken to speak on UT-1, and I ask now that Mikola Tomenko study this question and I am convinced that we will make a decision. Dear colleagues, with regard to the rule of procedure, let us now adopt the rules, vote separately to give the right, because it is not provided for, the heads of the district councils, two, as we have said, and then we will adopt the rules, i.e. two votes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Can we do one vote? All right, but let me read the rules then again: the President of Ukraine is not proposing to limit time, but up to 45 minutes for a speech if the President is president; 30 if questions arise in the deputies; the Prime Minister of Ukraine, i.e. from the Cabinet of Ministers, say, 45 and 30 questions to the Cabinet of Ministers, if they are, up to 30 minutes; statements from factions, up to 10 minutes from each faction, statements from the deputy corps, from our deputies, from our colleagues to 30 minutes; heads of district councils, two making proposals from the Party of Regions and from the Yulia Tymoshenko Block, every 5 minutes, to 5 minutes; making appropriate decisions. But I would like to say one more thing, dear colleagues, that we agreed that if the President of Ukraine couldn't take part in the work, that doesn't mean that we won't discuss the issue. And plus, your honors, about the registration, we agreed with you, I don't see the need to go back to that question. With this in mind, I am voting on the proposed regulation on the socio-economic situation in Ukraine and on the action of the authorities to deal with the crisis. Please vote. [[17:19:24]] For 398 Decision taken. Regarding the proposal made regarding the National Bank, the Conciliation Board recommends after long debates, since we have heard this question repeatedly, well, not to go back to it. Dear colleagues, we will invite all those appointed or assigned by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider this matter. So your proposal will be taken into account. Dear colleagues, please, let's work. We've got it. Dear colleagues, we need to confirm the order of the day of the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's almost 1,100 bills. You have this document. So let's do this, your honors, let's do this: we're going to confirm it, and when we put it directly into the schedule of meetings, we're going to define a dialogue with you, and we're going to make decisions about those issues that don't cause, let's say, non-adception first, and we're going to be the only ones about which bills are needed by the country first. I am voting on draft decree 3694: the order of the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call. Please vote, please vote. [[17:21:18]] For 217 The decision is not taken. Please. What, what? Please sign in for five minutes, please, five minutes. Dear colleagues, we have agreed with you that we will reconcile positions and make decisions. Please have the names of the national MPs who signed up. Ivan Hare, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u12	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Dear Mr. Head, the point is that I've examined this list of bills, and there aren't very many bills. And that's why we have to take the basis, vote: give the day for work and vote in general, because I understand perfectly, if they're not in the daytime, so there's going to be a special procedure for including a bill in the daytime and through a conciliatory committee, and by voting in the hall. Because of this, people probably don't vote because they understand there's not a whole bunch of bills. I have, for example, a bill to reduce income tax for a private farm, passed by a committee, and it's not here. And a lot of other bills. That's why I'm offering to hold on for a while. Let us vote on the basis, one day on the proposal, and on Friday or Thursday we will vote finally. It's going to be state-owned.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u13	Dear colleagues, I will now give you some information on this matter. People's deputy Beales, Communist faction. I just want to say that all the bills that have been tabled for this day are included. There are only two chapters, the second chapter is where the committees are not recommended. But I put it to a vote and those who don't recommend it, because it's the right of the national MP to draft legislation. Take a closer look. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u14	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u15	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The problem is that, unfortunately, almost all the bills proposed by the Communist factions fell into those chapters that are not necessary for consideration in general, chapter one. What's more, there are laws here that have a direct bearing on the requirements of the Constitution. For example, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko's bill on the basic principles of internal and external politics. This is a constitutional requirement. If I am not mistaken, during the 19 - year activities of the Supreme Council, we have approved such basic principles once, in 1994. I can't understand how the profile committee figured out not to do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u16	Let me finish. I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u17	And other bills, as well as orientations that are not political in nature, that result from what the Constitution or our decisions require. For example, the laws introduced by Tkachenko on land issues and so forth. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I think if there's no solution now, let's still be able to work another or two days to make a final decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u18	National Deputy Terrence, faction of the Timoshenko Yulia Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u19	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have a long-standing debt to Laszko. Please give him your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u20	Oleg Lazko. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u21	W. Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Thank you, Mr. Taran. Dear Volodymira Mihajlovich, colleague of Kamchatny, requests the inclusion of bill 2650. It's about amending the Citizens' Appeal Act, by Sidelnik and Kamchatny. This bill allows for more freedom in bringing citizens to power. And I, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, on behalf of the faction of "Julia Tymoshenko" address you personally and to the entire Parliament today do not leave the hall until we consider the laws on "Artec". There are changes to the Budget Act, which, in addition, under the government's initiatives, 60 million dollars for the financing of Artek. There is a bill that regulates the activities of Artek and the Young Guard, which allows them not to pillage their lands, which liberates them, gives them a lot of preferences, because on these weekends all the political forces ploughed on the "Artec", everyone told them how they love him, how they care about the people who work there.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u22	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u23	All were pianists, all showed how much they loved the people who worked there, and how they loved the children who were to rest there. So let's move from words to action and support the government of Timoshenko and those bills that have been tabled for consideration by the Supreme Council. The Committee on Budgets, chaired by Derkas Mikli Ivanovich, considered, accepted. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u24	Thank you. Tikhov Viktor Mikolaiovich, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u25	He's out. If you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u26	Alexander Efraemov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u27	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, we have not voted in favour of the package that was proposed, for one simple reason that we do not see the basic laws that are now required in our State, and above all the anti-crisis programme that you, Vladimir Mihajlovich, have talked about, and that is what Prime Minister Timoshenko is talking about every day, but still we have not seen this programme before. And a great request to you, Vladimir Mikhailovich! Today we have decided on Thursday, to meet with the President, perhaps even today, to inform him of this decision, so that it will not be unexpected for him, and he could not say that he is leaving again for another mission to Volin or Poland. Because the situation in the State requires his presence here and we would like to know his answer tomorrow, already here in the hall, if possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u28	Thank you. National Deputy Karpuk, please, because everyone from the faction has acted. Is there a National Deputy Karpuk? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u29	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! When the budget was discussed, we talked about health care as a whole in a difficult budget situation. Underfunding in the field is quite significant, especially in many government programs. And you said that health care should become a priority in the work of the Supreme Council. Therefore, I ask you to include, first of all, those bills that are very important for reforming health care and are important for adoption in a package. In particular, Laws 1040, 1041, 1042, which apply to the introduction of a compulsory national social health insurance. You look at the date, these bills registered with the Supreme Council more than a year ago, but they've never been introduced to the agenda of the day. Therefore, I believe that the real issue of health care should be a priority in this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u30	Dear colleagues! We exchanged thoughts, such an offer that should console us all. Let's make a decision. I'm asking for your attention! That all the bills registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine came to the Supreme Council for a state of 17 hours for 30 minutes are included in the agenda of the day session. Because we already have the apparatus that starts to determine what to give and what not to give! All questions are included in the discussion. And accordingly, I'm going to ask Alexander Volodymyrovich to make sure that we don't have one bill forgotten and let's make that decision, because if we don't make it, we won't confirm the order of the day session again. With this proposal in mind, I am voting for the approval of the draft Supreme Council decision on the order of the day of the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call, registration number 3694, please vote. [[17:30:09]] For 216 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we've just agreed on some kind of cooperation, so what's it all about? I'm putting the vote on the ground, please let's take the draft Supreme Council Resolution 3694 as a basis. [[17:30:41]] For 346 Decision taken. I ask that all the factions look at this project once again, but let's make sure that all the bills that have been put into the order of the day are on schedule. If there are any differences, I think we're going to agree on the Conciliation Council and then we're going to make a positive decision. I'd like to re-examine during Wednesday, and by the way, what are the committees going to do, so that we can confirm the agenda on Thursday, no objections? We take that as a protocol decision. Thank you. We can't vote anymore. Dear colleagues, the Conciliation Council has decided that we should return to the consideration of the Law of Ukraine. One minute, we've got a proposal, I'm sorry, from Oleg Laska, let's maybe take a look at these questions in the meantime, please, if you will. 2204 is the Ukrainian Act on the Organization and Order of Activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the proposals of the President of Ukraine. Next, Act 1418 amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving financial mechanisms for investing in housing. We have passed this law, but there have been a number of editorial clarifications that we have to vote on, they have been passed by the committee, and we just need to take decisions from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and then, honourable colleagues, we will consider the relevant laws that apply to "Artec" -- these are three bills. There's no denying that? You don't? Don't you have to vote? In this regard, however, we continue to work for 15 minutes before the completion of our consideration of these issues. Announcing the Ukrainian Act on the Organization and Order of Activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 18 September 2008. There is no Deputy Head of the Ukraine Presidential Office, Ivanovna Stavniychuk. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich, the position of the committee on this matter. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to a very serious question that concerns our procedure for organizing our internal work, which affects the decisions that we make. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich. May I have your attention, fellow officers?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u31	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! At its meeting on 24 December 2008, the Ukrainian Act “On the Organization and Order of Activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine” was reviewed by the Supreme Council on 4 September 2008, registered in 2204. Returned with repeated proposals by the President of Ukraine on September 18, this year. The Committee considers that the President of Ukraine had no constitutional basis for the return of the Ukrainian Act “On the Organization and Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine” adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 4 September 2008, following its review. The committee decided to make a proposal to the Head of the Supreme Council in accordance with article 94, part 4, of the Constitution of Ukraine, to publish the law on its signature. The Ukrainian Act “On the Organization and Order of Activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine” was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 8 April 2008 and re-adopted on 4 September 2008 with the rejection of the President of Ukraine's proposals that the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules should be law and therefore he proposes to reject the prescribed law, which he believes would allow the adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules to be legally binding. The Committee disagreed with the proposals of the President of Ukraine, since according to article 92, paragraph 21, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the organization, order of business of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the status of Ukrainian national deputies is determined solely by the laws of Ukraine. Thus, this rule also covers part of article 89 of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to which the organization and procedure of the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of its temporary special and temporary committees are established by law and, at the same time, the legislator has set out separately in the Constitution of Ukraine that the order of work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is established by the Constitution of Ukraine and by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On January 23, 2009, the President of Ukraine returned with a letter number 1/149, the third to review the Ukrainian Act “On the Organization of Orders of Activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine”. Adopted repeatedly by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on September 4, 2008 and September 18, 2008, returned with repeated proposals by the President of Ukraine. The reason for this position is that the President of Ukraine cannot sign this law, since the Supreme Council of Ukraine has already taken the veto three times under Ukrainian law on temporary investigators and special temporary special commissions, and on the disciplinary status of the State Social Affairs and Information Protection Service of Ukraine, and therefore the President proposes that the law be reconsidered with his proposals for September 18, 2008. On the basis of a systematic analysis of Ukraine's legislation, the committee insists that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be concluded with a review of Ukraine's laws returned by the President of Ukraine with a renewed veto. [[I'm sorry, we worked all day and drank all the water.]] And in the event that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is approached by such laws, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, according to the provisions of part four of article 94 of the Constitution of Ukraine, must officially publish them and publish them under its signature. This statement by the Committee is based on the decisions of the Constitutional Court of July 7, 1998, as of July 7, 1998, as of October 9, 2007, in the case of the 51st National Chamber of Ukraine on the official interpretation of the provisions of part four of article 94 of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to which the acting Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine formally publishes and publishes the law adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine no less than two thirds of its constitutional composition during the review. Not signed or published by the President of Ukraine for 10 days unless the previous Chief of the Supreme Council has done so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u32	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues, the committee has informed you. Let me just say this one more time. The Supreme Council passed the law. The president of Ukraine made this commitment. But when the veto was passed on to this law of the President of Ukraine, the number of this law was changed. Just a minute. Which gave the President of Ukraine reason to believe that this was a new law. By the way, I would like to say that in the same way the Supreme Council of Ukraine came under the Law on the Disciplinary Statute of the Special Liaison Unit. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, taking into account the remarks made by the President of Ukraine, has repeatedly decided to overcome the President's veto on this law and has thus corrected that technical error that has been made, by the way, and pointed out by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in particular the General Office of Legal Affairs. So when we set a precedent, we faced the need to reconsider the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. They are all about rejecting this law. If the Supreme Council does not support the President of Ukraine, does not reject this law, then a second proposal to overcome the President's veto will be put to the vote. And after that, if the President doesn't sign it within 10 days, we'll have every reason to publish it in the way defined by the Constitution of Ukraine. We've been discussing this for a long time, and we've come to the conclusion that we need to ensure legal purity so that we don't make decisions that are not valid. This issue was discussed at the Conciliation Council and we decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine return to this issue. So, dear colleagues, I will now put to the vote first, please note, the first is the President's proposal to reject the Ukrainian Act on the Organization and Order of Activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 2204, right? When this proposal doesn't get the required number of votes, I'm going to put a second motion to vote -- to beat the President's veto on this bill. May I have your attention, fellow officers? A vote is taken by the President of Ukraine on the rejection of the Ukrainian Act on the organization of the business order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 2204. Members are requested to determine how to vote. [[17:41:23]] For-23 The decision is not taken. Well, dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I now put to the vote a second proposal on overcoming the veto on the Presidential Law of Ukraine, on overcoming the President's veto on the Ukrainian Act on the Organization and Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote. [[17:42:08]] For 393 Decision taken. The factions, please. The faction of the Party of the Regions – 165, “Clock of the Yulia Timoshenko” – 152, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 30, Communist faction – 27, “Clock of Lithuania” – 19. We've made up our minds. Then, fellow Members, we have no reason to consider the draft decree proposed by our fellow national MP, Sass. Honourable National Deputies, a draft of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine, has been announced for consideration since 17.12.2008. Is Mikola Janovich Azarov there? Please. People's MP Klimenko. Dear colleagues, we simply need to clarify the law adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. These are editorials, we can, if there's no objection, immediately put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u33	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, your thoughts are now proposed to vote in favour of this Bill 1418, which was proclaimed in this Hall on December 18th. But there were some clarifications that needed to be accepted, and there was one amendment of the Serbian national MP that he agreed with, and it's counted here. And I would also like to thank our Chief Legal Authority, which has also provided technical corrections. I'd like to ask you to vote for this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, no warning? I am voting on the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine since 18.12.2008. Registration number 1418. Please vote. [[17:44:36]] For 389 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we now need to consider three documents: 3690 is a draft of the Law on State Support and Features for the Functioning of the Children's Centres of Artek and Youth Guard; 3690/P is a draft of the Law on State Support for the International Children's Centre of Artek and the State Enterprise “Ukrainian State Centre ‘Young Guard’, as well as a draft of the Law, Registration Number 3687, amending the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine 2009” in part of funding. Please, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u35	Thank you, Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, in view of the fact that this is indeed a relevant bill on the same issue, I propose that every rapporteur report a bill and their discussion take place all three of them together and then conduct it in person after each individual vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u36	There are no warnings about such an offer? Should I vote? You got it? Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. A minister is on his way to report Bill 3690, so perhaps we will now listen to a draft decree corresponding to Catherine Samuel. As soon as the minister arrives, we listen to his suggestions. And also to report on Bill 3687 will be the Deputy Minister of Finance of Umanski. Is it? Please, I'd like to ask very briefly. Give me five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u37	Five minutes. Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Vladimir Mikhailovich, especially to you, because since 2004, the Supreme Council has considered twice the work of the International Children's Centre, Artek. And we had a number of assignments there, and the Cabinet of Ministers, and the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, and other government agencies. First of all, the Supreme Council of Ukraine and you, by signing these decrees, considered it necessary for us to develop a long-term work programme and an Artek, and later the Young Guard, because Young Guards for 15 years have wandered through public organizations and, thanks to the Ukrainian National Deputies, we have barely brought it back to the state line. We offered to develop such a program. Sadly, it has been nearly four years, but the chariot is still there. The Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Cabinet of Ministers failed to carry out its mandate, and this was due to the constant change in the Cabinets of Ministers of Ukraine, and the hands did not reach that point. We also suggested that a government order be made. We know how many orphans in the state of orphans, half orphans, gifted children -- we know all that. And we suggested that it was the government's money that was going to solve this problem. Sadly, though, the question remained to be resolved. And so today we have come to the conclusion that there is virtually an artificial bankruptcy of two large people: one – the International Children's Centre “Artek” and the other – the State Enterprise “The Ukrainian Children's Centre Youth Guard”. Dear colleagues, I know that each of you has a different attitude toward solving this problem. I know that today there are also warnings that UNESCO will not agree to re-arrange the IDC “Artec”. I want to tell you that's absolutely not true. When Artek disappeared when he was not funded, then the late director of Artek Sidorenko approached the President of Ukraine and asked for the Dusi to be subordinated. [[then - Dogs]] And that's how we saved it. But to this day, I'm just amazed that Dusia didn't even make a public request for funding, either for Artek or for the Young Guard. And so I propose, in addition to the development of a programme to be submitted immediately to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we need to re-finance the International Children's Centre, Artek, at the expense of the State Budget for 15,000 children. We leave 10,000 trips so that the IDC can solve other issues, that is, sell abroad for our international travel changes, and thus make a living. Not to yourself, more loyal, but to "Artec". I consider it necessary to decide on the subordination of the International Children's Centre “Artek” of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And once again, I want to say that UNESCO will only be "for," and it doesn't have to ask permission, because UNESCO is interested in making this pearl, a whole baby pearl, including the educational significance of a huge one, so that we can save not only for Ukraine, but also for the whole world. We propose that an additional 10 million be allocated for the Young Guard repairs, because 20 years of no money has been invested. And the Young Guard has a better one, one of the best schools, which, among other things, has no corner. We really need to solve this. And we certainly suggest that the Attorney General's Office verify the use of land that, the territories that belonged to these two children's health centres. I'm asking you very much, I know the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u38	Yes, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u39	I know that the committee of profile, I, Paul Ivanovich, will report, almost unanimously voted in favour of this decision. And I would ask you very much without a comprehensive program without solving all material and housing issues, of course, "Artek" cannot develop. I would very much like to support this determination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u40	Thank you, Catherine Seed. Any questions?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u41	No questions asked. I'm asking for a report from the committee. Kostenko Paul Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u42	Dear colleagues, first of all, the government has submitted two bills to date, one for budget changes, the other for the features of the youth centre “Artek” and the children’s centre “Youth Guardia”. Catherine Semenovna Samuelk just presented her ruling, and I think it's there. It differs only because it refers to an additional 10 million funding for the reconstruction and existence of the Young Guard Children's Centre in Odessa. I'm saying that it doesn't seem like it's a recent problem. The Committee of All Members, which took care of these issues, the previous calls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, examined the possibilities of improving the activities of these centres, held exit meetings, took into account the suggestions of the management of Artek and the Young Guard, submitted proposals to the Supreme Council and the leadership of the State and, in the form of appropriate decisions of the Supreme Council, sought to resolve the painful issues of the viability of the most important children's centres of rest. Today, you have a ruling that has the decision of the Supreme Council, and that is why the decision of the committee is to support this decision, and to support it, then we will discuss these two bills, but the decision of the committee, today's ruling, to support it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u43	Thank you, Paul Ivanovich. Any questions? No questions asked. Please sit down. As you and I agreed, we're looking at other issues in the package. I now invite the Minister for Family Affairs, Youth and Sports, Ms. Yuri Alexiyovich, to report on the draft Law on State Support and the Features of the Children's Centres "Artek" and "The Youth Guard", number 3690. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u44	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, the honourable presiding officer! The Government is submitting to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft of the Ukrainian Law on State Support and Features for the Functioning of Children's Centres “Artek” and “Youth Guardia” as a year-round rehabilitation and rest of children, creating favourable conditions for the implementation of science and teaching programmes for children and adolescents aimed at the creative development of the child, presenting better traditions of Ukrainian culture, art, sports. Despite the high potential of the material, technical and personnel support of the Artek and Young Guard Children's Centres, there are circumstances that make them unable to function effectively. This is why the draft bill, which has long been awaiting its consideration at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, foresees a year-long recovery of children at the International Children's Centre “Artek” and the Ukrainian Children's Centre “Youth Guard” by taking into account the expenditure in the 2009 State Budget and for years to come for travel for recovery, rest and social protection of unprotected categories, the establishment of tax benefits, the identification of the characteristics of the legal regime of property established under these centres for the rights of agricultural knowledge, and the land provided to them for permanent use. The bill provides for additional funding in 2009 for 90 per cent purchases in Artek and 100 per cent in the Youth Guard, which will be granted to orphans, children deprived of parental care, disabled children, children from low-income and multi-child families, children from military service, journalists, internal affairs workers who have died in service, children from lost miners, and talented and gifted children from both Ukraine and all countries of the world. Despite all economic difficulties, the International Children's Centre “Artek” and the Ukrainian Children's Centre “Young Guard” must be preserved as world-renowned children's centres where the best children of Ukraine are gathered, the best children of the world. The adoption of the bill is a serious step in providing a system for the functioning of these two world - famous children’s health centers. The bill also provides that "Artek" and "Young Guard" are granted special status, according to which their property and land become completely untouched. It is forbidden to redistribute, alienate, rent, create joint ventures, shut down all except the way of claims to land or property of these two health facilities. These bills place a dot in these things once and for all, and the land and property are Sundays, uninhabited and belong to these two children’s health workers. It should also be noted that the bill provides for the operation of travel for children of extended categories of children to be exempt from taxation on added value. The adoption of the bill will allow for further improvement of the conditions for the recovery and rest of children, the organization of cultural and physical recreation for the growing generation, the improvement of the material and technical condition of these two health workers. The bill also provides for a number of very important decisions that will not only ensure the full functioning of two state health care institutions, but will also create conditions for their further development of the construction and development of a material and technical base, both of children's bodies and of other health care facilities, which are necessary for the full development and maintenance of safe children throughout the year. Thank you for your attention and would ask the Supreme Council to support this bill, both on the basis and in general, both of the Law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u45	Any questions? Let's sign up for Yuri Alexiovich. National MP Lukyanov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u46	I don't have a question, I have a suggestion for a draft ruling. We can already see that there has been a violation of legislation, including that we are addressing the Attorney General's Office, and I have a proposal that the relevant state authority, which will be involved in the implementation of the travels of the youth centre “Artek” and “Youth Guardia”, should first provide a family-specific committee, youth policy, sport and tourism with a plan to implement these travels. And every quarter, up to 20 numbers, were reported by population category. In order for us not to have that, we plan to give the dead militias away to their children, and in fact the children we know in the country of the people will go away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u47	I think that this proposal may be before the draft decision, but there, because not even the ministry will be doing the implementation of the route, but it is envisaged that the state-owned enterprise of the International Children's Centre, Artek, will be doing the implementation. But I think that the ruling can provide for a position that the Ministry will constantly inform the Committee of the Supreme Council, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, about the implementation plan, as well as the results of the year of the recovery of children whose categories, actions took place, how many children have recovered, what was the average cost of travel, and so on and so forth. Because I am convinced that the provision of parliamentary control over the functioning of both Artek and the Young Guard will also be an important element of their full and further development, and will always remind the members of the Supreme Council that we cannot forget about Artek and the Young Guard when the State budgets are approved for the current year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u48	People's deputy Knjazević, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u49	Dear Yuri Alexiyovich, I have a question of such a plan, frankly, to what extent did I realize that thanks to Artek we finally mentioned that we still have the Young Guard. Because somehow this camp has always been in the backyard, but, in fact, I think the marked, at least in Soviet times, and all of us were pioneers at that time, they were equivalent camps. And frankly, it's because of the position of the Ministry and your personal, "Youth Guard" doesn't have any serious problems right now, because the Ministry here has proven to be an effective manager. I think that if Artek had been in your possession from the very beginning, maybe this question didn't sound so relevant. At the same time, I was warned by the phrase in this decree that there would be a review of the change in ownership, although the bill prohibits the change of ownership, i.e. the Attorney General's Office should conduct it. Are there really such facts, including the Youth Guard, that there will be any change in the form of ownership, at least, under your leadership. Because I know it wasn't. On the contrary, everything was made not to be. Whether or not we should urge the innocent to be punished as a result of such a test. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u50	Thank you, Ruslan Petrovich. I want to testify once again that both Artek and Young Guard are owned by the State, not by the Ministry or by any private person, and this is perhaps the greatest acquisition of eighteen years of Ukrainian independence that we have kept in state ownership. I want to remind you, we have not forgotten the Youth Guard, because by the power of the various authorities of the State and, in particular, the position of the Ministry of Family, Youth and Sports in 2006, we were able to return the Youth Guard almost fifteen years later to state ownership by recognizing that its transfer to a non-existent pioneer organization in 1991 was illegal. And I can tell you that today, despite the difficult general situation, the Youth Guard, which has been in the Ministry of the Family for the past two years, young people and sports have no debts, no municipal debts, not any other kind. Moreover, every year we find some funds from our small budget to improve materially.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u51	Thank you, Yuri Alexiovich, of course. Sulkovsky Pavel Gnatovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u52	Thank you. Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions, Ravenshkin. I have a question for you, Mr. Minister. Well, you can imagine that, well, for example, the DUI didn't think to apply, maybe they wanted to create wonders in that area beautiful and so on. Here you are, a member of the Cabinet of Ministers, a minister who needs to keep such facilities under constant control. Please tell me, how was the 2009 budget formed and you as a minister were able to release the situation and not speak in Parliament when it was approved. Did you accept the 2009 budget? How can we blame everything today and everywhere and today go to the rostrum, Mr. Minister, and you are saying today that we must do everything we can to avoid any more of these mistakes. I think as long as there's such a free government, there will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u53	Thank you for asking. But I would like to inform you that the budget request made by the Ministry for the Development and Recovery of Children in Artek and Youth Guard was only 59 million for Artek -- a minimally calculated need that we identified for 2009. The address was supported by a profile committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. However, during the budget review, the position was not included both in the budget committee and in the vote of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, unfortunately. Regrettably, if you remember how the budget was approved, as the minister of the ministry’s position was not given to me. But, you know, I think we should always correct mistakes in time, see them, and not be afraid. So I urge the Supreme Council of Ukraine today to correct a mistake that has been made by different generations, different authorities and ensure full functioning.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u54	Thank you, Yuri Alexiovich. Have a seat, please. Kostenko Pavel Ivanovich is the committee's co-report.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u55	Dear colleagues, the problems, first of all, with Artek, have gained wide publicity in the last few weeks. I would like to point out that the committee has repeatedly addressed the problems of the Artek MDC and the Young Guard Center over the last few years. This is what I'm saying in order not to give the impression that this problem arose unexpectedly, and no one knew about artemitic and youth problems. Several members of the committee that took care of these issues in previous calls by the Supreme Council of Ukraine have studied the possibilities of improving the activities of these centres by holding field meetings, taking into account the suggestions of the management of Artec and the Youth Guard. The Supreme Council and the leadership of the state were brought to the attention of their proposals and in the form of appropriate regulations, and I spoke about this a few minutes ago and I was talking about a decision that I hope will be supported by the Supreme Council, which was made by Catherine Semenovna Samojlik. Well, I said, unfortunately, these decisions were not carried out, which led to today’s state of affairs. As for today's situation. The committee made a proposal to the Committee on Budget Affairs to increase the funding of Artek's activities to 100 million dollars in 2009 by making a decision and sending it to the Budget Committee in due course. If this committee proposal were to be taken into account, there would not be any problems that we are solving today, not just the countryman. which have gained not only nationalism but also international publicity. In this connection, the committee discussed the draft Law on State Support and the Features of the Functioning of the Children's Centres “Artec” and “Young Guard” yesterday at a government meeting and unanimously decided on the need to adopt it as a basis and as a whole. In doing so, it is worth stressing that the legislative proposals of the government to determine that the State is buying 90 percent of the trips to Artek and 100 percent of the trips to the Young Guard are timeless. Moreover, the position on the release of VAT travel operations is also very important. The situation, legally fixed with regard to the property and land of the children’s centers, is very timely. I'm a long way from thinking that the law will solve all the problems, but today it's just necessary. And I am confident that he will allow, along with the Act of Amendments to the State Budget for 2009, to solve the most pressing problems of these children's health centers. [[on the financing of children's centres]] I'm not going to remind you, dear fellows, of the historical educational and social gains of these centers, of which, thank God, enough has been said in the last days at all levels of government and the media, and not only in Ukraine. So I ask everyone to support the committee's decision: to adopt this law as a basis and as a whole. Moreover, yesterday, the government also adopted two decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers, which also solve all the problems of Artek at the same time. That's true.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u56	Thank you, Paul Ivanovich. Any questions for the reporter? There's a question. Please log in. Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u57	Dear reporter, I have a question like this. Please tell me, isn't it wiser for us not just the Young Guard, the Artek, but to ask questions in general in the Supreme Council a lot wider? Should we really think about healing our children and especially those living in rural areas in Chernobyl? Because neither “Artec” nor “Young Guard” children of peasants fall under no conditions nor tax nor duty. How can we get the Supreme Council to demonstrate the support of the entire system of recovery of Ukrainian children during the holiday season? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u58	Thank you for asking. I would like to remind you that today we are adopting two bills that apply to youth centres, "Artec" and "Young Guards". But I would like to remind you that in the last call, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a law that deals with the support of all children in all of Ukraine's health centres. But today the form of ownership of these children's centres “Artek” and “Young Guards”, it is state-owned, that is, we make it state-owned. But the law is, it's practically adopted unanimously by the Supreme Council, but we need to take steps to get it to work. And we're going to have all the kids in these institutions, and we're going to get better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u59	Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u60	Dear Paul Ivanovich, if possible, please elaborate on the offer. As I understood it, from the Cabinet of Ministers during the interseasonal season to propose to use the Artek base as a special training centre for the Olympics and the Paralympics. What does this mean, does it need any additional funds to decorate? Does this mean that the bases that are, for example, Eupatoria and other cities of Crimea will not be used? Will it ever be used in a harmonious way together? I mean, do you see it, and do we support it or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u61	Thank you for the very right question. On Saturday, two decisions were taken at the government's next meeting, which are relevant to the children's centres – both Artek and Young Guards. First of all, it refers to this withdrawal from the reserve fund of 30 million dollars. Second, it refers to the fact that "Artek" takes effect as a national base of Olympic preparation. There are 22 bases for national Olympic preparations in Ukraine. And the 23rd base that Artek is actually going to be is going to give our athletes up to 16 years old the opportunity to load this training center. Because Artek has a unique opportunity, it has 18 playgrounds, it has five indoor swimming pools, it has a sports palace, it has an opportunity to welcome those athletes who reach 16 years of age in the middle of the season. And it was in the winter, in the spring and autumn, that we took the kids to load this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u62	The wheel of Yuri Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u63	Thank you. Please pass the word to Sulkovski Pavlov Gnatovich. Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u64	I have a question for you. Please tell me, however, when you voted in favour of the 2009 budget, and you threw those camps out. And she voted in full with Julia Timoshenko, the prime minister who applauded and spoke, “Litvina Block”, 20 deputies, our Ukrainians, a few dozen. What, did you provoke this situation, forget these kids, and today you're saying that you're already patriots, that the Prime Minister has already found the funds for "Artec" and "Young Guard"? Where are your consciences, to which time will you mock the people of Ukraine? I think it's pure populism. It's not true that those taken from the reserve are simply manipulated by Prime Minister Julia Timoshenko. I think it's the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u65	Thank you. I'm sorry for the questions. I asked you a question about today's situation, the Committee made proposals in time to increase funding in 2009 to the children's centre, Artek, to 100 million dollars. The Ministry of Family, Youth and Sports has made proposals for funding of 60 million dollars for the purchase and implementation of budget travel. But given what we have adopted today, not us, but the government has decided Saturday to transfer the youth centre “Artec” to the Ministry of the Family, Youth and Sports, and before that was in the sphere of the administration of the State Administration, the State Administration has not made any proposals to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to increase funding for the young children's centre “Artek” and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, including.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u66	Sit down, Paul Ivanovich, please. Dear colleagues, since Vladimir Mikhailovich has announced a 15-minute extension, we don't fit in with all three questions, I'm putting to the vote the proposal to continue the work before deciding on the three agenda issues that we're considering. I'd like to make up my mind. [[18:16:35]] For 345. Decision taken. We will work until we have decided on the three issues that have been discussed. I invite you to report to the First Deputy Minister of Finance of Umanski Igor Ivanovich on the draft Law on Amendments to Ukraine's 2009 State Budget Act, number 3687.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u67	Good afternoon! The honourable chairman, the honourable national deputies, the report, if you please, I will do very briefly. The bill proposes to increase travel costs for the International Children's Centre, Artek, from 19 million. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure for the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January to 30 June. the amount of money, i.e. the increase in expenditure on this article, is equal to 60 million dollars. That's right. It is proposed that this decision be made on the basis of a partial redistribution of funds by existing State budget programmes of almost 15 million. Money and about 45 million dollars on account of fund balances in a treasury account. It is also proposed to add a standard according to which the International Centre “Artek” and “Young Guard” will not pay, like the rest of the state-owned enterprises, 15 per cent of the deduction of part of the revenue that is accrued to all state-owned enterprises. Asking him to support the bill, to approve it in the first reading and in general. Thank you. If you have any questions, you are ready to answer them.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u68	Any questions for Igor Ivanovich? No questions, sit down, please. It's Mikola Ivanovich. A report from the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u69	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies, honored ones! The committee considered a bill proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers to amend the 2009 Act on the State Budget of Ukraine. [[on the allocation of additional funds in the amount of 60 million dollars to the Ministry of Family Affairs, Youth and Sports under the budget programme “Health and Recreation of Children in Artek Children’s Health Camps” and “Young Guard” for the purchase of travel to the International Children’s Centre “Artek” and the implementation of the President’s decree]] An increase of 14.7 million dollars is proposed on the basis of a reduction in expenditure approved by the State Budget for 2009 to the State Administration, as well as an increase of 45.3 million dollars from the balance of the budget. The proposed bill is balanced with regard to budgetary indicators. According to the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, the draft can be adopted as a basis for consideration in the first reading. The adoption of this bill will allow for the full-year recovery of orphans, children deprived of parental care, children with disabilities, children with many children and low-income families, children of military personnel, journalists and workers of internal affairs bodies who have died in the performance of their duties, as well as children of dead miners, talented and gifted children in the world-wide Artek International Children's Centre. Dear colleagues, the committee has decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt this bill as a basis and generally as a law. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u70	Thank you, Mikola Ivanovich. Any questions for the reporter? There's a question. Please sign in. Please, Matthew Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u71	That's how I pass it on. Ah, please pass on the word Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u72	Thank you. Mikolo Ivanovich, you remember my long-term income to you and the request for a solution to the financing issue of Artek. Not only did I go to you, but I went to Matvijczuk Vladimir Makarovich and so on. I just want to say wish you, not even the question that if we could listen to each other, to each other's experience, we wouldn't create such conditions when teachers don't get it from October of the month. Educators do not receive a salary when the water is turned off, the light is turned off. And that's why it's just my suggestion: we're, I think, working a lot more, no matter what, so let's think about not just being wise and experienced, but listening to others.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u73	Thank you. Dear colleague, I've agreed with you on all matters, and I've agreed to do so today. But one request from all the deputies: we know that the budget code contains an article that must be respected and proposed to increase the budget costs in the most important way. No one objected to any issue, the room took action, make proposals – make proposals to increase the income part of the budget. For 300 billion, proposals were made to increase the budget. I gave an example last time: only one MP made a proposal to increase the income portion of the budget. And here is all our efforts today, I must say, should be aimed at the implementation of the income part of the budget, and I know that teams are now no longer allowed to be budgeted by individuals. So let's do the budget together, which, and we have the opportunity, and we said we're going to review in April, and the amount that was originally set -- 19 billion, millions, of course, was very small, but enough to finance for three months.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u74	The sand is Ivan Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u75	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. I am sure that this problem with "Artec" would not have been and would not have been a problem with other moments. This is the first shade. Second shade. Our faction supports the allocation of funds to Artek, but we have a question: where does it guarantee that these funds will be used for purposes, as necessary, and they will not be stolen again? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u76	The functions of the budget committee I think that if we have such issues, we have the office, the Audit Office, there is the Court of Auditors, let's get these funds under control.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u77	Kseniya Mikhailevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u78	Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine”. Mikolo Ivanovich, the answer of the previous speakers is that it is on your committee that the demonic power that has lost all these wonderful suggestions that both the minister and the profile committee have made. It scares me, what's going on in your committee? And if you say it, you're absolutely right to notice that you have to have sources, which is exactly what we're funding. What's changed this month? Or maybe we've improved our economic situation, maybe we've had our taxes plummeted into the budget, because then we haven't been able to find the 30 million that's essentially a small number, and today they're found. What's changed? What they strike is, in fact, teachers, so now we're going to have every funding through strikes to organize, the system doesn't work, there's some systemic problem. Like, in your opinion, how do we get out of this situation, because that's how we're going to strike from the strike to make changes to the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u79	Dear colleagues, this year will be extremely unusual, you know that today's financial crisis may raise questions. You remember on the Supreme Council here we have been reporting all the issues that have arisen and have not been resolved in the committee. He should say that the Committee had considered the issues raised and the decisions taken by all committees, but the vote had shown exactly the figures that had been named. None of the representatives on the committee know all the factions on the question of Artek, I must say, this is the first. The second is about where the sources came from. You have heard that, as at 1 January, at the treasury account, the balance of funds from the Ministry of Finance as a source for dealing with this issue is 2 billion 100, of which 45.3 were on trips and 14 separate articles on the programmes of the Administration of Affairs. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u80	Thank you, Mikola Ivanovich! Have a seat, please. In accordance with the decision of the Supreme Council, we are discussing three projects at the same time. I'm asking you to sign in. Please, Karpuk Vladimir Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u81	Vladimir Karpuk faction “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense”, group “For Ukraine”. Our faction supports this important bill on financial support for the Children's International Centre “Artek” and the Youth Centre “Young Guard”. But at the same time, we need to pay attention to the fact that the problem of child recovery does not remain extremely important in the country and this is one of the issues that the State should go back to. There are many problems in the economic mechanism of the operation of this international children’s center. And really, they need to pay attention to keeping these unique centers as health centers, as culture, and only one question is that there will be the center of the Olympic Paralympic sport. But if you don't know the money for "Artec," then you don't have the same funding as those centers, you have to take that into account. In general, we have the financing and the healing of children, and the health of children, there are many problems left, and God forbid, for a year, there are more force majeure conditions that we can fund at the expense of such international publicity. In general, the faction supports and urges everyone to support these bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u82	Petrenko Vadim Mihajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u83	Peter, the faction of the "Julia Tymoshenko". Please pass the word to Oleg Laszko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u84	The “Julia Tymoshenko Block” quickly responded to the complex situation that has taken place around the “Artec”. And today, in the Supreme Council, we are looking at draft amendments to the State Budget Act, which allocates sixty million dollars to the purchase of travel tickets for children from low-income families for their rest in the Artetica. There were questions from our opponents, said the government-populists were coming, because the Block of Lithuania and who led to the Hand of Artek. Let's answer these questions. Artek was in office until Saturday, while the Cabinet of Ministers made the appropriate decision, he was in the administration of State administration. Let's look at the amount of funding for the State Administration for the current year 2009, almost a billion dollars to support the President's activities, his apparatus, the officials on the ground. In any district administration, even where 10,000 residents in the area of five deputy heads of the district administration, and for “Artek” money in the DUSI, there was not enough. Now, about where the government of Timoshenko was. On July 11, 2008, the Government of Timoshenko in the Supreme Council initiated a bill to amend the Budget Act. The bill offered 47 million dollars for the financing of Artek and the Young Guard, for the purchase of travel, I stress, but the project was voted on in July 2008. But the bill was not voted in favour of either the Party of Regions or part of “Our Ukraine” controlled by President Yushchenk, the so-called “One Center”. As a result, tens of thousands of Ukrainian children, orphans, few protected, and unsecured families were left without the support of the state as a result of the position of representatives in Parliament. Children were left unattended, unable to rest. Today, the government is correcting the mistakes made by the President and the State Administration in matters that care for the ball, setting up the Vienna Balls, where thousands of guests who fly continuously across borders, which are 200 million – Arsenal, 250 million – Baturin, the Hehtman capital, 150 million – the Marian Palace, and there is no "Artek" for children of Ukrainian money. Thanks to the government of Tymoshenko, the situation is rectified today and children have a future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u85	Bev Valeriy Ananiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u86	Leonid Ivanovich Grač.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u87	Please, Leonid Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u88	To be honest, I did not want to spend the night watching tragic comedy play here, but the last speaker told us so much that it was the opposite. I went to this rostrum on the artekov problem and hit the nabba and the bell tower in May 2008, when, led by Ekaterina Chumachenko, she and Yushchenko, under her inspiration, began the historic spiritual vandalism, when she was beaten by the same Novožilovás, who today’s “Yaroslavna’s cry” began at the beginning of the Order. And warned me that it would end in bankruptcy. I know a little more than you all know what's going on in Crimea. And those who say they don't need to be assigned to the D.A.'s office have to, half the facilities are gone, I mean, from the point of view of who they belong to. The relationship between Artek and Glinia or Brežev's dowry needs to be addressed, and much more, there is something even more serious to work on. But I'd like to talk about someone else. What are we going to embarrass ourselves to, to what extent? It took a year and a half for all the media to pass on for the Order and for destroying Artek and for two years, seven years and eight years, on a balance basis, by statute, the tax rate has already been shown as a loss-making enterprise. What we have done is, after a team of laborers, and I've been dating him for a week and a half, I've come up with what's called an arteka veteran to say: we're 84 years used to being silent, listening, and now we're starting to talk. When the working group rose up, when it was supported by the public and, above all, by the Russian, such composers and singers as you have all seen, and politicians, and then suddenly we have vowed here, as we love Artek, and we will save. We are miserable in front of our country, in front of our history. As for Arteca, those who love to talk about national sovereignty, independence and so on, you are keeping those prides that are known to the world, not waiting for Samantha Smith's mother to write a letter about what must be protected by Artek. That's what I'd like to say. First. That there will be no end and no end, despite the fact that we will make all these decisions today. They're gonna have to fight for them. The thief who was stationed there and the thief who had already examined all the sites and swimming pools and daci and hotels on Artek territory would simply not comply. Therefore, it is not simply necessary to record that the Public Prosecutor's Office is in control, but to return to this issue at all times from the point of view of verification. And I think we should pack.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u89	Leonid Ivanovich, please finish. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u90	Moreover, the package should vote on all three decisions. And the last. In the ruling that Catherine Semenovna's project, I ask, began with spiritual vandalism, with historical vandalism, must be protected. I request such an order, a proposal to protect, there is a recommendation to the Cabinet of Ministers and beyond, to protect the historical monuments located on Arteca territory and to return the Order to the main chair of Arteca. Then we'll do it in an orderly fashion.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u91	Herman Hanna Mikolayevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u92	You know, your honorary colleagues, when I was listening here right now to a representative, not a previous speaker, but a representative of the governing coalition, and listening to him again spilling dirt on another branch of power, I realized that they didn't understand anything from today. And it's a good thing that the Party of Regions insisted that on Thursday they come together and not spill dirt on each other, but they said to themselves everything they thought, and that people see not half their faces, but their faces completely, and that people will always understand that it's not the faces of the people. Because instead of talking today about how to save the pearl that Ukraine had and which, "Artek", is Ukraine's brand. This is what our nation should be proud of and show the world: look what we have. It could have been an area of tolerance for the children of all Post - Soviet space, where children from the countries with which we had once been together were to come and learn to live in respect for each other. We could raise generations of future nations that would never be hostile to one another. Here's what we had. And here's what we've lost because of this powerlessness. The government, which did not provide for a single line in the budget for the financing of Arteca, and the Party of Regions insisted. [[B in m in s a l in]] We're hearing today that the orphan children's government sends, you see, to Artek, but the government doesn't say that the orphans in Artec are only resting in the winter at their expense. You know, I've never been to Artec, because I was from a simple family, but I was a girl from my school -- a round summer orphan in Artec. She came, and we were all proud, because "Artek" was a legend, it was something that could not be destroyed and that she did not destroy and the power that was called totalitarian and destroyed by democratic power, because democratic power cannot possibly eat land in Crimea. Therefore, dear friends, the Party of Regions and the Communist Party will also never allow you to tear apart the land of Artek, will never allow you to destroy this brand. We're going to force you to turn "Artec" into an area of tolerance for all the children of Post-Radians space, we're going to go back to that idea, we're going to stand back, and your chances are going to be zero.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u93	Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u94	There's probably no happiness, that's what happened. Obviously, this was to be the case, so that the noninitiation of the budget did not trigger this kind of conversation. I'm really sorry that Anna Mikolayevna is leaving us, but I want to tell you, let's stop pharisaizing and take off our masks. The problem with Artek is that there are 213 acres of gold and precious land! And you know what the biggest problem is? In that there is still no witness to this land’s right! Do you know why not? Because the Gurzuf Village Council is headed by a Gurzuf village head, members of the “Party of the Regions” refuse to execute and issue such an act! [[Applause]] You don't go to the Attorney General's Office, you go to your party members and then you don't have to set up comedy here. The problem is that we're saying one thing, for internal use, and here we go out and start cursing people, talking nonsense. Take off your masks and vote for today’s decree! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u95	Dry Jaroslav. Do you want to do it again? Please, National Deputy Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u96	Oleg Blasko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Our opponents just told us that the Party of Regions insisted on a separate line in the budget for "Artek," and, you see, we didn't support it. So I want to remind you that no vote has been given for the 2009 budget, even 19 million, even small money, but for 3 months in Artec. And the last. In view of the fact that a democratic power there cannot eat the Crimean land. I don't know if any of the democratic authorities have a plot in Crimea, but I do know that there's a daughter of Viktor Yanukovic in Nikita's Botanical Garden, and she's made into orphans. So let's give this house and this part of the garden of Nikita to the orphans, give it to the same "Artec," we'll create another pioneer camper there, at the same time. Every vacationer in Crimea travels to see this cottage.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u97	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u98	Dear colleagues, “Artek”, “Youth Guard” for Ukraine is as much a card as Anthonova’s ANTC as “Turboat”, Malisheva’s factory, “Motor Sich” as Veryovka’s ensemble, Vírski. But for us today, the question that we are considering is not just one of our health - care providers, let it be large and with such world importance and memory, for us, it is a lacuna paper on how we view society’s aspects of our childhood. And what do we hear here today from the authorities? One ends up being the Prime Minister of Ukraine good, but we don't mind. The second one went out to the rostrum, the young MP, 58 seconds screaming, talking. What are we talking about now? Who in Gurzuf is the boss, or somewhere in Borschev Curtkowski, or in the Ternopil region? What we're talking about today is that we're continuing the vicious practice of patching holes in the social sphere. Yes, today it has happened that the protest of the Artek workers has erupted. Dear colleagues, in 2008 none of the national health programs — the fight against tuberculosis, diabetes, and oncology — were fully funded. We're down, you're talking about the budget, we're asking -- our committee, 69 million dollars to complete the construction of two houses for people who are homeless, homeless, we didn't get that money. Funding of the State’s programme to combat childlessness and homelessness has been undermined. I received a letter from the boy’s parents today. A literate boy who is capable of a serious illness in the district of Tevrov. Colleagues, don't you get the same letters that you need to save your children? Well, we're now going to spend the money to keep Artek going, and it's flourishing, and it's working, and so on. Will we eventually return to the social sphere with our faces or will we continue to crawl into the fabric of politics and demagogies? I am very sorry for these two Ukrainian national deputies, who I thought would make specific suggestions on how we should proceed so that there are no further such problems. Well, what, tomorrow the TBs get up against the walls, demand redemption? Instead of figuring out how to live our lives, we'll find out who said who to whom the raspil, who's smart, who's beautiful. Is that what society expects of us today? And to the end. A number of State Budget programs are not being funded today. I want to tell you, if we don't do economics, if we don't go face to face with the real economy, all our powers will be reversed. We have to work for the host.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u99	Volinec Eugene Valeriyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u100	Please pass the word to Grac Leonid Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u101	Leonid Ivanovich Graz. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u102	Dear colleagues, once again, I say that there is no need for pharisaism. I also address the young colleague Knazević. In order to understand the poverty of this power, go to one of the sanatoriums of the Ministry of Ukraine, to any one in the Eupatoria where the cerebellars, the children, are being treated, and you will know that three bracelets have been allocated to this power for days. So what are you talking about? And the second. Thank you to Gurzufski's head, who, at the risk of his life, did not give up those scrap metal bandits who did not want 213, but 416 hectares of land by the sea of artekovo to tear apart. Only the absence of this act on earth has prevented this land from being torn apart and given the opportunity to have such a serious conversation today in the Supreme Council and from such a high rostrum. I ask you all once again, if we have at least one piece of conscience left, let us vote today on what is being voted on, ready from the point of view, and vote in favour of the Ekaterina Semenovna draft with the addition that I have made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u103	Kilincarov Spiridon Pavlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u104	The distinguished people's deputies, judging from the discussion that took place in this room, I understand that everyone has already agreed, in principle, that all three of these projects must be voted on. That's why I think it's up to the kids to be quiet, to decide, to vote, to make money, and not to build a pierre on it, who did it. I am absolutely sure that if we were going through a normal budgetary process, if all political parties were to take account of each other's views and listen to each other's opinions, I think we would be able to resolve all these issues within the framework of the budget. Unfortunately, this political situation today and I don't think it will be right for anyone to build a pyrotry on the problems that are in Artek today. I turn to the Minister for what has been allocated today is certainly good, but I would like to see the interests of all regions taken into account in the distribution of these travels. And in the pre-election campaign, someone would not have tried with the millions who had allocated to Artek, not to try to build another election campaign, allowing travel to selected regions for individual categories of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u105	Lucien's Catherine Eugene, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u106	Dear colleagues! I'm not one of those folk artists who comes out of the rostrum and thinks of everything. But fate led me to the Supreme Council, and I was in Artek last year, and to the Youth Guard, so I know the situation, not from the outside, but from the inside. I'd like to give you just a few facts. From year to year, children’s rest periods are declining, so the amount is decreasing, it’s clear, and in three years out of 11,000 we buy almost two. A month ago, the President issued a decree of support for Artek, but the financial wish on paper was no longer expressed. And what is the solution to the “Artec” land issue worth solving? Within two years, there were 600 court hearings and questions about the alienation of the Artemian land. Artecologists have been able to prevent the sale of our coastal zone, but where can we guarantee that this is the final solution? In April 2007, the Crimea Master Court was already trying to conduct a bankruptcy procedure for Artek. One of the reasons for this was the debt of a camp to a company called Professional at $88,000. The debt was extinguished, but the history of bankruptcy lasted until January 2008. Artek's employees are afraid that this will not all be over, so I'm just calling on all my colleagues. We don't have any winners on this issue. We're all to blame: both the left and the right. We have to be silent, with our eyes down to vote unanimously on funding and never allow this situation to develop again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u107	Bodnar Olga Borisovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u108	Thank you. Olga Bodnar, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues, you're asking how to save "Artek," the answer is very simple, in this determination from my colleague Catherine Samuelk and the draft laws passed by the Cabinet of Ministers. The redesign of Artek took place in Kuchma's time, and since then the children of Ukraine have been given the minimal opportunity to rest at some time and only in winter in some small amount, because in the summer, the honourable, the cost of traveling to Artek was over $3,000 in 2008. It's hard to even imagine what we're going to be worth right now. Not one penny or more of the money that was collected, they didn't get into Artek, so that's what happened with Artek. Unfortunately, no one really supported it, most in the room did not support the budget changes proposed by the government and there was no adequate funding at Artek in the budget as early as July. But I have the impression, you know, that some citizens of the Russian Federation, particularly Cobzon, are more patriotic and caregivers of Artec than some of our opposition representatives. It's too early to kill Artek. Dear, the “Artek” remains and will remain the pearl of Ukraine, which everyone will be proud of. All those who speak declare the support of the “Artec” so let us now demonstrate it by our vote, show how we care about “Artek”, how we love him, how we care about the rest of the children, let us vote all together here, because I have not heard from any speaker any negative details about how he does not love children or does not love “Artek”. I call on everyone to support the decree and the bill from the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u109	Matthew Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u110	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think in this heat of discussing this very acute problem we have heard the main thing, the situation that has arisen around Artek, in particular the need to correct it urgently. In this, I think we're the only ones in this room today. More convincingly, my colleagues Katerina Seminalna Samojlik and Leonid Ivanovich Grač spoke about this, so let us, honourable colleagues, conclude this discussion and we will vote in favour of the proposed draft regulations and laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u111	Checheva Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u112	Please pass the word to Blackmore. Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u113	Dear colleagues! I worked in Yaltinsk ten years ago, and I remember the beginning of the problem when the reconstruction began at Camp Artek. The reconstruction was, unfortunately, not from the State budget at the time, but from the sponsoring contributions of Ukrzaliznica, other commercial entities. But then it wasn't too bad, but it was still repairing the shells. Thereafter, in the early 2000s, strong Ukrainian statesmen came and began their policy of taking over the territory. Here it sounded in the hall that the Gurzuf village head had assigned the land to the case. He was under a lot of pressure. The State act had been unlawfully formulated. But here's what I'm going to say about what didn't happen here. There are about 200 families living in Arteca, people who once worked there who received housing. They were not allowed to privatize this housing. They are in the same position today. There's a conflict with the citizens, that's not much anybody's been talking about and nobody's talking about today. The issue must also be addressed in parallel. For this reason, I have asked for the floor only, and I wish to say that of the three bills, a government bill must be adopted only on first reading and all these additions must be taken into account for citizens who live on other issues. Because we've started praying on the theme "Arteca," believe me, for me as a yultan and for other residents of the city, it's not very beautiful. We just have to solve the problem, not do it, get political dividends out of it. The problem must be addressed not only this year, as Leonid Ivanovich rightly said, but also for the future. And what started out as a derby, I had to fly on a plane behind the back of Director Arteca and tell him how well he was living there and who he was going to give the land to. I'm not calling my last name. And that should be taken into account. I repeat, therefore, on first reading, only a government bill. Add all the additions later. The Ekaterina Semenovna project is also pleased to take a full decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u114	Thank you. The time for discussion is up. I invite you to speak to Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u115	Dear colleagues, I propose today to support the three documents that are offered. And I'm convinced that despite all the remarks that have been made here, we have to vote in the first and in general. Because as we leave in the first reading today, we don't know when we'll be back. If they're fresh, good ideas, we'll make it up to you. Second position. I talked to Catherine Seminevna, and I think it's necessary to strengthen the decision that she proposed, in part of the inclusion of the Court of Auditors, because we always, according to Ukrainian tradition, have, when we are in trouble -- we are united, everything, and, so let's give the money, let's solve it. I have a question, and why has it been that in recent years mediators have sold these travels at such fantastic prices as Ukrainian children?Oh, my God! What are you talking about?Oh, my God! This has turned into some special elite, unknown to whom a subordinate unit, where pricing policy was not subject at all to any rational explanation. So we need to check for financial and economic activities. What did the State Administration do, who was in charge there in such a way that travel to the Ukrainian camp was sold by international, foreign, intermediate structures and could not be bought in Ukraine at all?Oh, my God! So my first proposal, I'm voting on three papers: two bills in the first and in general, in Catherine Seminovna's decree, we're joining the House of Accounts in order to get back to that question. Because we're actually solving the story with "Artec" per year. And he's not a year old, he's got to keep working. So the committee will then look at the situation. Catherine Semenovna is absolutely right, and the government program needs to be approved, because it's not an annual problem. And then we're going to listen to the government program, and we're going to analyze how our guidelines here and our proposals by law and by decree are being implemented. So once again, we're voting on three bills. I asked you to take account of the House of Accounts. And we vote first and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u116	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. As far as the Court of Auditors is concerned, I want to inform you that the Head of the Supreme Council has given such an order to the Court of Auditors last week, which is why it already works. Is there a problem with the vote? Dear colleagues, by procedure I see two hands of two deputies. There'll be no objection if I give them my word, and we won't make a record. Will it? Then let's log in with the procedure, please. Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u117	Please pass the word to Chechtov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u118	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u119	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues! It's not all we take fast, it's good. You remember the market fee you received, the government asked. Raised hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs to their feet, the compound for expression almost fell to the ground. Then they also accepted from the candace, although Julia Vladimirovna justified herself, she said, “This is the Supreme Council”. Not the Supreme Council, but the governing BIT coalition has changed the transport tax, practically placing hundreds of thousands of war veterans on colleagues. Now again with regard to the government bill. There are corrupt loopholes, there is no contact with the legislation, it can only be adopted on first reading, further by a reduced procedure within a week. It can't be accepted on two readings. The expert management of the stone did not leave the bill on the stone. What are we doing to make them laugh again tomorrow, and Julia Vladimirovna said that the Supreme Council had taken something wrong again?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u120	Bondarenko Volodymir Dmitrovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u121	“Julia Tymoshenko’s Block”. Vladimir Bondarenko. I'm just shocked and surprised by the behavior of individuals and individual political forces in this room. All these days you've been shouting, voting for the need to save, to save Artek, by the way, knowing that you didn't give a vote for his funding during the budget process. Today you went out to this rostrum, you called for the preservation of Ukrainian children and all that, and now you're consciously endorsing this issue so that it's never voted at all. This document went through the resection itself, went through all the miners -- and the public discussion, and the party, and the faction, and in this room. Let's vote and, if you'll excuse me, don't be silly!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u122	Lucien’s Catherine Eugeneva
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u123	I ask you to make my proposal for parliamentary control in the draft decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u124	I'm so sorry. Please, we're not bringing anything anywhere.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u125	I understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u126	When we vote the verdict as a basis, then you'll be your proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u127	Your Honor, let me finish. People have a right to say that I'm the same national MP as everyone else. So I ask you not to forget about my proposal: to bring to the draft ruling the issue of parliamentary control, which I emphasized when the minister spoke. Because we get such that some suggestions are forgotten, while others, for some reason, stress five times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u128	Samolikka Katerina Seminovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u129	Thank you very much. Dear fellows, let us not delude ourselves, and, after all, let us not deceive those people who are now listening to us in the Crimea in "Artech". These are people who, you know, have given their whole lives and youth to "Artec." I suggest, there was an offer: to vote in a package for all the bills -- first. If we don't vote in the first and second readings today, what happened in the summer when we weren't supported in making changes to Ukraine's budget, and then we're surprised, and why are these expensive commercial travels? But because you're honorable, whether you're special or not, I don't know, but you pushed for travel to the market to be abused. I specifically said "to the market" and therefore, dear colleagues, let us be responsible for our actions, for what I have said.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u130	Serbian Yuri Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u131	Dear colleagues, I can only say, let's finally vote, let's talk more about what we're doing.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u132	Thank you. I just want to say, the national MPs are honored that we are working in accordance with the procedure approved by the Rules and your wishes. If no one had any questions, no need to speak, no questions asked, they would have voted long ago.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u133	I'm sorry, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, I don't want to criticize anyone here, but I don't want us to give false information. I'm studying the documents, and I have before me the conclusion of the scientific and scientific department, where there is no stone left on the stone. So the scientific and expert department fully supports this bill. And two editorials. Not editorial, but text editing gives everything: once mentioned, this relief “Artec” in the main part is not mentioned in Appendix One. A very serious observation can be taken into account. And the second thing we didn't mention. We told you where we're taking the money, and we didn't see that we're taking things out of the state administration program. Well, let's not lie to each other. If that's such a serious point, we've adopted bills with ten notes from the science department. This is full support for the bill by scientific and scientific authorities. And we need to vote and not politicize the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u134	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, do not commentators insist on concluding? Don't insist. So we can go to the vote. I am voting for adoption in the first reading of the draft Law on State Support and the Features of the Functioning of the Children's Centres “Artek” and “Young Guards”, No3690. I'd like to make a statement. [[19:03:53]] For – 402 Decision taken. Your Honor, is there a point to this bill, or can it be voted on as a whole? There's a denial. In accordance with the Rules, I do not have the right to vote in general. So let's move on to making a decision. No warning? Is there no objection? People's deputies have no objection. I am voting on the adoption of draft Law No. 3690 on State support and the features of the Artek and Young Guard Children's Centres. I'd like to make a statement. [[19:05:01]] For 413 The law was passed in general. I'm voting for the adoption on the basis of the draft Ordinance on Urgent Measures for State Support of the International Children's Centre "Artek" and the State Enterprise "Ukrainian State Center "Youth Guard". I'd like to make a statement. [[19:05:37]] For 417 Decision taken. During the presentations, there were suggestions regarding the text of the decree. Please, National Deputy Lukyanova, now your proposal for the text of the decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u135	My proposal to the text of the decree is like this. Give up parliamentary control, if. [[Now, one minute.]] “The State Authority, authorized to implement the travels of the Children's Centre “Artek” and “Young Guards” should provide a quarterly plan for the implementation of travel by population groups to the Committee on Family Affairs, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism, and to report to the twentieth number of the reporting period on the implementation of the implementation plan.”
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u136	Please, Catherine Semenovna, your opinion as the author of the Decision Project.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u137	Dear colleagues, dear Katruzia, I have clearly and clearly written down the provision of the Decree that control should be placed on the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on family issues, youth, sports and tourism, and that means that the comprehensive control, you will control everything, not just travel, but everything. Please accept that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u138	You got it? Is there no objection to being put together? There's no objection. I am voting on the adoption of Decree-Law 3690 as a whole on urgent measures in support of the International Children's Centre, Artek, and the Ukrainian State Enterprise Youth Guard. I'd like to make up my mind. Take off the vote, please. Leonid Ivanovich Player's proposals, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u139	I was making a proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u140	Please have suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u141	I'm making proposals. The first point, where to recommend the Cabinet of Ministers and then “to resolve matters that are subordinated. [[This is from Alexander Victorovich, who led me to the point where I defended my right.]] I propose in the first paragraph that we write: “protect historical monuments located in the Arteka territory and oblige the management of Arteka to return the Order to the main stela of Arteka”. I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-03-m1.u142	Leonid Ivanovich Grač's proposal, made by him from the rostrum, I put it to a vote. Please offer Leonid Ivanovich Player. [[19:08:47]] For 245 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 142, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 66, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” – 3, Communists – 27, “Litvina Block” – 7. Are there any other suggestions? I put to the vote the entire draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on urgent measures for the State support of the International Children's Centre “Artek” and the state-owned enterprise “The Ukrainian State Centre “Youth Guard”. [[No. 3690]] I'd like to make a statement. [[19:09:42]] For 361 Decision taken. The factions? Please. Region Party – 159, “block of Yulia Timoshenko” – 141, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense” – 15, Communists – 27, “Block of Lithuania” – 19. So let's move on to the final question of this package. I am voting on the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009 No. 3687. I'd like to make up my mind. [[19:10:34]] For 388 Dear colleagues, no objection to putting it all together? There's no objection. I am voting as a whole as a bill of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukraine Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009, number 3687. Please vote. [[19:11:10]] For 417 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I declare this plenary session closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., the morning plenary will begin.
