ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u1	Dear national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Council" system. [[10:01:52]] There were 416 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of Ukrainian national deputies Lukyanchuk Ruslan Valeriyovich and Artem Viktorovich’s Psongka. Let us welcome our colleagues, wishing them success in important parliamentary activities and in good health. Dear colleagues, allow me to provide you with information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary on March 18, 2009. 18 questions of order were discussed as a result of consideration, 3 laws were passed, 11 bills were adopted as a basis, 1 bill was sent for re-reading, 3 bills were rejected. Dear colleagues, let us turn to the issues set out in the March 19 schedule. Now we have to consider draft decrees for the election of members of the committees of our fellow national deputies. I invite the chairman of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, to the rostrum. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u2	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, of 19 February 2009, issued at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the appointment of the Conciliation Council of 2 March to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the draft Decision of the Supreme Council for the election of the National Deputies of Vlastenek, Prutnik and Samofal, members of the Committees, considered the matter and decided: firstly not to support the proposal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Supreme Council of Lithuania, Vladimir Mikhailovich on the introduction of the draft Decision of the Supreme Council on the simultaneous election of the National Deputies of the President, Prutnik and Samofal, members of the Committee, but to consider and take decisions separately by each candidate; secondly to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine not to support the draft of the Supreme Parliament of the Supreme Council of the Supreme Council of the Council of the Supreme Council of the Judiciary. [[on the election of Prutnik as a member of the National Security and Defence Committee, releasing him from the duties of a member of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information]] [[on the election of the Ukrainian National MP Samofalov as a member of the Health Committee]] This is a matter of making decisions. With regard to the Samofalov project number 4082, the committee is requesting support for this decision, and we ask that we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, one minute! Come on, please. We have three draft regulations. I want to remind you of what the committee head, 2743, 4016, 4082, said about our colleagues, the national deputies of Vlasenko, Prutnik and Samofalova. Since the question has arisen, please write down 5 minutes after one minute before the vote. Alexander Vasilovich, thank you. I think that's it. Please sign up. People's MP Mokchan, faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u4	Please hand it over to Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u5	Ivan Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u6	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, once again in which I would like to remind you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, in whom I wish to remind you, has had a difficult start for the Supreme Council of today's vocation. And once two major factions have agreed to start working, you all know that we have four substitutes instead of two or one. We came up with a four - committee proposal: no preference on either side, although then a coalition and opposition were formed. But we agreed that the four committees should have parity so that there would not be an advantage on either side, including the Justice Committee. In connection with the rotations, we have violated this parity principle on individual committees in connection with the election of members of the government. We are loyal to our responsibility. Please support that the political arrangements that have been made are too serious. So we ask the hall to respond with understanding to our proposal at the Vlasenko College, to support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u7	Just a minute. Yes, please, who's next? It's not working, Mikhail Chechetov, please. He's handing over Ephraim, isn't he?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u8	Ephraim, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u9	Please, Alexander Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u10	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, we cannot and respected colleagues! We cannot replace the documents we accept every day by political means from the U.K.U.T. We have the Rules, and we must act clearly under the Rules. If we push one political force every day in violation of the Rules, then we will bring the entire country to political chaos, as they have brought the entire economy into our country today. Therefore, we cannot bear any criticism of the words of our colleague from BUT regarding the election of deputies under the previous agreement. Earlier agreement had been reached, it had been implemented once, and then the legislative instruments that we have in the Supreme Council began to work. And to replace political expediency, once again, all the time only for the sake of one political force, then we will not be the Supreme Council, then we will be another body that violates the laws that it adopts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u11	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u12	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! These political upheavals are getting tired of it. One thing we forget is that the Ukrainian national MP is the legislator and the lawmaker, we forget that and we don't want to understand that the role of the deputy should not be demeaned. Every MP has to work on a profile committee, it's not his right, it's his duty. That's the first one. And secondly, the deputy determines, and he has to determine his profile, his calling, his gesture, including his professional experience. And so when we don't let a national deputy work on that profiling committee he wants to work on, we disrespect him. We despise the role of Parliamentary and lead this to a “buttoncode”. I think we need to support all the proposals, personal, I stress, personal people's deputies for work on a professional professional professional committee. Otherwise, it's just politics.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u13	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u14	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. Dear National Deputies! Today, Ivan Grigorovich Cirilenko referred to the fact that a part of the MPs had broken out. That's absolutely true. Korniychuk, who became the first deputy minister of justice, worked at the Justice Committee. And so there's probably nothing complicated about another MP coming in. And I'll tell you that the situation on the committee can be completely understood by the presence of any deputy, the more a well-known lawyer. That's the first one. It's different. I support my colleague Zarubinski that we should look at and consider the wishes of the national deputy where we work. We have committees that are not gathered at all for political reasons. There I would advise and ask a colleague from the regulatory committee to tell us why they don't work. In another case, let us put to the vote and make decisions, let the deputies work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u15	National Deputy Olijnik, Timoshenko Yulia Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u16	Please give the floor to Kamchatno Valeri.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u17	Please pass it on to the People's Deputy of Kamchat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u18	Thank you. Kamchatny, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”, Kharkiv region. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'd like to ask you a question as to whether there's a consensus council. On what basis have the three bills on this subject been introduced, and my bill 4147, which also relates to this subject that I have made to carry out your commission? So I put in this bill to execute your commission with a packet of all three candidates to elect these committees. Yesterday the bill was considered at a meeting of the regulatory committee. But for reasons I don't understand, he's not on this list right now. This is a gross violation of the Rules. You can't look at those bills if there's another one. He needs to be involved now.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, we exchanged thoughts on this matter. Taras Cranwell, please, the last speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u20	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I'd like to ask you all very much, let's just move a little bit away from politics and remember. I'm specifically referring to a committee that asks him to appoint Gennady Samofalov. It's medicine, it's a medical committee where no one in particular bothers to work. Man does not change the committee, he does not just come to the Supreme Council. He chose a committee from which other hands and feet reflect, because that's where we have to work, and that's how we're supposed to say, it's not a twilight committee. I'm asking you, political auctions, political positions, we're going to take some kind of package vote later and further, I'm asking you very much for this candidacy, according to Gennady Samofal, let's just throw away some unnecessary nuances and just do one vote. It's just our basic attitude towards medicine, the committee where there are colossal problems, where work hands are needed, and where work is needed. I would very much like to support this candidature specifically.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u21	Dear people's deputies, we've exchanged thoughts, please. Let's do this, Comrade Kamchatny approached me, showed me a document that he claimed was considered and accepted at a meeting of the Rules Committee, but I want to say that I don't have any document on this subject and I would ask you, Your Honor, perhaps it's our misfortune that we've made political compromises and many interlocutors. Please find out on the committee and speak to a man on the committee. That's the first one. And the second. If we once again have such a coalition, there are two proposals, the first is to vote for each individual, the second sentence to vote for a person to join the committee is that of Samofal, who wants to go to the committee for the protection of motherhood, childhood and health. Or we could have another consultation and make an acceptable decision. I don't see any other compromises. Because there's only one statement about joining the committee, and two of our colleagues' statements about moving from one to the other committees, they're already working on the committees. So let's put it this way, let's put it this way. Please, please! As soon as we get started, it seems to me that conflicts arise, so find out on the committee. We can do that because there are three applications, in order to register them for the vote. There will be no decision, then another consultation. No objections? Depending on my registration, I'll put it to a vote. May I have your attention, please? This is a draft decree amending the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to elect the heads, the first deputies, the deputy heads, the secretaries, the members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Sixth Call and Election of the Head, the First Deputy, the Deputy Head, the Secretary and the members of the Special Supervisory Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization. Registration number, please note, 2743 on the election of Vlastenek Sergey Volodymyrovich as a member of the Justice Committee. Please vote. [[10:17:27]] For 207 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, second draft of the decree, by factions, please. Region Party – 0, “Timoshenko Block” – 147, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 40, Communists – 0, “Litvina Block” – 20. The second decision, registration number 4016, on the election of Prutnik Eduardo Anatoliyovich as a member of the Committee on National Security and Defence, and his release from the duties of a member of the Committee on Freedom of Word and Information. I'll bet you a vote. Please vote. [[10:18:26]] For 212 The decision is not taken. And third order, registration number 4082. About the election of Samochlav Hennady Grigorovovich as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health. Please vote. [[10:18:55]] For 225 The decision is not taken. I'm asking you, Your Honor, not to disturb the situation, please vote on everyone. I'm asking you, let's have a consultation like this, we're going to have a break today. Please. I'm asking you again, and then we'll come back, and I'm asking you faction leaders, please hold a consultation, so that we can make a decision first of all about the person who is required to work on the committee -- referred to as Gennady Samofalov. Then let's put it to a vote. There are no motives, please. What you want, what you're yelling at, calm down, please. To accommodate the situation, dear colleagues, let us welcome our colleague Viacheslav Kirilenka, who was born a son. And we will calm down, and we will continue to work and follow his example. All of it. Dear colleagues! Sit down, please. Taras Cranville called it his last name. Samofalov – he requires a replica. Please, a line.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u22	Dear colleagues! I understand the principle of political expediency, but this is the third time that the session considers whether I should be on the Health Committee? I participated three times in a committee meeting, saw terrible things, and today the people of Ukraine are dying. I confirm that only one and a half million people today have cancer and tuberculosis. Over the past two years, 260,000 people have died. So I would ask you anyway, I think it is the task of every national MP to put this work at the top of the table today, to preserve the population of Ukraine. I am prepared to do so, but unfortunately I do not have the right to vote on the committee in order to make a decision, to help Minhvod and all of us in order to save the population of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u23	Well, are we going to discuss this, or what? Let's do it this way. Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u24	Thank you. Martinuk is a faction of Communists. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I just want to use the 48th article of the Rules and ask you, because there really wasn't one card in our faction, but there were 225 votes, with our card working, there would be 226. Therefore, in accordance with Rule 48 of the Rules, I would like to return to the vote on Samobhlov's candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u25	Dear colleagues! Let's do it then. Please, can we just calm down for a minute? Then let's go this way. I will put to the vote the return of three decrees and vote each of these decrees in order to keep clean. It's simple, fellows of honor! I am voting on the return, please note, for the consideration of the draft Decree 2743 on the election of a member of the Justice Committee of the Vlastenek on the return to the ruling. Please vote [[10:22:51]] For 221 We did not return to the ruling. Now, if you'll excuse me! I am voting for the return to consideration of Order 4016 on the election of Prutnik Eduardo Anatoliyevich as a member of the Committee on National Security and Defence and the corresponding release of him from the duties of a member of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information. Please vote. [[10:23:32]] For 216 The decision is not taken. Where else is the decision? Calm down, please. Finally, I am voting for the return to the draft Decree 4082 on the election of Hennady Samofalov as a member of the Health Committee, please vote. [[10:24:12]] For 229 Decision taken. We're back in. The factions, please. I already welcomed Viacheslav Kirilenko on our behalf. Region Party – 173, “Block of Timoshenko” – 0, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 9, Communists – 27, “Block of Lithuania” – 20. I am voting on the draft Decree 4082 on the election of a member of the Health Committee, Gennady Samofalov. [[10:25:07]] For 229 Decision taken. A draft regulation on the establishment of a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the reform of the Ukrainian Security Service and its legislative security, as well as a draft regulation on the report of the head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the status of the functioning and staffing of the Ukrainian Security Service and the management of the assets that ensure its operation, has been announced for consideration. Registration numbers 4208, 4210. The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Sergey Greenewecki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u26	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, as requested, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security and Defence at its meeting on 18 March this year considered the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the reform of the Ukrainian Security Service and its legislative provisions submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Gricenko. The draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is based on the need to ensure that due parliamentary control is exercised and that the situation in Ukraine’s Security Service is affected by the failure to comply with Ukraine’s Constitution and laws. The National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine takes into account the proposals made by the Ukrainian Supreme Council for the composition of the temporary commission. The committee recommends that a second reading draft be considered and adopted as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, the proposals that came from the factions in exchange for national deputies to work on this committee have all been taken into account, and the quota principle has been respected. I am voting on the draft decision I have decided to set up a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of reform of the Ukrainian Security Service and its legislative security, registration number 4208. Please vote. [[10:27:33]] For 355 Decision taken. Please draft regulation 4210.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u28	According to the commission of the National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at its meeting on 18 March this year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine considered the first-reading draft of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree on the report of the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the status of the functioning and staffing of the Ukrainian Security Service and the management of the property that provides for its activities, registration number 4210. The development of a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine requires that due parliamentary control of the Ukrainian Security Service be exercised. The comments and proposals for a draft decision to the Supreme Council Committee on National Security and Defence have not been submitted. The committee recommends that a second reading draft be considered and adopted as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, before the project, it's a second reading, so, dear colleagues, there can be no suggestion. If anyone had written a letter, they were not counted. Then we'll have them.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u30	What was the deal?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, we have decided that we are taking two draft documents as a basis and, if anyone has a comment, please submit. There were no suggestions and no comments. Therefore, there is every reason to vote on acceptance. Please calm down, this is the second reading. On the adoption of the draft decree as a decision on the report of the head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the status of the functioning and personnel of the Ukrainian Security Service and on the management of the property that ensures its operation. Please vote. [[10:29:44]] For 349 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences on Improving Responsibility for Disposal of Trials and disrespect for the Court is being announced for consideration. Reporter Moisik Volodymyr Romanovich is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u32	Vladimir Moisik, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs. A second reading of the Law on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences on Improving Responsibility for Disposal of Trials and Disregarding the Court is brought to your attention. It is known that in the courts of Ukraine there are long - standing facts of the various categories of cases that take place as judges ’ fault, but in most cases not their fault. One of the main reasons for the interruption of court proceedings is not the appearance of a court hearing. Failure or failure to meet the legal requirements of the court for the provision of information, documents necessary for the timely and objective hearing of a court case by the appropriate persons is a number of violations by those involved in the trial. In connection with this president of Ukraine, amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences were proposed. But during the preparation of the paper for consideration in the second reading, the committee found the need to amend both the Criminal Procedure Code and the Code of Administrative Offences, the Administrative Code of Ukraine, which was amended by the authors of the legislative initiative. Dear colleagues, 32 legislative initiatives have been made to the project, 13 have been rejected, 13 have been taken into account, 5 have been partially counted, and one has been edited. Without notice after the completion of the project, the head of the Chief Legal Authority signed or called for a bill. The committee is asking to support the position of the committee under this bill and to adopt it as a law. Thank you for your attention. Now I'm ready to report on specific amendments to the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u33	Amendment number one. Vladimir Romanovich, are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u34	It's a mistake.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u35	Oh, no?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u36	Counted. This is the title of the bill, wrongly written: “refused”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u37	Are we gonna vote her or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u38	Don't worry, it's counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u39	You don't have to. Let's move on. Amendment of Yuri Karmazin, Sergey Mishchenka number 3. Are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u40	Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u41	He insists. Please, it's Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u42	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Yuri Carmazin. The point is that this amendment to the second edition of article 85, bearing the 3 badge, is actually taken into account by amendment number two, which was introduced by the Moysik People’s Deputy. Because he added a “disgusting exodus”, and that is what this was about in our amendment to the Mishchenko People's Deputy. We wrote: “no respect for judgment”, which was expressed in“ an evil escape from appearance”. So it had to be written here that it was counted, only essentially included in this part. Once again, it's included in Amendment 2. There's a plate here, so to speak, that doesn't exactly reflect adequately. That is why I do not insist on making this amendment. As for the other one, I have problems there, I'll tell you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u43	Thank you. Amendment number 4. Are you insisting? It is included in part, Yuri Anatolyevich. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u44	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Carmazine. It's actually partially accounted for. I just want to ask you a question. Here, Vladimir Romanovich, we made, when I made this amendment, I asked the question: That failure or failure to provide the court with timely information or documents necessary for judicial review is not part of the crime. And he insisted that in the absence of signs of crime, because otherwise there would be competition of two rules, and you're not cleaning up this competition -- on the contrary, you're creating. And we came to the conclusion that when Moskal and I filed a lawsuit about the illegality of being in office for two and a half years, we were unable to obtain a document on which he was actually performing his duties. I mean, it's just that a person's self-absorbed, you know, no one's given authority, and there's no responsibility, no responsibility. And we have to write it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u45	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich, dear colleagues! With regard to the duties of the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Mr. But it happened that Igor Drizcany was no longer in office, and Mr. Nastawajchenko carried out these duties from December 2006 until he was confirmed by us as head of the Ukrainian Security Service. But as for the record in the Code of Administrative Offences for the absence of signs of crime, this will have to be done in every article of the Code. And the committee found that to be wrong, so he considered the amendment only partially, Yuri Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u46	Shall we vote on her, this amendment? Do you agree? Thank you. Now it's amendment number five. Anatoly Seminoga, do you insist on her? No, it's not. Amendment 6, People's Deputies Pisarenko? No, it's not. Seven, too. Amendment 8, Igor Stick, do you insist? No, it's not. Ninth, Nicholas Catherinechuk, are you insisting on your amendment? No, it's not. Anatoly Seminoga, 12th Amendment? No, it's not. Oh, no? Yes, Pisarenko doesn't insist on 13th. The 17th Pisarenko does not insist. The 20th Pisarenko does not insist. Correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u47	Seventeen.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u48	So, the 30th amendment, the stick insists on it? No, it's not. And Pisarenko's 32nd amendment doesn't insist. All the amendments are thus taken into account. Dear colleagues, the committee suggests that we accept it as a law in the second reading and generally as a law. I would like to vote on the adoption of the second reading and generally as a bill amending the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences to improve the responsibility for dropping court proceedings and disrespecting the court. Registration number 3073, please vote. [[10:37:51]] For-195 The decision is not taken. I would like to vote on the second reading of draft Law 3073. [[10:38:15]] For 218. The law is rejected. The bill was rejected. I'll remind you, it was a bill from the President of Ukraine. The draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on State Biosafety in Creation, Testing, Transportation and Use of Genetically Modified Organisms is being published, second reading, registration number 2436, Anatoly Ivanovich Seminoga, head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u49	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! In accordance with the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 24 December last year, members of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster were assisted in the second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian laws in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on State Biosafety in Creation, Testing, Transportation and Use of Genetically Modified Organs, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Its aim is to bring Ukraine's laws into line with the Act adopted on 31 December 2007, "On the State Biosafety System in Creation, Testing, Transportation and Use of Genetically Modified Organisms". The proposals and comments made by the legislators did not reach the committee; the bill was accepted without notice by the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council. And the committee proposes to accept it as a law as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, there are no other suggestions? The draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on State Biosafety in Creation, Testing, Transportation and Use of Genetically Modified Organisms is put to the vote for adoption in the second reading and as a whole as a law. Registration number 2436. Please vote. [[10:40:44]] For 385 The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences on Strengthening Responsibility for Violations of the Regulations in Ukraine, registration number 2531, second reading, is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement, Victor Viktorovich Shemchuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u51	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences on Strengthening Responsibility for Violations of the Rules of Stay in Ukraine is being considered by the Committee on Legislative Security for the second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Administrative Offences. The bill provides for amendments to articles 204, 206. The Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, which will allow for a lower limit on the sanctions of these articles, without significantly increasing the limits of responsibility for violations provided for by the sanctions provided for in the articles listed in this Code. Today, there is a trend towards an increase in the number of violations by foreigners and stateless persons in Ukraine, as well as an increase in violations of legislation on the legal status of foreigners by legal and natural persons in Ukraine. Therefore, the adoption of the bill would allow for increased administrative responsibility for such actions that would help foreigners to break certain regulations in Ukraine, as well as help to resolve issues related to prevention and the fight against illegal migration. Four proposals were submitted to the draft law in preparation for the second reading by the legislators of the law, of which two were rejected, one being taken into account in full and one in part. At its meeting on February 18, this year, the committee adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a second-reading bill and, in general, as a law of Ukraine. National deputies of Ukraine are requested to support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u52	Amendment number one, Oleg Zarubinski. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Amendment number two, Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin. Are you insisting on her? So you don't insist on another? Fourth, please, amendment number four. Yuri Anatolyevich, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u53	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, the point of the fourth amendment is not only to change the fine but to change the approach. And Article 206 is prime. Put in a different edition, predicting in the first part that the transport by drivers of aliens and stateless persons to violate established rules of residence of foreigners and stateless persons in Ukraine and transit through Ukraine, if these actions are not directly related to the illegal crossing of persons across the state border of Ukraine. And here's the responsibility. Part two of this article. Equipment used for the transport of illegal migrants by owners or drivers of vehicles specially hidden or disguised. And part three provides for responsibility if these actions are repeated, either by a group of persons, or by several foreigners, and by persons without citizenship, including the confiscation of means of transport. I don't understand why the committee doesn't make such proposals, and I'd like to hear the opinion and insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u54	Dear colleagues! The point is that the committee partially took into account the amendment made by colleague Carmazin in the part concerning the increase in fine limits. At the same time, it is suggested that Carmazin’s amendment be rejected as part of the confiscation of the vehicle, since the category includes taxi drivers, bus drivers, and others who may as a result of their work, the business activity of the companies they work for, to transport foreigners without knowing that they are in violation of the law in Ukraine. So the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the amendment be rejected by a colleague of Carmazin, and in general the session room should be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u55	Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? Our colleague, National MP, Yuri Carmazin, offered the right offer, taking into account the influx of illegal migrants into Ukraine. To really be responsible for the illegal movement of migrants. This amendment is partially taken into account, and since the author insists on taking it fully into account, I am voting on amendment number four Yuri Karmazin, please support. [[10:45:54]] For 122 Correction not supported. The proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, a bill amending the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences to increase responsibility for violations of Ukrainian regulations is put to the vote. Registration number 2531. Please vote. [[10:46:36]] For 233 The law is passed. Thank you. The Draft Law on Amendments to the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on State Customs is being announced for consideration. Sergey Teryohin, please. Who will answer the tax and customs committee? Dear colleagues, let's do it this way, because we've considered this law, it's important, we're going to go to the amendment now, we can't sit around and wait for the committee head to allow himself to be here in the Supreme Council. Yuri Carmazin, please. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u56	Yuri Carmazin. I'll tell you what, it's about making changes to the State Customs Act, I suggest, but there's no reporter. I propose to complete the bill with a new sub-item, a point of content. Subparagraph (a), paragraph 3 of article 3, should read as follows: “For the certification of contracts for the alienation of immovable property,” I stress, ‘the immovable property’, “which are owned by citizens who make such an alienation one percent of the amount of the contract, but not less than one non-taxed minimum income of citizens and not more than three times the minimum wage established at the time of the certification of such a contract”. So what I'm proposing to do is get out of the shadows and offer this mechanism clearly how much to pay. Furthermore, sub-paragraph “in” reads: “by contract certification, one percent of the value of the property of the state-owned enterprises that are being bought or sold”. It's a small total sum. But absolutely fixed -- one percent is easy to calculate, and it's not going to be what's happening now, when these agreements are actually.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u57	Dear colleagues! I'm putting amendment number one, Yuri Carmazin to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:49:08]] For-166 The decision is not taken. The amendment of the following Jury Anatoliyovich Karmazin, please insert sub-paragraph 2 of paragraph 6 of Article 3, as follows: “According to the issuance of securities other than government and local loans, 0.1 per cent of the nominal value of the issuance of securities”. Please. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u58	I ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that people think now. We're saying we don't have any money in the budget. We're talking about some kind of shadow cycle going around. So I suggest you write that for registering the release of securities 0.1 percent of the nominal value of the release of securities. And everything, and we're enriching the budget, and then it's easier to figure out, because today it's only the complaints that we're dealing with about these securities, and that's how it's going to go into the budget. So this is the absolutely anti-crisis action that I'm proposing in this law. And please support him, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u59	I put this amendment to the vote by Yuri Karmazin. [[10:50:32]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Next amendment. For the State registration of the property right of natural persons to the immovable property of this right of 0.1 untaxed minimum income of citizens. Yuri Anatolyevich, please give your argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u60	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I'm talking to you, any registration has to be paid, because it's a function, it's done, it's spent power and costs. And I don't understand why we don't want to fill the state budget. I propose that for the state registration, as Vladimir Mikhailovich has now read, zero one untaxed minimum on citizens' income. This is the right of natural persons to immovable property with regard to the limitations of this right. Therefore, I would like to vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u61	The vote is on the amendment of Yuri Carmazin, which I have just read. [[10:51:42]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, Anatolia Seminoga. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. The amendment of Yuri Karmazin to the second part should read as follows: “This law takes effect from the day of publication.” When both the committee and the subject of the legislative initiative propose that the law take effect as of January 1, 2010. Yuri Anatolyevich, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u62	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I'm starting to think that we're living in crisis right now. If the law is to be passed, it is to be accepted and done now. Other questions, which bets are introduced, are larger, smaller. But we can't joke about filling the state budget right now. And that's why I now proposed that this law take effect from the day of publication. I actually think it's an extraordinary period now, and it's important to work extremely hard, and it's great to adopt normative acts. So I would like to support this amendment and not take another word for it, and I ask the Cabinet of Ministers to give a mandate by September to ensure the entry into force of the State Register of Real Estate Rights and Their Restrictions and Transfers by Municipal Enterprises of the Bureau of Technical Inventory, the local authorities of the State, and the rights of information on real estate objects. It's an assignment to give the Cabinet of Ministers and write it down here. You understand that the government needs to prepare and ensure this as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u63	Dear colleagues! A vote is taken on the amendment by Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin. [[10:53:32]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, the committee suggests that we accept it as a law in the second reading and generally as a law. The Chief Legal Authority has called for an appropriate draft law without any notice. I want to remind you that we have discussed and we have all agreed with this bill that it is very important and necessary to accept it. I am voting on the proposal of a committee on acceptance as a basis and as a whole as a bill of the bill amending the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on State Customs. Registration number 2462, please vote. Please vote. [[10:54:24]] For 217 The decision is not taken. I'm voting for re-reading the draft law, registration number 2462, please vote. [[10:54:51]] For 248 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 1, "Timoshenko Yulia Block" – 148, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 55, communists – 25, "Litvina Block" – 19. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Cabinet Decree on State Customs on Securities Transactions is being announced for consideration. Registration number 3067. Is there a committee representative? None. Let's look at it then. Dear colleagues, two proposals have been made to this bill. The first, People's Deputy Poluniev, the word “but no more than five times the minimum wage set for the first January of this year” is proposed to exclude it in order to prevent a reduction in the income of the State budget. The committee did not support this proposal. People's deputy Poluniev insists on substantiating it?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u64	No, I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u65	Don't insist. All other proposals are included. The committee's proposal, to adopt it as a law in a second reading and generally as a law, the Chief Legal Authority has called for a draft law without any notice. Therefore, a second reading proposal is put to the vote, and as a whole, as a bill of the Draft Law amending the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on State Customs on the transaction of securities, registration number 3067. Please vote. [[10:56:55]] For 229 Decision taken. So the law was passed. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture of Ukraine, registration number 2375, is being announced for consideration. [[on price regulation of the agricultural market, risk insurance, recovery measures and rural social programmes]] [[second reading]] At the same time, the committee asked the letter to move the consideration from March 19 to the following plenary week. I'm betting on the vote Mm.? [[And if there's no chart, what are we gonna take?]] Well, here's the question, fellow officers, the committee didn't give a comparative table, if we don't support the transfer now, we're going to have to vote in favour of the law. So I'm voting on the transfer of the bill, registration number 2375. Please vote. 2375. Yeah. [[10:58:22]] For 388 Decision taken. A draft Law on State Support and Promotion of Mineral Fertilizers in Ukraine is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is a member of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Mikola Andryovich Jankowski. Please, Mikolo Andryovich. Since it's big, let's do some repairs. I'm fixing it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u66	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people! Today, you are invited to consider draft Law 0909 on State Support for Promoting Production and Consumption of Mineral Fertilizers in Ukraine for Second Reading. The first reading stage of the law took place in the previous Supreme Council. In accordance with the requirements of the Rules, 66 comments and proposals were submitted at the preparatory stage for the second reading by the People's Deputies of the current convening. All comments and suggestions received were taken into account. The majority of them are entirely and only a small part editorially. The draft was prepared for second reading in close cooperation with the General Legal Office. Each provision was consistent with management experts, resulting in minimal comments from lawyers. And the last. Before the bill was considered in the sessional room, consultations and joint meetings were held in the Cabinet of Ministers, in the Ministry of Industrial Policy. Practically everything that has been incorporated into the draft law has been agreed upon and supported by the Cabinet of Ministers in accordance with the concluded memorandum of understanding between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the chemical complex. Therefore, I ask the people's deputies to support this bill on second reading and generally as a law of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u67	Thank you. Dear colleagues, practically, and more precisely, all the comments and corrections that have been taken into account. The committee proposes to accept it as a law in the second reading and in general. This proposal is for voting, namely the adoption of the draft Law on State Support Measures and the Promotion of Mineral Fertilizers in Ukraine on second reading and generally as a law. Registration number 0909. Please vote. [[11:01:08]] For 383 The law is passed. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Restoration or Recognition of Debtor's Payability is announced for consideration. [[on the timeliness of the satisfaction of debt claims from wages]] [[second reading]] [[Registration number 1105]] The rapporteur is the head of the Economic Policy Committee Committee, Alexander Mikolayovich Bondar. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u68	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! This is a very important and timely bill, which the committee proposes to adopt in the second reading and in general. It is defined by the government as the prime minister. There's not a lot of amendments here, although one of them is going to stop me separately, there are some disagreements, we're going to vote on it. What is the point of the bill? You know, businesses are now in a very difficult financial and economic state, and many businesses are in danger of starting or finishing bankruptcy. So the payment of wages and all the other social benefits, because now in the existing current legislation is paid in second place, first of all, all the taxes, the congregations are all that the enterprise owes to the state, and second of all, it's already paid to the workers. The authors of the Sanchenko Bill, MacKeenko, propose that these payments be made first. That is, to provide social protection for workers in bankruptcy proceedings that are very relevant in this difficult economic situation. The amendments are mainly made by MEPs and Karmazin. Some of them are counted, some of them are rejected. We'll make amends. I just want to say that the first amendment is partially taken into account. And there's a contradiction between not yet taken with author Sanchenko and European on two points. And I would suggest that -- that's what the Vote would point out -- that's what I'd like to put to the vote. I want to explain what the question is. The first amendment requires first of all payment of the obligation to pay insurance premiums for the general government pension insurance. We suggest that we leave this rule to make the Pension Fund a priority to pay off pensions. The MEP suggests that this amendment be withdrawn, or moved to the second instance. And another amendment to Voropeyeva is to take out the payout, the other payouts. Labour relations primarily with managers, legal persons, the chief accountant. I think it's also an issue. It needs to be voted on because it has not been proven that the accountant and the CEO of an enterprise that could have been exchanged several times during bankruptcy is responsible for the fact that an enterprise has been led to such a state. The rest of the amendments I ask you to put to the vote. And it is vital that we today uphold this law in a second reading as a whole, since it is vital in the present situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u69	Amendment number one, Oleg Voropeyev. Please, the microphone. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u70	Yes, I insist on this amendment. And I'll explain why. Currently, the current Bankruptcy Act provides for contributions to the Pension Fund to be paid in the second place. The authors are invited to transfer them first. We have discussed this for a long time, and the argument is that if there are no transfers to the Pension Fund, then there will be no pensions for the person. It's a very dangerous tendency to do that. The employee must comply with only one condition under the Pension Fund Act, article 3: he must work at an enterprise that lists contributions to the Pension Fund. But the relationship between the Pension Fund and the enterprise itself is no longer an employee's concern; it is already the concern of these organizations. Therefore, my proposal is to leave the pension fund charges in second place.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u71	Why Sonchenko? So what's the author doing here? The point is that for this is the first reading: that the author speak. The position of the committee is now in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u72	Yes, the position of the committee. Once again, we emphasize that we have taken off, transferred all other types of compulsory government social insurance to the second reading. They will be paid in the second instance. But we insist that pensions be paid primarily to ensure that pensions are paid in full to workers. So we suggest that this amendment should be rejected, not supported by the Pension Fund. That's the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, there is an amendment to the vote number one of the national deputies of Voropeyeva.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u74	I don't vote. The vote is, this is pensions in second place, you don't have to vote, you don't have to vote. [[11:06:40]] For 249
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u75	Decision taken. The amendment is taken into account, but we must, dear colleagues, understand that pensions are now going to be a big pension problem. Please, let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u76	I, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, think the MPs just didn't understand the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u77	They've got it all figured out, they've voted, they've got it, so let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u78	The next amendment, to be voted on, also refers to the amendment of Voropeyeva, which payment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u79	No, no, one minute. Next amendment number 3 is Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u80	Well. They were washed away, really.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, we have voted that we will not vote on anything, this is a violation of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u82	I want to say again, no one's going to vote. Jury Carmazin's third amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u83	Vladimir Mikhailovich, after the first amendment, I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u84	We already voted on the first amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u85	There's another point.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u86	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u87	We voted on the first amendment. There's an amendment, it's not divided into items. And this amendment is completely over. We voted in full. Jury Carmazin's third amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u88	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, reverend Alexander Mikolaiovich, the amendment applies to one law that is very necessary, which should be adopted today as a whole. But what I'm proposing is that the requirements that have arisen from the debt of bankruptcy to the employees of the company-bankruptcy to write: except for the members of the labour force who are co-owners of this company. So the owners of this company don't have to pay back, because otherwise, by writing down what the law says today, they're going to pay themselves back. And then we'll be back, asking questions to who. So this is a principle thing, an extremely principled thing, and I would like to vote for it. I don't understand why, Alexander Mikolaiovich, we didn't consider the owners to be themselves afterwards, and we don't rule them out. And those who contributed here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u89	Alexander Mikolayovich, please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u90	Well, you know, we're talking about the employees of the company, about the social protection of them at a time of bankruptcy. If they have some small stocks at the same time, why should we order them to do so and not pay? Well, we just don't understand the essence of this amendment, why it should be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u91	Amendment 3 of Yuri Karmazin is put to the vote. [[11:09:40]] For the 17th. No correction supported. Amendment 4 of the People’s Deputies of Voropeyeva Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u92	I'm not insisting on my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u93	Don't you insist? Let's move on. Pisarenko, accounted for. You don't want to make a point, do you? Next, amendment 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, and 14th Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin. Please, as amended.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u94	Vladimir Mikhailovich! Yuri Carmazin. I can't make all the adjustments in one minute, you know? Because they're a little bit different. For example, what I'm saying after the eighth amendment, I'm talking about. the transfer of sub-paragraph "g" of part one to paragraph three to the requirements considered in the third row is the costs associated with the conduct of the bankruptcy case before the Court of Justice and the work of the liquidation commission. Including the payment of government fees, the application for a notice of bankruptcy, the payment for publication in the official printed bodies of information on the order of sale of bankruptcy property, the cost of publication in the media on the renewal of implementation – this is all costs. The committee says that this is not the subject of first reading. This is not really the subject of the first reading. But, Alexandre Mikolaiovich, I thought that if we were already making changes to the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u95	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u96	I felt that if we were already making changes to the law, we would make changes in a complex way. Including in the seventh amendment, I predict in sub-paragraph “in” of the first part that I should put in the text such. Expenses the Fund to guarantee the contributions of natural persons associated with the acquisition of the creditor’s rights to the bank in the full amount of compensation for the contributions of natural persons. The above costs shall be reimbursed by the liquidation commission after it has effected part of the liquidation mass, unless otherwise provided by this law. I mean, I've tried to approach this law comprehensively and I've seen all the flaws in this law about restoring the ability of the borrower or recognizing his bankruptcy, which is virtually not working properly today. It doesn't work to the full today if you look at our current practice. So I realize that it was not discussed in the first reading. But I'd still like the committee to be comprehensive, otherwise there's no point in making corrections just on small issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u97	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u98	After all this amendment, the position of the committee is one that these amendments do not apply to the subject of the first reading. I want to remind you of the name of the law, which is that it's about how many people are satisfied with the debt requirements of their wages. If there are proper amendments to other standards, Deputy Carmazin has the right to pass a separate law, and we will consider it. But on the first reading, all the issues that relate to the bank's equity, equity contributions, but they don't apply to the payment of the cashier's salary. That's why we didn't support them.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, let's follow the Rules, Yuri Anatolyevich. I'd like to ask you to allow me to work under the Rules. All colleagues, please. And listen to what you're talking about. So all of your amendments to Amendment 14 are not the subject of this law, and then, essentially, they can't be considered. At the same time, I shall put to the vote in order to comply with the Rules, the amendments of Carmazin 6-14, please be determined. They are not the subject of this law, Yuri Anatolyovich. Are you filming? Take down the vote. Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u100	May I?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u101	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u102	We went through all the articles, but after the first article, the question remained. What's the point? The committee considered part of the amendment to Voropeyeva. It referred to two points, the first we vote, the second we don't. And they voted the full amendment of Voropeyev, and the opinion of the committee was not heard or voted. So I still asked to go back to the first amendment, because it's complex, it's about providing pensions to the population. I say again, we're talking about that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u103	Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u104	I'm saying again, we're talking about paying insurance premiums to the Pension Fund moving from the second line to the first. The committee insisted.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u105	Dear colleagues! The decision within the Rules may be one thing: to re-read. Vote now under one condition, please collect signatures from the entire faction and do not push me to break the Rules. Everyone knew what they were voting for. That's why I'm first. There will be two suggestions, dear colleagues, calm down. There will be two proposals. The first suggestion of the committee to accept in the second reading and in general as a law; and the second sentence, if not supported, for the second reading. Please, now I'm going to put myself in this sequence. There is a motion for adoption in the second reading and in general, as a bill of the draft Law “On Making Changes to the Law of Ukraine“On Restoring the Payability of Debtors or Recognizing It as a Bankruptcy on the Indemnity of Meeting Requirements When Indebted of Wages. Registration number 1105. [[11:16:10]] For-188. The decision is not taken. Now the second sentence, on re-reading and bringing it up for consideration for the next plenary week. Please vote. [[11:16:36]] For 231 Decision taken. Thank you for understanding the situation. Dear colleagues, I ask you once again, we have agreed that we are working in accordance with the rules. Consider article 48 of the Rules. If you had a decision-making violation in the final or in any part, you could immediately file your claims and then put it to a vote. Everything was done according to the rules. So the best way out is to go back to reviewing this law and find a common position, but otherwise we're going to let the rules be broken. The draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Electricity is being announced for consideration. [[on the settlement of electricity export issues]] Registration number 1371. Second reading. The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Titenko Sergey Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u106	Good day, fellow colleagues, the committee from the fuel and energy complex worked out a bill for the second reading, which we, by a constitutional majority of two months ago, adopted in the first reading in this room, and two weeks ago unanimously recommended for wine in the hall, for adoption as a whole and in the second reading. The main provisions of this law concern the following: firstly, energy suppliers who buy electricity for further export from Ukraine abroad buy it at a price not below what is in Ukraine – firstly. Secondly, access to the power of interstate electricity networks to export electricity is granted exclusively under auction conditions. Thirdly, the National Electricity Regulatory Commission is mandated to approve such an auction on the access and capacity of interstate electricity networks. Next. The operator that will make this auction should print in the media every month a capacity that is free and possible for export. All these questions take into account the situation that has now arisen with the export of electricity in Ukraine. The adoption of a law to confirm these basic positions will allow for greater transparency and efficiency in our exports, introduce competition to liberalize the market for electricity exports of pricing in the course of these operations. I ask you, Your Honor, to support the committee's proposal. And adopt the bill in second reading, and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u107	Amendment number one, Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u108	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I support this bill, it beats corruption schemes and people who are behind electricity exports and who buy it cheaper here, that is, it almost settles all the issues. But I suggested that article 1 “Definition of terms” be completed with the term “licensity” because we use it, and it is legally but not correctly defined. I propose that it be defined as a business entity registered in the established order of law that has been licensed by the NCRE for the right to engage in entrepreneurial activities from the transfer of electricity to the main and interstate electricity networks. So only in this kind of activity, this is a license for the subject matter of the law. And I think it would improve the law, it would do everything for transparency and for control today by the state, not lobbying what is happening today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u109	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u110	The committee has considered this issue and considers that today’s licenses granted by NCRE allow the issue to be carried out. NCRE produces about nine types of licenses that allow them to be executed. And so to introduce one type of license into the law, well, we didn't think it was worthwhile.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u111	Amendment No. 1 of Yuri Karmazin shall be put to the vote. [[11:21:58]] For-27 The decision is not taken. Amendment of the third Yuri Boyka. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Amendment 4 of Yuri Carmazin. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u112	The point is that the new article suggested that I simply post it after article 15 prim. And I think it would be more appropriate. But in view of the fact that the committee believes that international cooperation is better than chapter five, I will not insist or offer it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u113	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. All other amendments, respected colleagues, taken into account. The committee’s proposal to accept it in second reading and in general as the Law. The conclusion of the Main Authority is positive. The draft Law amending the Law “On Electricity ” for adoption in second reading and in general as the Law deals with voting. Registration number 13762. Please vote. [[11:23:27]] For 416 The law is passed. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the responsibility for illegal planting or growing snow poppy or cannabis]] The reporter is the National Deputy of Ukraine Beváz, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u114	Honourable Vladimir Mihajlovich, a respected colleague, is referring to the proposed bill providing for appropriate amendments to the 106th article of the Code on Administrative Offences, 106 with a badge of 2 and 310 articles of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. On February 4th, the Supreme Council adopted a bill to amend certain legislative acts regarding the responsibility for illegal planting or the cultivation of sleeping poppy or cannabis. The Supreme Council Committee on Law Enforcement has prepared the bill for second reading. In general, seven proposals and amendments have been submitted to the bill by the people’s deputies, for which we are very grateful to our colleagues. However, I would like to inform you that the problem is that, in large accounts, the sugar poppy and cannabis differ only because the weight and cost of the poppy, the raw material and the cost of the poppy differs 10-15 times. Thus, if a hundred shrubs of snodium poppy were to be sown, it would be two and a half pounds [two and a half kg] of narcotics — a cost of about five. Well, it's between 5,000 and 7.5 thousand dollars. Canopy, if we sow that amount, we're going to have 25, 40 kilograms more of the mark of the raw material, and the cost is going to be about 100-150 thousand dollars. Thus, the legislator proposes to amend existing legislation and to provide for appropriate amendments to article 106 of the Code on Administrative Offences, bearing in mind that we are literally illegal plantings or illicit cultivation of sleeping poppy up to a hundred plants or cannabiss in the number of up to 10 plants. And so we balance these questions. With regard to article 310 of the Criminal Code, we note that between 100 and 500 plants of snooze poppy and cannabis range from 10 to 50 plants. Thank you for your attention. Please support the proposals made by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, let's go to the repairs. People's deputies, we don't vote yet, we don't have any motives, we go after the amendments. Dear colleagues, we're going to the repairs!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u116	Second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u117	The second reading, however, is well understood. First amendment, national MP Rybek. Are you insisting on your amendment? No, it doesn't. Amendment number 2. Celebrity Olinick, do you insist? Oil, please. An oil man. None. Next. Valerius Pisarenko, fourth amendment. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u118	I'd like us to go back to repairing Olinick and vote on her. I want to say that we're in the process of discussing this bill, well, we've had a lot of comments about what you're saying. You know, the way in the village is to figure out how much poppy there is in the garden, yeah, because it's actually a culture that can grow today, and it doesn't do that kind of damage, like cannabis. So we suggested that something increase the poppy to 200, but this would allow us today to adopt this law in a second reading. In other words, we have a fractional decision to send to read again. So I ask you to go back to the Olinik amendment and vote. I'm making a mistake.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u119	I'd like to explain, dear colleagues. The thing is, otherwise it would be very difficult to qualify for this category of crime at all. That's the first one. And the second. First of all, we took the second reading, including the amendments, seriously conducting serious consultations with scientists and practices. And yet we've come to the conclusion that we have to get out of that quantity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u120	Amendment 20 of the Olinik Rev. 20 is put to the vote. In paragraph 1 of Article 106-2, the words “hundred” should be replaced by the words “two hundred”. [[11:29:29]] For 190 We didn't. Amendment 4 was withdrawn by Pisarenko, a national MP. The factions, please. Region Party - 0, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko" – 139, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" – 11, communists – 27, "Club of Lithuania" – 13. Amendment number 5. Anatoly Seminoga, insists on her? No, it's not. Yuri Carmazin, do you insist on the 6th amendment? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u121	Yuri Carmazin. Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! I'm pointing out that I'm proposing this article to write about the responsibility of imposing a fine of 200 untaxed minimum citizens' incomes by confiscating illicitly grown narco-urban plants and the proper area of land on which these plants were grown or by ceasing the right to use them. I'm underlining. What is said is that the nature of this wrongdoing is illegal sowing or cultivation. This means that the plant was not just accidentally sown there, but the established subjective fault is that it is illegal to sow or grow a sleeping poppy. This is an objective wine. So I proposed this amendment, this is Amendment 6, and I ask my colleagues to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, I believe that, in principle, Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin can be accepted. The committee supports such a proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Amendment No. 6 of Yuri Karmazin shall be put to the vote. [[11:31:41]] For 109 The decision is not taken. 7th Amendment. Don't insist. 8th Amendment. Rybeka, are you insisting? No, it's not. May I have your attention, please? 9th Amendment. Is the priest Olinick insisting? No, it's not. 11th. Anatoly Seminoga insists? No, it's not. The 12th. Valerius Pisarenko, do you insist? No, it's not. Let's move on. Yuri Carmazin, 14th Amendment. Are you insisting on her? Yuri Anatolyevich, 14th Amendment. Are you insisting? 14th. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u124	Dear National Deputies, George Carmazin. I'm pointing out that this is about making changes to the Criminal Code by 310 articles, to the Criminal Code, I stress, to the Codex. [[It's me talking to the colleagues we've just been talking to.]] And there I'm asking the question, aside from arresting up to six months, the restriction of will to three years with the confiscation of illicitly grown narcotic plants and the proper area of land where all these plants were grown, or the cessation of the right to use it. So this is about the addition to the criminal punishment phenomenon. Keep going. Dear friends, don't you see that drug abuse is spreading like a rod in the state today? We need to stop, including psychological methods, so that people know that they won't rent him or take him if he owns it. That's why I'm asking you to support me. It's going to be a preventive tool. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u125	Please, the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u126	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I do not think that the committee can agree, since the earth is the earth.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u127	I'm asking for your attention. Dear colleagues, well, here comes the discussion. I'm asking for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u128	This is about confiscation of the land. We can't agree with that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u129	Please take the seat of the committee. Dear colleagues, position. 14th Amendment, Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u130	I said to the committee that Carmazin's amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u131	I'm putting to the vote the 14th Amendment of Yuri Carmazin. [[11:34:27]] For 115 Correction not supported. Amendment 16, Yuri Carmazin. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u132	Dear friends! Yuri Carmazin. I'm asking a question. It is once again a matter of amending article 310 of the Criminal Code. This is about qualifications. That is to say, I propose another editorial: “The illegal soaping or cultivation of sleeping poppy or cannabis by a person who has been convicted of this article, or who has previously committed one of the crimes provided for in Articles 307, 309, 311, 317, 317, or who has been committed by a previous conspiracy group of persons, as well as the illegal planting or cultivation of sleeping poppy or cannabis in the number of 100 and more plants — that is, on a repeated, repeatable, only repetitive — is punishable by the deprivation of liberty of 3 to 7 years with the confiscation of illicit drug-producing plants and the corresponding person of the land where these plants were grown, or by the cessation of the right to use of it.” [[I mean, it's about the Mafia and the recidivists who've done this before.]] Well, if we don't fight recidivists who've already been condemned and so on, and they're treated like someone's been saying here right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u133	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u134	Dear colleague, you can essentially agree fully with your offer, but once again, we're talking about the land. You know, the practice shows that unfortunately, today we have a lot of peasants, unfortunately, buying up this raw material, including drugs. And today to ask the question that we have to confiscate the peasant's land, we can't agree to that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, we are voting on Amendment No. 16 of Yuri Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, I'd like to be completely professional, not emotional. [[11:36:37]] For 241
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u137	For -241, correction counted. Dear colleagues, all the amendments, all the amendments are considered. The committee's proposal is to accept it in second reading and generally as a law. The rule of law was unattended. That's why he's voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u138	I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u139	draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on liability for illegal plantings, or the cultivation of snodia poppy, or cannabis for adoption on second reading and as a whole as a law. Registration number 1267. Please vote. [[11:37:39]] For 332 The law is passed. The law is passed. Please, Sergey Ribuk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u140	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you very carefully for these 30 seconds. Now the Supreme Council has passed the law and has become the wrong way to fight drugs. You see, it's directed, this law, to the punishment of these peasants and peasant women, three quarters of whom don't know what drug abuse is, and it's sown in the garden. It would be best for us today to entrust the government with a decision and to distribute 15 grams of the Berkut poppy, which is non-drug and cannabis-free, and to remove this problem in general. It's not because they want to abuse. And the one who cultivates and abuses and takes a business course is not affected by this law. Vladimir Mikhajlovich, get special help from the appropriate authorities, how many peasants, pensioners are sitting in our prisons because of this poppy, you're going to be terrified. This is no way to resolve such matters. They did not consult the Committee of the High Council of Agarine Politics. That's right, you know.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u141	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it is obvious that we should make a warning. If the Supreme Council objects, we will prepare a statement and send them to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to take the steps our colleague has just proposed. At the same time, we need to make adequate decisions in this regard, since we are losing our young generation to drug abuse. A draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the responsibility for grave abuse and other burial sites, registration number 2160, has been announced for consideration. Reporter: Vladimir Romanovich Moisik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u142	Moses, the “For Ukraine” MP. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! On March 5, this year, you and I adopted in our first reading a legislative proposal by colleagues from the Lithuanian Faction Block to amend the Funeral and Funeral Affairs Act, and in connection with these changes to the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which plans to increase criminal responsibility for the abuse of the grave, the burial place, the body of the deceased, the remains or the dust of the deceased. Before the second reading, the deadline was reduced to one week. Ten comments were received and proposals were made by legal entities, nine of which were taken into account, and one was rejected. In addition, after that meeting of the 11th March Committee, there was a proposal by the People’s Deputy Carmazin to increase the fine, which was included in the table. And the committee is asking you to uphold the law as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, amendment number one, authors Katerina Samoylik and Katerina Vaszczuk. Please, do you insist on this amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u144	Vladimir Mikhailovich, Katerina Semenovna is not here. She made an amendment, but this rule is in another article of the Criminal Code. So there was no need to duplicate it in this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u145	Don't the authors insist on the amendment? Shouldn't she be put to the vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u146	I don't think that's necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u147	No, it's not. Then, honourable colleagues, are put to the vote by a second reading committee and generally as a bill of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation to increase the responsibility for the abuse of the grave and other burial places. Registration number 2160. Please vote. [[11:42:05]] For 364 The law is passed. The draft Law approving the amendment to Article 22 of the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is being announced for consideration. [[on the term of office of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea]] Registration number 3653. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Elin Shishkin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! Three amendments were made to the committee on the subject. And on March 17th, the committee discussed the matter. All three amendments that came from the national deputies, Klukkowski, Mishchenka, and Karmazin were taken into account. And so the committee proposes the final edition of the bill, and more faithfully its second article in the following, that this law is subject to publication in the official editions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, along with the text of the approved amendment to article 22 of the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and takes effect on the day of the opening of the first session of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, whose composition is elected in the next successive elections to the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. No more comments or suggestions were received from the committee from the Ukrainian national deputies, so the question was adopted unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u149	Just a minute. Please, Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u150	Dear colleagues! Please be very careful about what the committee has just reported. If we support what the committee is now proposing, they can either hold an election or not hold an election at any time, because they're five years old, they'll think that the next election is scheduled to take place in 2011 instead of 2010. So this amendment is going to lead to chaos, and we can't do that, because all the local councils, according to the changes to the Constitution, are going to hold the next election not at 11 but in 10 years. The Supreme Council of the Republic of Crimea also has a bearing on this category. That's the first one. The other one. I suggest you take a look at the proposal that we were offered for the second reading of the General Legal Office, and it made these categories clear. And I propose to support this law in the lecture of the Chief Legal Office of the Editorial. Then it'll be all right. And if we vote like a committee we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u151	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u152	Once again, I ask you to pay attention to the committee there's sophistication, there's no clarity there's going to be a variety of interpretations. And then, with your permission, I'm going to say that he's proposing the Chief Legal Authority and that it's correct and correct that the amendment to article 22 of the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea takes effect with this law, and this law takes effect from the date of its publication and has been in effect since the date of its publication, in accordance with the Constitution, and the laws of Ukraine for the next election to the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crime in 2010. Then it will be understood and no one will think as he pleases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u153	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u154	I just want to point out that the comments to the General Legal Office came after the committee meeting. But we agree with the General Legal Authority's proposal to put this law into effect since 2010.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Obviously, to avoid ambiguities, we need to take into account when voting that we consider the proposal of the Chief Legal Authority in order to ensure that there are no discrepancies. No warning? And the committee agrees. In view of this, which is what we take into account and take into account the observations made by the General Legal Authority, I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and, as a whole, the bill approving the amendment to article 22 of the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. [[on the term of office of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea]] Registration number 3653. According to the Chief Legal Authority. [[11:47:06]] For 370. Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, there's a request, there's a need for legal and technical regulation regarding standard-setting techniques and a determination to take this into account, without altering the substance of the regulation, so that we can make it right in accordance with the legal and technical standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u157	Yes, you did. The draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the powers of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the features of the conduct of constitutional appeals and the non-abuse of the right to constitutional submission]] Registration number 3414. Reporter Philipenko Volodymyr Pilpovich, head of the Subcommittee, Legal Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u158	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head. Dear colleagues! Ukraine's draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the authorization of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to introduce provisions for constitutional appeals and non-abuse of the right to constitutional submission by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the first reading of the third of March 2009. [[Registration number 3414]] This bill is aimed at improving the legal regulation of the activities of the Constitutional Court by making appropriate changes to the laws of Ukraine on the Cabinet of Ministers and on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. The proposals made during the first reading of the bill were considered by the Committee on Legal Policy in its preparation for the second reading. In the course of the work on the bill, 33 proposals were made to the committee at the March 17 committee meeting. Of these proposals, 24 are considered in full, one in part. One amendment is taken into account editorially and seven is rejected. Unaccounted for, I point out, there are only those proposals that conflict with the concept of the draft adopted in the first reading. I also report that, following the meeting of the Committee on March 17, there were proposals by national deputy Tarasyuk Boris Ivanovich, who had not been considered by the committee at the meeting. But our analysis of the content of these proposals gives us reason to say that the substance of these amendments has actually been fully reflected in the draft draft draft for the second reading. Since similar suggestions for content were made by other Ukrainian national deputies. In fact, the bill, which was supplemented by the amendments and proposals tabled by the people's deputies of Ukraine, preserved all the main ideas of the drafters of the bill that had been proposed. The Committee on Legal Policy, as a result of the drafting of the bill for second reading, decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it be accepted on second reading and in general. I also point out that the Chief Legal Office recommends that the draft law be adopted in the second reading, taking into account certain technical rules. So please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention. Sure.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u159	After the amendments, let's go. Amendment 5 of the Shishkina People's Deputy. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u160	Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I insist on this amendment because the proposed amendments, part 3 of article 44, contradict article 152 of the Constitution of Ukraine and the decision of the Constitutional Court of 14 November 2001 concerning the official interpretation of the powers of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. This amendment is proposed, the more faithful amendments proposed, part three of article 44, invites the Constitutional Court to consider non-executive legal acts at a time when, in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court does not make legal acts non-substantial. Therefore, when certain acts were submitted to the Constitutional Court for non-constitutionality and were no longer in force at that time, the Constitutional Court issued procedural rulings on refusal to open conduct. Therefore, article 152 of the Constitution also makes it clear that the Constitutional Court does not consider non-executive legal acts. Moreover, these changes are a legal absurdity simple. Why consider a legal act.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u161	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u162	Why consider an act that no longer produces legal effects or regulates any legal relationship, that is, it is no longer valid. This is legal nonsense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u163	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u164	Dear colleagues! Thank you! The committee's proposal to support the editorial that was in the first reading and the proposal to reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u165	Dear colleagues! An amendment is made to the vote number five of Shishkina’s national deputies, please identify yourself. [[11:52:07]] For-51 Correction not supported. The seventh amendment, once again, of Elina Shishkina. Please, do you insist on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u166	I don't really insist on amendment number seven, but I'm just asking you to take the editorial changes into account, and I'm just asking you to make paragraph three into paragraph four, just so that you don't break the existing structure of the standard, which is in its original form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u167	Thank you. This is a technical readjustment, and obviously it has to be taken into account. Amendment eight, are you insisting on it? Shishkina microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u168	Yes, I insist on amendment eight, and at the same time I ask you not to consider the amendment the following number nine of Carmazin’s deputies, since this amendment is already a duplicate of the previous standard of part of the preceding article, part of the first article. There is a general provision on all legal acts, and Mr. Carmazin's amendment simply adds further, the Kabminu Act indicates. As far as I'm concerned, there is no difference, for example, between the act of Kabmin and the act of the President or the ruling of the Supreme Council by legal force. And because for me, there's no point in just introducing an extra double norm and one article at a time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u169	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is an amendment to the vote No. 8 of the People’s Deputies of Shishkina. [[11:53:48]] For-39 Correction not supported. Now Amendment No. 9 of Yuri Carmazin. The committee counted it, but the national deputy Shishkin denies the amendment. We're going to have to put it to a vote so that the Supreme Council can either confirm it or not confirm it. Yuri Anatolyevich, for this reason. Is there a Carmazin? Microphone, please, for the ninth amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u170	Yuri Carmazin. I thank the committee for supporting and correcting this amendment. Because we changed the wording of part two of article 45 and wrote that the Constitutional Court refuses to open the President's constitutional application in matters of conformity with the Constitution of the Cabinet of Ministers in cases where the question of the conformity of the Constitution of this act by the Cabinet of Ministers has already been the subject of a review by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, under which the Constitutional Court has adopted a decision to refuse the opening of the adoption or the decision to recognise the Cabinet Act in a manner consistent with the Constitution of Ukraine. It's perfectly normal, and it shows that you don't have to load the Constitutional Court for once. I thank the committee once again, and once again we have to vote, please ask the MPs to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u171	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u172	The position of the committee is the same as that of the amendment. Therefore, if you vote, the committee supports this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, please pay attention to the vote Amendment No. 9 of Yuri Karmazin. The committee counted it, but at the same time it needs to either support or not support the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I vote in favour of this amendment. [[11:55:37]] For 344 Correction supported. Let's move on. Amendment 14, Elina Shishkina. Are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u174	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u175	Oh, no?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u176	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u177	Don't insist. Amendment 22, Elina Shishkina. Are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u178	Yeah, that's why I insist. The point is, this is about urgency. And I just want to say that, for example, right now, there's a situation in the Constitutional Court that's got about 30 applications and about half of them are the President's application, and about half of them are the suspension of Kabmin's constitutional acts. The thing is, it's about seven presidential applications. The point is, in determining urgency, then you have to write out the criteria, which of the acts of the Cabinet is the most urgent moment. So the language goes, which is the most urgent. If we're putting everyone at the same level, I don't see any equality here. Thank you. And why is it a long time, the Constitutional Court, to set a certain time frame? Thank you for your attention, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, the position of the committee does not support, the author insists on her amendment, then she puts to the vote this amendment number 22. [[11:57:16]] For-41 Correction is not supported. Twenty-eighth amendment of the national deputy Shishkina Elina. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u180	Thank you. I have the same motivation as the previous amendment, so I can't stress the unnecessary once in a while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u181	The vote is amended as follows: [[11:57:49]] For-22. Decision taken. Thirty-third amendment of national deputy Elina Shishkina. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u182	Thank you. This is one of my main amendments that was rejected by the committee. So the motivation is that this standard doesn't change the situation that is now and that's why. The thing is, our president is doing very cunningly. He submits a constitutional application for the unconstitutionality of the Kabmin Act and between the time that the decision of the College of the Constitutional Court has already passed, no matter what procedural approval, and the decision of the Constitutional Court directly in this period of time the President withdraws the constitutional application. But the constitutional response does not stop his decree to stop the action of Kabmin, so the action of Kabmin continues to be stopped. This standard doesn't solve anything. It's still going to go the way it is right now. I mean, she's still born, like me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u183	Thank you. Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, the committee proposes to reject this amendment, because in this case it is only about the relations between the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This is to avoid the abuse of the rights that the President is currently using, and the language in the first reading is to be rejected, taking into account this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u185	Dear colleagues, please repeat the microphone of Elina Shishkina.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u186	I just want to say that this amendment was the main subject of discussion at the committee meeting. I made my own arguments. But the thing is, this standard really doesn't solve anything. We also narrow down the mandate of the Constitutional Court to evaluate the act of Kabmin or any other act. Well, in this case, the act of Kabmin. We're narrowing it down. And this standard is dead. She won't give anything. It will not change the abuse of the right that is now. Because there was no practice for the President when he again stopped the Kabmina act. He stopped, so he and his actions were not continued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, the amendments have been voted on. The committee proposes to accept it as a law in the second reading as a whole. So I'd like to have your attention. The draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the powers of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the features of the conduct of constitutional appeals and the non-abuse of the right to constitutionally submit a constitutional application for adoption in the second reading and as a whole as a law is on the vote. [[Registration number 3414]] Please vote. [[12:00:47]] For 359 The law is passed. Thank you. The factions, please. Regional Party - 159, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 148, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" - 5, Communists - 27, "Litvina Block" - 20. Dear colleagues, there's a break to 12 o'clock in 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u188	Please invite the national deputies to the session room so that we can continue our work. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, at 12: 30 a.m., we are discussing the election and release of judges. Then let us turn to this question. The rapporteur is Head of the Justice Committee Sergey Vasilovich Kiwalov. Please draft Decree 4195.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u189	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, the honourable ones present! The Supreme Council Committee on Justice at its meetings on 11 and 16 March considered the appointment of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the head of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, on the election of judges on an indefinite basis and the election of judges previously elected on an open-ended basis. You are well aware of the procedure. The judges are in the guest bed and on the balcony. The committee recommends that judges be elected on an indefinite basis: the Court of Appeal of the Lviv District of Tetjan Ivanovna; the Court of Appeal of the Herson district of Krasnov, Igor Volodymyrovich; Military Court of Appeal of the Force of the Sea of Strong Mikola Volodymirovic; The Donetsk Administrative Court of Appeal, Hawk Love Victorian; the local Armenian City Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Lichachov Larissa Alexiyevna; the local Soviet District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Kordik Stanislav Vasilovich; the local Red Army District Court of the Donetsk district of Korneyev Inessa Victorian; the local Guliapil district court of Zaporozh district of Jaroz Sergey Aleksandrovitch; the local Commune District Court of Zaporozhye Jaroshenko Andrija Grigorovitch; the local Supreme District Court of Ivano-Frankiv district of Atamanjuk Roman Ilić; the local Bobrinecki District Court of Kirovograd, Adamenko Irina Mikolayovna and Sarapa Mikola Borisovich; the local Novopskovsky District Court of the Lugansk Region of Tarasov Dmitra Sergiyovich; The local Sverdlov City Court of Lugansk, Olejnik's Galina Mikolayevna. the local Frankiv Paradise Court of Lvova Kozurenko Rostislava Stepanović; the local Malinov district court of Odessa Cemetery Sergey Alexiyovich; the local Korat District Court of the Naumov region, Sergija Valentinović; the local Putill district court of the Suma district of Litovko Mikola Ivanovich; The local Romanian District Court of Suma District, Yakovtsa Alexander Fedorovich, Jaremenka Hennady Mikolaiovich; the local Kremenack district court of the Ternopil district of Mochal Valentina Mikolayevna; And the military.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u190	Just a minute. Just a minute. There's a warning about the Kremensky District Court, isn't there? Well, let's put a mark on it. Please, Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u191	And the military local court of Kharkiv garrison of Savenka Mikola Evgeniovich. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, the list has been issued. The warning is against the judge of the local Cremenac district court in Ternopil district of the Mochal Valentina Mikolayevna. Is that what I'm saying? So let's do it, as we've always done on the list now, let's remove it. Let's vote for the election of the judges, and then we'll discuss the candidacy of Judge Michal's Valentina Mikolayevna. No warning? That's why I'm asking for your attention! A draft decision on the selection of judges, registration number 4195, is put to the vote, with the exception of the judge of the local Kremenack District Court of Ternopil district of the Mochal Valentina Mikolayovna. Please vote. [[12:36:02]] For 366 Decision taken. Please have some warnings about Judge Mochaleski. Microphone, please turn it on. Who's there? Please, Denkovich, it's the Timoshenko Yuli Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u193	Dear fellow MPs, dear Mr. Head! The Mochaly Valentina Mikolayevna is not to be elected Supreme Council to serve as Judge of the Kremenac District Court of the Ternopil Region on an uninterrupted basis, since it does not or does not comply with the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, nor does it provide a comprehensive and objective hearing of cases. Yes, on August 2, 2006, under the direction of the judge, the court ruled against the application of King Andrew Petrovich, and it was recognized that he had lost his right to use the apartment. King Andrew Petrovich is a disabled child, needs foreign care, and the deprivation of such a person’s right to housing is not only illegal but also immoral. Another case, in February 2005, Semenyuk Yuri Vasilovich, of the Kremenac District Court, appealed to the administration of the Ukrainian Pension Fund in the Kremenac Region for the return of an unwarranted congregation for compulsory pension insurance.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u194	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u195	Judge Mochalski was dismissed in satisfying the suit. 17.06.2008 The Supreme Court of Ukraine passed a decision abrogating the decision of the Kremenack District Court of 16.03.2005 and partially satisfied Semenyuk’s complaint. On the basis of the foregoing, I do not think we can vote in favour of the election of the Michal Valentina Mikolayovna as judge of the Cremenac district court in Ternopil district.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u196	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u197	Dear colleagues! The Supreme Council had already considered this nomination on the fifth of February 2009, on the basis of comments made by the People's Derevljano People's Deputy. The committee subsequently established a committee to verify complaints against Judge Mochalska. Members of our committee were represented by all political, all representatives of different factions. And as a result of the audit of the judge, the committee was introduced. I would like to point out that the decision to recommend to the judge was taken unanimously on the committee. I echoed the Committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, our colleague's position has been expressed. The commission investigated, decided to recommend. I mean, there's every reason to vote, if there's no other opinion, about the election of Santa Valentina, the judge on an untimely basis, please vote. [[This is the local Kremineck district court of Ternopil district.]] [[12:39:27]] For 190 The decision is not taken. Please study this question. The next order is 4196.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u199	The committee recommends the selection of judges previously elected on an indefinite basis as judges. Kiev’s Administrative Court of Appeal, Earth’s Galina Volodymyr, Izmail’s Tetjana Leonidivna, Umnov’s Olen Volodymyrovna, Hrimli Alexander Hennadyovich, and Šostak Alexander Alexiyovich. As well as Odessa’s Court of Appeal, Pathetic Alexander Illich. Please support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u200	No warning, no respectable colleagues? A draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of judges, registration number 4196, is being put to the vote, please. [[12:40:34]] For 339 Decision taken. Thank you. Order 4216.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u201	The Committee recommends that Odras Inna Alexiyevna be appointed judge of the local Pecher district court in Kiev on an uninterrupted basis. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u202	A draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of judge number 4216 is put to the vote. [[12:41:18]] For 354 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Let us welcome the judges whom we have just elected as temporary judges to their faithful service to the law. And taking into account the discussions and suggestions that were made at the parliamentary hearing yesterday on the state of justice in Ukraine. A project on the appointment of out - of - turn local elections is under consideration. Bodnar Olga Borisovna, please. Let's do it now if there's no warning we're going to follow orders and that's it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u203	Dear voters! Dear Chairman, fellow MPs! At its meeting on March 11, 2009, the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government discussed the question of the appointment of five local authorities to the five local self - government elections in connection with the timely cessation of the powers of these heads, namely, the Spanish head of the Cashinian Mary Ilkovna, the Spanish Village Council of the Rogatin Region of Johno-Frankow region, at their own request in connection with the application. The local council discussed the issue on December 22. Gabriel’s village head, Stuphinski Grigory Petrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u204	Olga Borisovna, one minute. Dear colleagues! A draft decision on the appointment of the Spanish head in turn is put to the vote. [[Registration number 4201]] [[Spanish Rural Council of the region of Ivano-Frankiv]] Please vote. For – 319. Decision taken. Order 4201-1, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u205	Order 4201-1. Gabriel's village head Stupnicki Grigory Petrovich, as decided by the Council on November 21, 2008. [[Gavril Rural Council of the Calancet region of the Hersonian region]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u206	A draft decree, registration number 4201-1, on the appointment of consecutive elections of the agricultural head of Gabriel is put to the vote. [[Gavril Rural Council of the Calancet region of the Hersonian region]] Please vote. [[12:44:13]] For the 320. Decision taken. Please, Pisarenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u207	Dear colleagues, we have all these materials, perhaps we will entrust the Head of the Supreme Council, as we have done in practice, to speak number and territorial district, and we will pass all these votes through the list so that we don't waste time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u208	Dear colleague, there are only five of them, so let us comply with the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u209	Please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u210	4201-2. Novopetrovski village head Jankovsky Alexei Mikolaiovich, Novopetrovska Selska Rada, Vystrodski district of Kyiv region, as decided by the Council. On November 29, 2008, a meeting took place.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u211	A draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of the New Peterian Rural Head, the Novopetrovska Rural Council, the High Town Region of Kiev, is being put to the vote. Registration number 4201-2. Please vote. [[12:45:17]] For 308. Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u212	4201-3 Hoptenen village head Dariuschuk Ivan Opanasovich, for his own sake, in connection with February 2, 2009. [[Hoptin village council of the Hmělnick district]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u213	You are being introduced by your esteemed colleagues, the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of the extraordinary election of the Hoptinian Rural Head of the Hoptin village council of the Hmělnicke District. [[Registration number 4201-3]] Please vote. [[12:46:05]] For 311 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u214	4201-4 The city guard's head, Boychuk Mikola Alexiyovich, on trial. [[City of the Watchtower District of Cherniewec]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u215	He introduces a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of the extraordinary election of the City Council. [[City of Stryzinetsky district of Cherniewecka district]] Registration number 4201-4. Please vote. [[12:46:48]] For 312 Decision taken. Thank you to the committee for preparing the questions for consideration. All of it. What's the next question? So we all ran out of questions that were proposed by the committee, which was still a question. Go to Alexander Volodymyrovich and tell him. Dear colleagues! As long as questions are raised here with the committee, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Television and Broadcasting Act is under review. [[on bringing into conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine]] Registration number 3140. [[second reading]] Bondarenko Olena Anatolylna, head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, has the floor for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u216	Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Law 3140 was approved by the Supreme Council on September 26, 2008. But there are some objections. For second reading, we are introducing a bill that contains two controversial amendments. Since the authors are not present at this time, as they do not even know that the bill is being put on the agenda today, there is a request from the Committee, including that the second reading be postponed. Please support the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u217	Dear colleagues! The point is that we need to find a common position now, because we need to put it to the vote on the transfer. The law for consideration was laid down on the Conciliation Council, so there is now a proposal for a committee to move the proceedings. I'm going to put this motion to a vote and ask you to consider the position of the committee, and if you don't, we're going to consider it. I put to the vote a proposal by the committee to postpone the consideration of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Television and Broadcasting. Registration number 3140. Please vote. [[12:49:18]] For 306 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! We now have to consider two laws that the President of Ukraine has applied to the veto. And now he has to go to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a reporter who can't get out of the Constitutional Court. This may be the case: We will postpone this consideration now, and as soon as the reporter shows up, we will consider it. No warning? Dear colleagues! Now here's the next one. We have a lot to deal with right now. If you were to support the drafting of such a question, we would consider it as a reduced procedure to ensure that all the bills are considered. I'm making a proposal to consider bills that are prepared for the first reading, and to consider a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[12:50:41]] For-189 Decision taken. The draft Law on the National Targeted Economic Programme for the Monitoring of Residues of Veterinary Substances and Contaminants in Live Animals, Animal Products and Feed, as well as in food products controlled by the Veterinary Service, is being announced for 2009-2014. Who will report from the government? What'd you miss? What? Now, one minute. I've got it. I'll report him for what he did. Now, one minute. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to prepare an address for the Cabinet of Ministers right now, so we can't keep working. We're working on a clear schedule. Let us postpone consideration of this issue until the reporter arrives. Dear colleagues, I ask you, let us postpone the consideration of this law until a reporter appears, and we will now proceed to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Fire Safety Act, 2361. The rapporteur is Ukraine’s Minister for Emergency Situations and People’s Protection from the Effects of the Chernobyl disaster, Vladimir Mikolaiovich Shandra. And the co-reporter will be the chairman of Anatoly Seminog's committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u218	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The draft Ukrainian Fire Safety Act has been drafted to bring fire safety legislation into line with the requirements of the Ukrainian Act on Basic Principles of State Control in the Field of Economic Activity, with regard to reducing pressure on businesses and organizing checks and their firefighting status. The bill proposes a legal solution to problems related to State oversight in the field of fire safety in enterprises, institutions, and organizations irrespective of the form of ownership. There is an order for planned and non-planned checks to be carried out exclusively at work at the place of establishment of the economic activity of the operator, not at any time as provided for by valid legislation. A comprehensive list of the public fire control authorities’ arranging documents is proposed to address violations and deficiencies in the areas of fire safety, prescriptions, regulations, and regulations, and expert conclusions and reasons for halting the operation of enterprises, individual production, manufacturing, buildings, buildings, and fire - resistant works, and so forth. The powers of heads of state fire control authorities are also determined when decisions are made to stop work and the functions of the specially authorized central executive authorities regarding the organization of firefighting on the underground buildings and areas of the State Forest Fund are organized. The bill introduced for your consideration is close to European standards in the field of State oversight and fire safety for the protection of people's lives, national wealth and environment. The bill as a whole received a positive conclusion from the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, which was reviewed by the Supreme Council's profile committee and recommended to the Supreme Council for adoption in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u219	Thank you, too, sit down, please. First Deputy Head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Mikola Haritonovich Schershun, please position the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u220	Mikola Shershun, Block Lithuania. Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! One of the main features of the bill is the optimisation of checks on the owners and the introduction of the Ukrainian Fire Safety Act in accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on Basic Principles for State Oversight, Control in the Field of Economic Activity. The solution to the most pressing problems of national fire control in the field of farming in Ukraine has long grown to the point of life itself. However, the state of fires and their consequences in the state does not give rise to the view of fire safety as secondary. Because it is an integral part of Ukraine’s national security, and it provides one of the most important functions of the state in protecting the lives of people of the national wealth of the environment. The bill provides for rules for regulating the conduct of checks by officials of the public fire authorities and for the primary responsibility for their actions. The bill also provides for the resolution of the activities of fire department units, that is, units formed by the Ministry and other central authorities of the executive branch regarding the involvement in firefighting, as well as the preparation of a special composition. The adoption of the proposed draft law does not require additional funding from the State Budget, nor does it provide for changes to other valid laws. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council's Apparatus, after commenting, suggests that the first reading of the bill may be adopted on the first reading on the basis of the comments made. National deputies of Ukraine, members of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster at their meeting on July 8, 2008, decided to support the bill and recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis for the first reading. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u221	A report has been made. Let's talk, shall we? Please write two for two against. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. Sergei Mishchenko. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u222	Pisarenko will go.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u223	Please, People's Deputy Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u224	On the rostrum, if you don't mind. Dear colleagues, really, it's one of those bills that hasn't changed much legislation can change the serious situation in the field of fire safety, in the area of regulation today involving the state in many projects. You know, we keep talking about how to reduce the cost of building many projects today so that we have adequate housing prices for other housing projects. But what led to this expansion of authority, with fire safety? No one is saying that the building price of a square metre today is large enough to be accounted for in fact by all entrepreneurs today for fire safety in order to pass any other requirement. In addition, verifications by fire safety authorities today do not apply to ensuring this safety, but relate to receiving appropriate payments from entrepreneurs of any level to date. So in order to preserve this fire safety system and the system in general, of course, Parliament has to support the Cabinet of Ministers initiative and lower the state's influence on this process today. Of course, the issues that today will be governed by this law, including work-time checks, so that there will not be one that comes in at night for checks, and proper control of only organizations, enterprises that are part of the field of fire safety management, all of this will have a positive impact on many points. And of course, the adoption of such laws today is very important in the session room. I would like to stress once again the need to reject today's political laws and move on to the normal constructive work that the Cabinet of Ministers is offering us today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u225	Irina Akimov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u226	Dear colleagues, I would like to emphasize that the Party of the Regions never deals solely with the political subtext of bills that can really help entrepreneurship. And this is just one of the few bills that can really improve the situation. I recall that, according to international ratings, Ukraine has traditionally occupied one of the most recent regulatory pressures on business. And this bill, which streamlines regulatory activities in the field of fire safety, will reduce this regulatory pressure. That is why we are in favour of this bill and we propose to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u227	Thank you. Yuri Karmazin, faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u228	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a double impression of reading this document. I have great doubts as to whether all documents are being read to the end or not. And I would like to share with you these doubts. If earlier in article 7, it was envisaged that State fire control is carried out under the conditions of fire safety at locations and on objects irrespective of the form of ownership, it is now being carried out for the fulfilment of the legislative requirements of ministries and other central executive authorities and, through which, then by objects. [[Article 7]] Is that an improvement of the law? I don't think it's an improvement. If it's written that they're entitled. Previously, we had written that the state inspectors of fire control had the right: to conduct any time in the presence of the owner or his representative of fire-fighting tests, - we are now writing: “to conduct the workplace at the place of business”. What if something happened on Sunday, on a holiday? What if such incidents occurred in Crimea or in Dnipropetrovsk with gas? What, then, improves this law? It's getting worse. Let's move on to the law. New paragraph 7 is introduced here. Look, please, obviously no one has seen what climate improvement is like. This is article 7: “Stop the work of enterprises, individual productions, manufacturing industries, aggregates, the operation of buildings, buildings and other facilities, separate facilities, heating appliances, premises. ” And there's everything else, everything else, everything else in cases. I mean, in my opinion. And at the end of here, "stop the business" and everything else. In my opinion, there's an incorrigible extension, just like that. What the previous speaker was talking about, there's no language here. There is a significant and very serious increase. If it washes me.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u229	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u230	If. Thank you. If I'm convinced it's better. I don't see it better yet. Because I can see again that this is going to be a certain number of complaints and go, and an accusation in the courts and around the bodies. I believe that the law in force was sufficient to settle all issues and make life completely difficult for everyone in the state, obviously not necessary. And apparently it is better to supervise objects, not ministries, as is recorded here. I'm sorry, but I can't vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u231	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft law amending the Ukrainian Fire Safety Act has been considered. Committee proposal: accept as a basis. The conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration: The bill can be adopted as a basis. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Fire Safety Act is put to the vote for adoption as a basis. Registration number 2361. Please vote. [[13:04:31]] For 350. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, this is how we now go back to reviewing the laws that the President of Ukraine has applied to the veto. Marina Ivanovna Stavniczuk, Deputy Head of the Ukrainian Presidential Secretariat, will report on the Ukrainian Law “On Amendments to Article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on State Prizes” with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 13.06. 2007 Registration number 0865. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u232	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies and present at the meeting of the Supreme Council! Thank you for understanding. I was just taking part in the Constitutional Court. On 17 May 2007, the Supreme Council adopted, as a whole, the Ukrainian Act amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Act on State Prizes. The law is proposed to complement the list of honours of Ukraine set out in the current version of article 10 of this law, including five new titles, namely: “Deserved Geologist of Ukraine”, “Deserved Flyer of Ukraine”, “Deserved Pilot of Ukraine”, “Deserved Pilot of Ukraine”, “Deserved Visitors of Ukraine” and “Deserved Employee of Ukraine’s Local Self-Government”. This introduces honorary titles for individual categories of workers — geologists, pilots, test pilots, resort workers, local self-government workers. The introduction of honorary titles for these categories of workers does not exactly correspond to the sector principle of the system of honours, as enshrined in section 2 of Article 10 of the Law on State Prizes, which provides for the assignment of honours to persons working in the relevant economic and socio-cultural spheres. Moreover, such innovation narrows down the value of the State reward itself as a higher form of citizens' recognition for the outstanding merits of economic, scientific and cultural development, social spheres, as provided for in article 1 of the law. In order to identify professional achievements, national legislation provides classes, rankings, categories, and landmarks. It should also be noted that the present system of national awards in Ukraine offers a wide range of awards, including 38 honors. This allows to some extent the rights of citizens to be rewarded for personal merit before the state. It should also be borne in mind that the implementation of the law will result in additional expenditures from the State Budget of Ukraine. In connection with the Ukrainian President-in-Office, it is proposed to reject the Law of Ukraine amending article 10 of the Law on State Prizes. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the proposal made by the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u233	Thank you, Marina Ivanovna, sit down, please. Committee position. I invite you to address Bodnar Olga Borisovna, the first deputy head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government. Please, Olga Borisovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u234	Thank you. Dear colleagues, honourable chairman, distinguished voters! The Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government at its meeting on February 6, 2008, considered the proposals of the President of Ukraine to the Act on Amendments to Article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on State Prizes for Unappreciable Use of Honorary Names of Ukraine: A Deserving Flyer of Ukraine, A Deserving Pilot of Ukraine, A Deserved Geologist of Ukraine, A Deserving Employee of Ukrainian Resorts and A Deserving Officer of Ukraine's Local Self-Government. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion of 16 January 2008, proposes to accept the proposal of the President of Ukraine regarding the irrelevance of the establishment of honorary titles: the Deserved Tested Pilot, the Deserving Officer of the Ukrainian resorts and the Deserved Officer of Local Self-Government. And the President's proposal to cancel honours – the Deserved Geologist of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Air Forceman Deserved – is not supported. During the discussion at the meeting of the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee, a majority of the votes were decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to agree with the President of Ukraine's proposals for amendments to article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on State Prizes and to reject the prescribed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u235	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Honorary colleagues, the President of Ukraine proposes to reject the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 10 of the Ukrainian Act on State Prizes. The committee, after considering the reasoning of the President of Ukraine, agreed with his reasoning. Therefore, I am voting on the proposal of the President of Ukraine to reject the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on National Awards, Registration No. 0865, please vote. [[13:09:58]] For 212 The decision is not taken. May I have your attention, please? The second sentence is now put to the vote. Overcoming the President's veto. If there are no 300 votes, the law will be rejected. This is why a second vote is put to the vote on the President's veto on the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on State Prizes. Registration number 0865. [[13:10:44]] For 176 The decision is not taken, the law is rejected. It is announced for consideration by the Ukrainian Act “On Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Executive Conduct” with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 13.06.2007. Registration number 0862, reporter, Deputy Head of the Ukrainian Presidential Secretariat, Stavniychuk Marina Ivanovna. Coroner is the head of the Committee on Justice's subcommittee Pisarenko Valeriy Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u236	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies and present at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! In April 2007, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Implementing Implementation. By this law, which has been signed by the President of Ukraine, it is proposed to introduce the positions under which the authorities of the State Executive Service are entitled to recalculate the funds received from the confiscation of the property within three days of such implementation or the sale into the deposit account of the relevant authorities. It is envisaged that, within three days of such listing, three banking days, the funds will be recalculated from the deposit account of the State Executive Services to the State Budget of Ukraine to the change to article 75 of the Ukrainian Law on Executive Implementation. This provision does not meet the requirements of part four of article 50 of the Ukrainian budget code, under which taxes, assemblies, compulsory payments and other incomes of the State budget are credited directly to the sole treasury account of the State Budget of Ukraine and cannot be accumulated in the collection accounts. Under such circumstances, the President of Ukraine, in his article two chapters of the first law to be signed by the President, paragraph three, reads: “The proceeds received from the confiscation of property during the three banking days following its sale are credited to the sole treasury account of the State budget of Ukraine. Paragraph 4 of this article is deleted. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the proposal made by the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u237	Thank you, Marina Ivanovna. Valery Volodymyrovich Pisarenko, please. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u238	Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Justice considered, at its meeting, the law of Ukraine amending the Ukrainian law on implementing implementation with the proposals of the President. The bill provides for improvements in the procedure for the implementation of confiscated property. I would like to point out that this bill has been considered for quite some time in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and refers to those bills that have yet to be adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. He received the President’s proposal that a final decision should not be taken in connection with the suspension of the term of office of the Supreme Council. As a result of the review, the committee decided to propose to the Supreme Council to reject the President's proposals for Ukrainian law and to refer him to the Justice Committee. When the decision was taken, the Justice Committee concluded that taking into account only the President's proposals without further changes to legislation could have a negative impact on the implementation of decisions on confiscated property. Block the realisation of such assets and reduce the control function of the DSB authorities behind the organizations that implement them. In addition, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, reported that the adoption of the bill in connection with the development of a new concept had become obsolete. Today, we will probably be with you in half an hour to consider bill 2782, which deals with this issue in a complex with other issues. A representative of the Ministry of Justice is already here and the law will be under review in a few minutes. So today, on this bill, our committee invites the Supreme Council of Ukraine to vote in favour of sending this bill to the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u239	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's stick to the rules. So the vote will be put to such a sequence, first of all, these are the President's proposals, which are clearly formulated. If they are not supported, I will put the President's veto to the vote, if the President's veto is not overtaken, the law will be rejected, and what the committee is proposing is totally out of line. So take the law, please. The President of Ukraine's proposal is put to the vote there by two proposals from the President. The first sentence of paragraph 3 reads as follows: “Costs received from the confiscation of property during the three banking days following its sale are counted in the sole treasury account of the State budget of Ukraine”. The first amendment of the President of Ukraine is being voted on. [[13:16:08]] For 210 Correction not supported. The voting shall be amended as follows: paragraph four shall be deleted. Please. Determine by Voting. [[13:16:35]] For-195 The decision is not taken. There is a vote on the proposal to overcome the veto on the Ukrainian Presidential Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Implementing Implementation. Registration number 0862. [[13:17:10]] For-174 The law is rejected. The reporter, our colleague said that we would now consider a law that partially regulates those norms. We'll have to accept it then. Please, Roman Zvarich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u240	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! In fact, I agree with the proposal made by the committee of profile, which makes a proposal entirely within the limits of the Rules that if the law is not adopted, it may be sent to the committee for further work. That is exactly what article 130, part 8, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, deals with the procedural issue of the veto of the President of Ukraine. So I would ask you to make a motion to the committee for a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u241	Please tell me one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u242	Dear colleagues! After the Supreme Council of Ukraine has passed the law, only the President of Ukraine can make proposals to change its text. And after considering these suggestions, you can determine whether to support them or not to support them. This is regulated by the Basic Law of the Ukrainian State. And no other normative act can change constitutional norms. So in this case, we have only one way: either to support the President's proposals, or to pass the veto on to the law according to the established procedure, the Basic Law of Ukraine. There are no other options in Ukrainian law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u243	Please, Adam Martinyuk. Microphone, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u244	Thank you! Martinuk is a faction of Communists. As always, two lawyers are wrong, more than both former ministers of justice. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me explain both of you. On the one hand, Roman Mikhailovich is right, but half, he didn't count the other nuance. We were looking at the President's proposals today after we sent the Law Committee to work on it. We've already sent the Law to the committee for further work, and the committee hasn't worked on it. Therefore the Head rightly put to the vote the question: either to support the President's proposals, which were not supported, or to overcome a veto that was not overcome. There's no need to send the committee again, because we've already sent the committee to work on it, so the law is gone, period.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u245	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues, I'm asking you, dear colleagues, what are we going to do about this debate? The procedure is clear. If the committee considered it necessary to process and bring it up, it would immediately introduce the bill and it would not have done anything about it. So let us follow the Rules. Please don't call your last name, but please give me the Zvaric line.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u246	Vladimir Mikhailovich, this is a very important procedural issue. I understand the argument of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but there is no exception in the Rules to how many times an appropriate bill can be submitted for further elaboration after the law has been passed in this case, after the unconquered veto and the law has not been approved. Again, I draw attention to the distribution of part of article 130 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, which confers such rights on the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We are now setting a precedent and we need to understand how to be. I would ask the regulatory committee on this point to reach its conclusion at least.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u247	Dear colleagues, in order to conclude the discussion, I would like to say that in article 130 there are only four points. There's no easy eight points. I want to tell you that in the Supreme Council Rules, article 130 is just four points. The draft Law on the National Targeted Economic Programme for the Monitoring of Residues of Veterinary Substances and Contaminants in Live Animals, Animal Products and Feed, as well as in food products controlled by the Veterinary Service, is being announced for 2009-2014. Registration number 3402. The rapporteur is Minister of Agriculture Yuri Fedorovich Melnik. Correspondent is the deputy head of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, Sergey Mikolayovich Ribuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u248	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, your opinion is proposed by the draft Law on the National Targeted Economic Programme for the Monitoring of Residues of Veterinary Substances and Contaminants in Live Animals, Animal Products and Feed, as well as in food products controlled by the Veterinary Service for 2009-2014. The purpose of the bill is to improve the quality and safety of animal products, food products controlled by the Veterinary Service and feed; to inform consumers of the risks associated with the use of low-quality food products and the use of food containing residues of veterinary medicines and pollutants; and to expand the markets for the marketing of animal products of Ukrainian production by meeting international legislation requirements. The introduction of the bill in Ukraine is an integral part of the implementation of international requirements, including European legislation in the legalization of exports of animal products of Ukrainian origin. In accordance with the European Union directive, States should adopt laws, regulations and regulations necessary to monitor residues of veterinary medicinal products and pollutants in live animals, products of animal origin and feed. The adoption of the bill will also contribute to the introduction of a new transparent system of scientific analysis of the risks associated with food products that will enable a domestic consumer to guarantee the safety of animal products and feed, as well as food products under the control of the Veterinary Service, so that the competitiveness of animal products of Ukrainian origin and their exit to the external markets can be greatly improved. Funding of the programme will be done at the expense of the state budget, and if the results of the surveys are positive, the re-investigation will be carried out at the expense of the owner. The program will result in: First. Reducing consumer market intake of animal products and feed, as well as food products with residual amounts of veterinary products and pollutants. The other one. Ensure that full-scale laboratory research is carried out, as well as that they are carried out by state laboratories of veterinary medicine at all levels. Third.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u249	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u250	laboratory studies carried out in reference laboratories abroad. Enhancing the competitiveness of animal products. Securing funds into the state budget from international trade. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u251	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Sergei Mikolaiovich Ribuk of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u252	Respectful national deputies are indeed the purpose of the bill, namely, to carry out measures aimed at improving the quality and safety of animal products, food products under the control of the veterinary service and feed, to inform consumers comprehensively about the risks associated with the consumption of low-quality food products, as well as the use of feed containing residues of veterinary products and pollutants, as well as to expand markets for the sale of animal products of Ukrainian origin through the fulfilment of international legislation. As you can see, this is very vicious and today the implementation of the draft act does not provide for changes to existing legal acts, does not require the development of new legal acts. Monitoring in residual amounts of veterinary drugs and pollutants in live animals, in animal products and in feed, and in food products, control services are carried out at the expense of the State Budget, which is not a burden on the consumer. The conclusion of the Agrarian Policy Committee coincides with the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority that the bill can be accepted on the basis of the first reading. Of course, we hope that this bill, which will become the law, will improve the quality of food and will adequately preserve the health of the Ukrainian people. Thank you. Please support this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u253	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the bill. I'd like you to put your name on the National MP board. Pavlov Mojčan, please, the faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u254	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head! I understand that I will support this bill, based on the fact that Ukraine has inherited an extremely large number of dangerous substances in Ukraine that are concentrated since the time of the union. And without the presence of structures that would track, analyze and warn citizens and the whole society from the fact that we are already poisoned, as they say, by the day of the soul. And so I agree with the warnings made by the expert commission of our law that the implementation of the program will reduce the risk of entering the consumer market of dangerous products of animal origin and feed, as well as food products controlled by the veterinary service. So this is going to give us the opportunity not only to monitor, but also to influence. And so I think that this bill must be supported by all factions and all the composition of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u255	National Deputy Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u256	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” Our faction and the parliamentary group support the draft Law on the National Targeted Economic Program for Monitoring Residues of Veterinary Substances and Pollutants, because this is exactly what veterinary doctors like to say about themselves, that they treat all mankind. Because the absence of constant monitoring in food products, the feeding of highly active substances that have harmful effects on the body, antibiotics, pesticides, steroids, non-steroidal drugs, sedatives, and so on, this is a guarantee of deteriorating human health. And in order to prevent diseases, allergies, human immunodeficiency, oncosis, and a variety of chronic intoxications that come with products, this program is too important. But really, we need to take the basis and think about which list can still be included. We're talking about an iodine deficiency, we can also define the amount of iodine, and we can use these things even to preserve health. That is why we support the law on the basis of the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u257	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. The committee's proposal to accept the project as a basis. May I have your attention, please? The draft Law on the General Purpose Economic Programme for the Monitoring of Residues of Veterinary Substances and Contaminants in Live Animals, Animal Products and Feed, as well as in food products controlled by the Veterinary Service for 2009-2014, is submitted to the vote for adoption as a basis. Registration number 3402. Please vote. [[13:30:51]] For 396 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences, registration number 2609, is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is Minister of Agricultural Policy Melnik Yuri Fedorovich. Correspondent is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement issues, Victor Viktorovich Shemchuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u258	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! You are being reviewed by the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences. In recent years, there has been a significant increase in the number of infringements of veterinary medicine by operators of various forms of property. For the time being, the maximum fine on citizens for violations of veterinary legislation amounts to one non-taxable minimum of citizens' income, and for officials up to six untaxed minimums. At the same time, I would like to point out that fines haven't changed since 1997. Given the relatively small amount of the fine, today there is such a situation that violators easily pay them -- and continue to engage in illegal activities. Therefore, the bill proposes to increase the amount of fines per citizen to 10 non-taxed minimum incomes and to 20 non-taxable minimum incomes per official, as well as to give veterinary police inspectors the right to examine material on violations of veterinary legislation and to make appropriate decisions. The purpose of the bill is also to include in the drafting of protocols on administrative infringements in veterinary medicine, which are provided for in articles 42.1, 42.3, 188/22, of the veterinary police’s veterinary department for quarantine. The bill envisages strengthening the responsibility of citizens and officials to meet the legal requirements of officials of the State Veterinary Service for the destruction of products that are considered hazardous. The bill is also strengthened to strengthen administrative responsibility for violating animal quarantine rules and other animal health requirements. The proposed bill aims at reducing the number of infringements of veterinary legislation, protecting the internal market from inequitable products of animal origin, reducing the risk of developing and spreading dangerous diseases, including those common to animals and humans. People's deputies would like to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u259	Thank you. Victor Viktorovich Shemczak, please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u260	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, Honorary Fellows, Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement at its meeting, considered a bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine amending the Code of Administrative Offences. The bill proposes to amend articles 107 and 238 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Violations with a view to further improving the state regulation of relations with regard to the use of administrative responsibility for infringements of animal quarantine and other veterinary and sanitary rules. The veterinary department of the Ministry of Health, its regional authorities and territorial authorities have been set up to provide practical assistance to state veterinary medical authorities in the organization and to monitor and supervise the implementation of animal health requirements for the prevention, localization and eradication of animal quarantine diseases. Therefore, the extension of the powers provided for in article 238 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Violations to State Veterinary Authorities makes sense. The adoption of this law will, first of all, allow the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences to be introduced in accordance with other regulations governing the activities of the national veterinary authorities, will allow for the improvement of the legal regulation of the activities of the State veterinary health authorities to which veterinary health units apply, to improve the effectiveness of measures in the field of quality and safety of food products and to improve the safety of products coming to the consumer market in Ukraine. After reviewing the draft law, the committee considers it necessary to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by adopting it as a basis for the first reading. This is also the view of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, and the bill is supported by the Committees of the Supreme Council on Health and Budget. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u261	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the exchange of information on the draft law. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. No one showed a desire. So there's full support, and there's a reporter, and there's a co-reporter. A draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences for adoption is put to the vote. Registration number 2609. Please vote. [[13:36:19]] For 381 Decision taken. A draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the activities of the State Service for Special Communications and Information Protection, registration number 2501, is being announced for consideration. The reporter is the head of the State Office for Special Communications and Information Protection, Chebotarenko Yuri Borisovich. The Coroner is the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u262	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Draft law developed by the Administration of the State Office for Special Liaison and Protection of Information of Ukraine to carry out the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information of Ukraine. The project is intended to amend a number of other legislative acts in order to bring them into compliance with the Ukrainian Law on the State Special Liaison and Information Protection Service, as well as to regulate the activities of the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information regarding the implementation of its powers and the dissemination of the standards of certain legislative acts against members of the ordinary and primary staff and the staff of the State Department. The draft law is in agreement with interested central executives, as well as the Ukrainian Security Service. Their suggestions and observations are taken into account, and differences are settled. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u263	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko, head of the National Security and Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u264	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Our committee unanimously supported the bill in the first reading. And I'm also asking you to support him. In doing so, Parliament has been playing an important role in legislativeizing the activities of this important special service, which has been isolated for more than two years, working separately from the Security Service, but the key issues of legislative security have not been resolved. We suggest that they be resolved and supported by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u265	There's a need to discuss it, isn't there? Let's sign up, please. I'd like you to put on the board the name of the national MPs who signed up. Adam Ivanovich Martijuk, please. We continue our morning session for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u266	Dear colleagues, I confess to the spirit. When we were reforming the Security Service, I was not very supportive of the fact that the Security Service was stretched out in different directions: the External Intelligence Service, a special liaison, was the Department of State Security, which had already been taken away. But now I'm convinced that we did the right thing. Because there's no service right now, it wouldn't be what was at the service. Regrettably, the State Special Liaison Service has been operating for two years outside the law in essence. So it works within the framework of the law that we passed on the service, but in the service, as it separated itself from the Ukrainian Security Service, it doesn't spread in too much regret all the social benefits that they had in this service. And there's no doubt that the bill that we're looking at right now is filling this gap. We must be supportive of this bill. And I think by looking at it this way, one part of the bill is carrying technological changes, because everywhere the Security Service was and other law enforcement agencies are adding a new service, a state special service. And the second part, where it concerns the social issues of military law enforcement officials and special status bodies, is also added to the list of all those who have these benefits, the headquarters and other military officials of this service, simply lists the name of the public service. That's why I think the committee has reported that the committee's chairman that they've made decisions there are representatives of each of our factions have decided on this bill unanimously. I would ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to put to the vote a proposal for acceptance both in the first reading and in general, as a law, let the boys serve.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u267	Thank you. Dear colleagues! There are no more speakers, so please note that the proposal for a committee to adopt is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on the Activities of the State Service for Special Communications and Protection of Information. Registration number 2501, please vote. [[13:41:37]] For 233 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Here was a proposal, since there is full support and there is no objection, to put to the vote in second reading and in general as a law. Who denies it? You don't? Therefore, I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general as a bill of the Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the activity of the State Service for Special Communications and Protection of Information. Registration number 2501, please vote. [[13:42:27]] For the 250. The law is passed. A draft law on the amendment of the Ukrainian Law on Value Added Tax is being announced for consideration. [[on taxation of international transport services]] Registration number 3552. The rapporteur is Ukraine's first Deputy Finance Minister, Igor Ivanovich Umanski. The focal point will be the chairman of the Tax and Customs Policy Committee, Sergey Anatoliyovich Teryochin. Dear colleagues, this situation has just been reported that Umanski has gone to the hospital, so let the committee report. Well, that's the ministry we have, but we really need a law, your honorary colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u268	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting on 17 February, discussed the draft law of Ukraine amending the Law on Added Value Taxation on International Transport Services. The draft law provides for taxation of the added cost of transport services related to the international transport of goods by road, both within Ukraine and abroad, at zero rates. This document, which testifies to the fact that such transport is carried, is the International Freight and Transport consignment note SMR. According to Mintrans, VAT liabilities amount to 110-140 million dollars a year, which will cost the budget. At the same time, the measure will provide an opportunity to compensate for the loss of the State budget and to complete it by increasing the production and payment of taxes on business activities. So the adoption of the proposed changes will allow you to pay an additional 30-35 million dollars for the cancellation of tax liabilities. Members of the committee, supporting the legislative proposal as a whole, stress that, with a view to bringing it to directive two thousand and six 112 EU on a common system of value added tax and to article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Freight and Expedition, it is appropriate to develop a legislative proposal and replace the words “international transport consignment note” with the words “international car consignment note”. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council notes that the project can be taken as a basis. In view of the foregoing, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of project 3552 as a basis for the first reading. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u269	Dear colleagues! Please register to discuss the draft law. Please state on board the name of the national deputies who have been registered. Valentin Grigorovitch Matthews, please. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u270	Dear colleagues! I must immediately say that I am pleased to support the words of the Head of the Profit Committee, whom I have often criticized here -- Sergey Terhochina, who really needs to support this bill. You have to. Let's think about why. We have recently witnessed the blocking of the city of Kiev. You and I have witnessed television broadcasts of Odessa's carriers blocking the Odessa route. And unfortunately, in the course of this blockage, there were a lot of these unpleasant things that happened when people lost consciousness, and some even lost their lives in this care. The financial crisis has hit all sectors of the national economy painfully, including, it is clear, that it has hit the international car transports very painfully because there is nothing to drive, as each nation's products produce less; other, more severe conditions are placed on the job; the banking system has begun to tow, and very many vans have lived on account of their taking credit, buying cars, buying cars, transport in two or three years, or five years from the financial and economic plan, to return this loan by earning money on their own small or medium-sized business. Now, unfortunately, it's all been a bit of a screwdriver. And so we really need to look for at least the slightest opportunity to help this area of our national economy, where enough and enough people are occupied. I think, Sergey Anatolyovich, if, with your amendment you've been talking about, the committee's proposal to vote in the first reading, and considering your amendment as a whole, as a law, with the committee's proposal. Let's support it. So let's not pull it because the length is negative on this category of people.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u271	Dear colleagues! We've discussed the draft Law, so I'm going to put it to a vote as a basis, and we're going to continue to determine the position of the committee here. May I have your attention, please? A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law “On Value Added Tax ” is put to the vote. Registration number 3552, to be accepted as a basis. [[13:48:33]] For 241 Decision taken. Here was an offer to accept in the second reading and in general as the Law, yet there is a denial. So, your honors, let's assign a committee to shorten the deadline for his preparation and put him on trial for the next plenary week. I'm putting this motion to a vote. Please be supportive. [[13:49:10]] For 231 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Act amending the Law on Immigration is being announced for consideration. [[in the case of underage children]] Registration number 2124. Justice Minister Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich, co-rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations, Mr. Jury Vasilovich. Please, Mikolo Vasilovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u272	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies! The law, the bill that has just to be reported. The need for its development is due to the fact that during the armed conflicts that took place in the Republic of Georgia and Abkhazia, a large number of citizens from these countries came to the territory of our country in fact, Ukraine was then willing to provide humanitarian assistance. Thus, the proposed amendment to the said Immigration Act aimed at the proper realization of the right to immigration in Ukraine of foreigners and stateless persons who, through armed conflicts, were forced to leave their permanent residence in the Autonomous Republic of Abkhazia, Georgia, arrived in Ukraine and received, pursuant to the Cabinet of Ministers Regulation of 26 June 1996 on measures to provide assistance to persons who were forced to leave permanent residence in the Autonomous Republic of Georgia and arrived in Ukraine for temporary assistance. The law suggests that a full - time daughter, a son, a listed category of persons who had arrived in Ukraine, along with their parents before reaching adulthood, would now not have been fully understood because they were children and applied for permanent residence permits in Ukraine. That is, the law deals with the legal and proper presence in Ukraine of the children of those who in due course had to leave the areas of armed conflict. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u273	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u274	As you understand from the minister’s report, it is about standardizing some of the events in 1995 when numerous refugees from the Abkhaz Autonomous Republic of Georgia arrived in Ukraine. As you can see, the adults received appropriate temporary assistance that gave them the right to reside in Ukraine. Then their teenage children did not receive such information. Therefore, the text of the section of the Immigration Act gives a brief addition to the fact that the right to live is spread to young children who were then underage children and who are now adults. According to the data we have on the committee, there are 1,200 adults and about 300 children who are now adults. Since we had a positive conclusion from the Legal-Expert Authority, our committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of this law in the first reading and in general. By the way, I would like to remind you that I still have a few seconds left in Ukraine that we have not only had a problem with refugees from Abkhazia, but we remember that since the time of the former Soviet Union, a large group of Vietnamese, for example, who have worked here under agreements with the Republic of Vietnam, have stayed in them, children have been born, and obviously we will also have to solve this problem. But in developing a topic here that many liked last time I reported, I want to tell you that we need to put our migration practices in order and as long as we have an open border, and it's practically the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u275	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u276	As long as it is protected by young foreigners and national wives, we will have great problems with illegal refugees on our borders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u277	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss these laws?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u278	The point is that in 1994, one minute, an appropriate law was passed, but the children who had just grown up had to be given appropriate help. Is there no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u279	It is put to the vote for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Immigration Act, registration number 2124. [[in the case of underage children]] Please vote. [[13:54:59]] For 355 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a proposal, because it's a very specific law, it's meant to be, clearly, accepted in a second reading, and generally as a law. No objections? No objections? Then I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and generally as a bill of the bill amending the Ukrainian Immigration Act. [[in the case of underage children]] Registration number 2124. Please vote. [[13:55:46]] For 362 The law is passed. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the basis of the review of judicial decisions is being announced for consideration. We moved on 15 minutes already half an hour ago. Here we go, dear fellows. I've announced. Reporter – Justice Minister Mikola Vasilovich Onischuk, co-rapporteur – Head of the Justice Committee of Novikov Julia Volodymyrna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u280	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Ukraine is known to be a party to the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. In other words, by ratifying that convention, we extended ourselves and recognized the jurisdiction of the European Court of Human Rights. Article 46 of the Convention stipulates that a State against which a decision has been taken by the European Court of Justice is obliged to take measures of general and individual reaction to that decision by the courts. This means that the Ukrainian judicial system, in particular the Ukrainian courts, is bound by decisions that are binding on them. on which the European Court of Justice has approved an appropriate decision to review these decisions, which are approved by national courts. However, procedural legislation, such as the Criminal Procedure Code, the Code of Administrative Justice, the Civil Procedure Code, the Master Procedural Code as a basis, does not contain a decision by the European Court of Justice as a basis for review, which in fact creates numerous difficulties for Ukrainian citizens to exercise their legitimate rights, which are recognised by such a European Court of Justice. The essence of the law is to provide an additional basis in the relevant procedural laws for the review of judicial decisions that the European Court of Justice and the recognition of human rights violations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u281	Thank you. Sit down, Mikola Vasilovich. Please, from the committee of Novak's Julia Volodymyrna. Who will report from the committee? Dear colleagues, the committee recommends acceptance as a basis. Is there a need to discuss this law? Who insists on the discussion? None. A proposal is put to the vote for a committee to adopt as a basis for the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the basis of the review of judicial decisions. [[Registration number 2015]] Please vote. [[13:58:59]] For 327 Decision taken. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the improvement of enforcement procedures is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 2782]] The rapporteur is Justice Minister Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich. Coroner is the head of the Committee on Justice's subcommittee Pisarenko Valeriy Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u282	Thank you. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, an extremely important law, I'm drawing your attention because this is essentially about updating legislation that regulates the stage of enforcement. There is no need to further substantiate what we are today and society, and public authorities are dissatisfied with the state of enforcement of judicial decisions. And much of the problems in this kingdom lie in the imperfections of national legislation, which regulates, in particular, the activities of the State Executive Service. What does this bill basically foresee? First of all, we have set the goal of changing the role of borrower in the execution system. I have to point out that it's not surprising, but it's the borrower in executive conduct that has essentially unlimited rights, in order to reach and use the procedural possibilities offered by law, in order to stop the execution of the conduct, whether to slow it down, or to upset it, which causes a perfectly fair complaint to those who are recognized by the court as a conscientious party to the social relationship, who is the creditor, who is a conscientious party to the contract. We, in particular, provide that the debtor, in the event that the execution of the judgment is already under way, has the right to charge the actions of the executioner in a way that is not subordinate to another small supervisor who abuses these rights, but only to the courts, in order to ensure and extend judicial control over the stage of the execution of judgments. In addition, the law provides for the extension of the State’s rights to search for property that has been arrested when the debtor evades his or her obligations and the court’s decision, such as granting the right of the State’s executioner to state registers, such as taxes, and a register of motor vehicles. There is also a change in the system for the implementation of the arrested property, such as the proposal to supplement the right to commission trade, and a number of other very important proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u283	Finish up, Mikola Vasilovich. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u284	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this bill. I hereby state that all these steps are intended only to improve the efficiency of the execution of decisions and of the activities of the State Executive Service. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u285	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The committee's report is Valérie Volodymyrovich Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u286	Dear colleagues, well, it's actually the beginning of a little reform of executive leadership. This is not the last draft that Minjust prepared for our consideration today. And then we're going to have a bill that's now being considered in the Cabinet of Ministers, including a private executive service, and other innovations in this area. Of course, there are many questions before this bill today. But as a whole, our committee shares the view that the first reading of this process should be followed by the adoption of this law. But I think the Ministry of Justice understands that the process will be complicated. Because today, in fact, it's about a new piece of legislation, and I feel there's going to be a serious enough process to discuss relevant changes to this law on the committee. So today, in general, by sharing the idea of reforming this system, of introducing money into this system, I, the committee's decision is to support the first reading and move on to reform, including other bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u287	Thank you. Two in, two in. Please log in. Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u288	I, Your Honor Alexander Volodymyrovich, will really take a minute. I insist that this is an extremely important bill. We're doing everything right now to help whoever's guilty. A person in court has won and implemented often, especially where debt obligations last for years. Because the procedure is so prescribed that the truth is, more precisely, not true, but the procedure on the side of the party that blamed it, which is to cover, for example, the debt. Yesterday at the parliamentary hearings on the state of judicial reform, we talked about the fact that court hearings have been going on for years. How long does the execution and execution of the court’s decision last? Even more, two, three times more. Therefore, the harshness of the procedure, the harshness of the attitude toward the one who lost the court, should be unequivocal. We support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u289	Thank you. The discussion is over. I am voting on the basis of a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the enforcement procedure. Registration number 2782. Please vote. [[14:05:05]] For three hundred Decision taken. A draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[B in m in s a l in]] Since the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has announced an extension of the morning plenary session for 15 minutes, I am announcing a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on universal telecommunications services, registration number 3683. Reported to the head of the National Liaison Commission of Kolobov Sergey Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u290	Dear Chief, distinguished national MPs! Draft Law 3683 aims to implement the State guarantee announced in the Telecommunications Act of 2003 to provide citizens of Ukraine with access to public or universal telecommunications services at tariffs established by the State, irrespective of where they live, is equal to 50 copies per month. The main problem is that the cost of providing such services in rural areas exceeds the tariff set by the State several times. In doing so, the damage compensation mechanism, which was to be developed and applied in 2003, is still missing. The total amount of damage from universal service providers in Ukraine is about a billion dollars last year. Operators are forced to stop providing these services, and millions of our most vulnerable citizens, those who do not have the capacity to use other services, such as mobile communication, are left without the ability to pick up and call for help. What is more, there is still a million calls in Ukraine. More than two thousand settlements are not telephoned at all. And unfortunately, mobile operators are not in a hurry to provide services for 9.50 a month. The option that we're proposing in the bill is to go through most of the world's 152 countries by creating a universal service fund in the state budget. It is to be formed at the expense of a congregation of 3 percent of the cost of service provided by operators as a target supplement. Our belief is that this supplement, and in absolute terms it's one bracelet, fifty a month's bracelet, doesn't have a significant impact on the consumer basket of an average citizen, but it will solve the very important social problem. And if we don't do it now, it's going to explode and it can quickly become a disaster. We ask very much for the support of this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u291	Thank you. Have a seat, please. According to the account, Yuri Borisovich Krock. Communicator, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u292	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues! At its meeting on 5 February, our General Committee on Most Votes voted in favour of the draft law being adopted on first reading. And I ask you to support the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u293	Thank you, Yuri Borisovich. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss? Nobody insists? There's an insistence. Let's sign up, please. Kolesniki Dmitry Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u294	I would like to give the floor to my colleague Moroko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u295	Dear colleagues, the faction of the Party of the Regions will not vote in favour of the bill, because it is based on an anti-social idea to address the problem exclusively through the pocket of the population. All countries are now trying to reduce the tax and price burden on their citizens. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine proposes that an additional one billion bracelets be removed from the population each year. To this end, the bill provides for a three-per-cent increase in prices for all, I stress, all telecommunications services: telegraph, television, cable television, Internet, rural, urban, intercity, international and so on. The price increase proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers will affect every Ukrainian citizen. It's an honest tax on the poor. The official objective is to obtain funds by telephone. In fact, a hole in the pre-sales budget of Skrutelecom. Hence the urgency and priority of the bill. Now it's about the country's telephone problem. It's called two digits, two thousand villages don't have fixed phones. And in Ukraine, there are only 36 settlements that do not have a telephone connection, and by the end of the year, there will be zero such settlements. This is already from a speech by the Deputy Minister of Transport in January before the press. That is, mobile, wireless technologies are doing their own progressive work. So why does the Cabinet of Ministers think that charging billions into the country with a cable phone, with a telephone cable, is the only right way to solve this problem? I would suggest that, if 2,000 villages where there are no fixed phones to buy and distribute 250 mobile phones, the annual billions of dollars planned by the Cabinet of Ministers will still be available for four thousand minutes each of these telephone calls. Or 11 minutes a day during the year. Why isn't there a solution? If we really want to solve the problem of telephoneling the village, let us not take hasty decisions, and we will have the Cabinet of Ministers read everything, consider and make the best decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u296	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u297	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear National Deputies! You've obviously pointed out that there's no financial justification that the budget committee didn't pass this law, and I came to the representatives of the Committee on Budgets. You've obviously noticed that, unfortunately, the painting is good today, which was according to the bills that the government gave us are now being lubricated. It's smeared with what they're trying to get into our pocket with you right now with just a quarter and a half of a billion dollars. All of it. What if 30 villages today are not on the telephone, who will you call? We're going to be setting up a fund for administration that's going to have to be spent. Ladies and gentlemen! Obviously that's not what our nation needs right now. I think that these bills need to be cut at the level of expert management, and I'm surprised that the expert board didn't notice something like this, it's just strange that things like this should happen to me. And to ask the question that such bills carry an expensive part that is very serious for all consumers. Although this note says there will be about 900 million dollars, we counted on a break and we had a million and a half. I strongly oppose the adoption, one and a half billion, of this bill and I urge you not to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-19-m0.u298	Thank you. The discussion is over. In order to restore justice, I want to say that in the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, this bill is not supported and the argument coincides in part with that of Yuri Anatoliyovich. I am voting on the basis of a draft law amending some of Ukraine's laws to ensure access to universal telecommunications services. Registration number 3683. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:13:50]] For-166 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. There's a break until 4:00. The morning plenary session is closed.
