ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:39]] Cards were registered in the 420 Ukrainian National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Cibenka Petar Stepanović, the head of the Ukrainian Veterans' Council. [[Applause]] Peter Stepanovich was 60 years old. Let’s welcome our colleague and get along with him in good health. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meetings on June 4, 2009. 34 questions on the agenda were considered: 13 laws and six decrees were passed, five bills and one draft decree were adopted on a basis; one bill was sent for re-reading; one bill was returned to the committee for re-reading; one bill was adopted on second reading and one was sent for third reading; and two bills were rejected. As a result of a review of President of Ukraine's proposals, the veto of the President of Ukraine has been overtaken by one law and one law has been rejected, i.e. the veto of the President of Ukraine has not been overtaken. According to article 25 of the Rules, on Friday 30 minutes are taken to make inquiries. Allow me to announce the parliamentary requests that have come to the Secretariat and have been properly formulated. MICHELLE RUDEN to the President of Ukraine regarding the failure to respond to a parliamentary appeal regarding the improper performance of his duties as temporary head of the Brussels State Administration of the Zitomir Region, Victor Grebenik. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:03:58]] For 269 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:04:18]] For 284 Decision taken. SERGY VOCENA to the President of Ukraine on the elimination of violations of legislation in the work of the Kiev City State Administration on the restoration of the rights of residents of the city of Kiev. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:04:51]] For-300 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:05:11]] For 284 Decision taken. Jury KRUKA to the President of Ukraine on the inappropriate response of the Odessa District State Administration to the housing of citizens affected by the gas explosion in the village of Fontanka Kominternov district of Odessa. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:05:46]] For 318 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:06:12]] For 312 The request is addressed to the President of Ukraine. Mr. Andrija PORTNOVA and Mr. Vladimir PILIPENKA to the President of Ukraine for the immediate release of the deputy head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Anatolia Pavlenko, in connection with his involvement in the illegal listening of Ukrainian citizens. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:06:50]] For 319 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:07:09]] For 316 The request is addressed to the President of Ukraine. John ZAJIJA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the situation that took place in the village of Cibliv Preyaslav-Hmelnicki district of Kyiv with the allocation of land particles of pies using useful fossils of local importance with the activity of the village head. Mr. Andria PAVLOWSKO to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on complaints from the territorial community of the Holy District of Kiev regarding the actions of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine aimed at destroying the green zone on Lvivska Street, 15. Andrija SKILLY to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the failure of the government to perform its tasks of increasing domestic gas production. [[sabotage by Ilya Rybčić, head of the State Company of Crushing]] Valentina MATWEJEVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent solution to the financing of the capital repair of the bridge across the Dnipro River in the Cherkasa district and the organization of proper rail transport services. Vassil SPAK to the Prime Minister on the regulation of legal acts relating to passenger transport. VICTOR SANZENKA to the Prime Minister on the strategy for the reform of the beet-sugar sector in Ukraine. Victoria DEMJANČUK to the Prime Minister on the need to develop a standard scheme for the separation of state traffic and local traffic management. Vladimir HERASIMČUKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the unsatisfying movement of anti-removal work in the Chernjevic region. Mr. Vladimir DANILENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the adoption of measures to halt the massacre of cows in the private rural and private farms of the region of Lebedin district of Suma. Vladimir YAROSCHUKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the completion of the construction of two doors of residence No.15 on the prospect of the 50th anniversary of Victory in the city of Melitopolis of Zaporezki district. Mr. Viacheslav KOVALJA to the Prime Minister on the urgent need for funding programmes and measures for the implementation of State youth policy in connection with the 2009 Year of Youth in Ukraine. Edouard PRUTNIK to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need to verify the information provided in the collective appeal of residents of the village of Sivoloz in the Chernigiv region on the destruction of livestock and mass unemployment of peasants, the non-payment of property rations and partial non-payment of land leases of agricultural and land parcels in accordance with Presidential Decree No.92/2002 on additional measures for the social protection of peasant owners of land rations and land particles " dated 2 February 2002. [[pears]] Igor ŠAROV to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the unsatisfactory status of carrying out the programme of flood management in the region of Chernovets. MICHELLA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to allocate funds from the Stabilisation Fund for anticorrosive protection of the metal structures of the South Bridge in Dnipropetrovsk. Caterina VASCHUK to the Prime Minister for the restoration of the procedure for the issuance and redesign of licences by the Ministry of Environmental Protection of Ukraine for the use of mineral deposits, primarily for peat, in order to prevent the state tortrobricket enterprises from stopping. Mikoli Komara to the Prime Minister to speed up the allocation of additional funds from the State Budget to ensure the treatment of diabetics. Mr. Mikoli Komara to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of funding in 2009 for the media at the expense of the State Target Program Journalist. Mr. Mikoli Shershun to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the failure to stop the flatazot company to save jobs and avoid environmental catastrophe. MIKOLI JANKOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for support of the city council of Gorlovka Donetsk region. MIKOLI JANKOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to support the appeal of the group of the State Enterprise "Artemugil" of Gorlovka Donetsk Region. ZARUBINSKO'S Oleg to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on abuses in the publishing sector, which led to a sharp deficit in the necessary artistic and educational literature in schools and libraries in Ukraine. Oleg POLIČUKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney-General on the repetitive and additional facts of the corruption activities of Deputy Minister of Ukraine in the areas of emergency and protection against the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster Valerija Trelyakow, which is carried out under the silent consent of Minister Vladimir Chandra. Alexander KEMENYASA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the transfer to the joint property of the Tachiv territorial communities of the Zakarpat district of the preschool building in the village of Teresva. Alexander KEMENYAS to the Prime Minister on the need for recognition of the situation at the Solotvin stone-salt site and the Solotvinian Solar Company as an extraordinary, state-level, and the granting of technological disaster status to the population. Alexander the Third to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for appropriate measures to comply with the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on air links since 10 June 1993. GORDIENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine on the unjustified refusal of agricultural society with limited responsibility for the "Vskobijniki" of the Shisak region of Poltaw region to pay the added tax for the period from 1 April 2007 to 1 April 2008, for the sale of milk and meat to processed enterprises, a pre-planned artificial laundering of circulation costs that could lead to bankruptcy of the economy. GORDIENKA's secretariat to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to bring "Pro metrology and metrology" to Ukraine's Law "On Metrology and Metrology" paragraph 29 of Cabinet Regulation No. 560 of 12 July 2005 "On the Approval of the Procedure for the Formulation of Tariffs for Services, Maintenance of Houses and Buildings and Buildings, and the Standard Contract for the Provision of Services for the Maintenance of Houses and Buildings and Incentive Areas" on expenditure on periodic inspection, maintenance and repair of apartment equipment for water and thermal energy at the expense of enterprises and organizations providing services for energy, heat, gas and water supply, which will exclude the possibility of uncontrolled price increases for these services and self-government of officials in places. [[including dismantling, transportation and post-trust installation]] SERGEANT PAULENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unsatisfactory implementation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of 5 July 2005 on measures to support the socio-economic development of the city of Chernivci in connection with the marking of the 600th anniversary of its establishment. LITHUANIA’S Jury to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds from the State Budget through the Stabilisation Fund for the Reconstruction of the Crash School of the Krasnosilkow School of Public Education, I-II. Jury CARMAZINA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine, the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Prosecutor General of Ukraine for the verification of the abuse of office, the purposeless use of state funds, service negligence, other corruption by individual officials of the NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, which causes billions of dollars to be lost to the state and threatens the national security of Ukraine, the use of measures to remedy the shortcomings in the company's work, the provision of gas to Ukraine's population by its own production and the imposition of responsibility on the guilty. Groups of National Deputies (WHENKI, COMARA and others to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the Social Payments Legislative Commission. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the adequacy of the post of Chief of the Audit and Audit Office in the Odessa Region, in relation to its conduct, which violates the ethics of the civil servant. [[SULKOVSKI, TURMANOVA, LITVINOVA]] OXANI BILOZIR and Vasil PETOVKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures for the development and approval of state standards governing the construction and operation of water parks. ANDRYA SCHOOL to the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine on the cost of shipping a Ukrainian ship to participate in an anti - pirate operation in the Gulf of Aden. Valentina MATWEJEVA to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the grave violation of the constitutional rights of Svetlana Ostapchuk’s citizen for housing. Vassila GREECEA to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the facts of gross violations of Ukrainian legislation by the State firm Ukrelekon and the officials behind such violations. Vasila PETOVKI to the Ministry of Regional Development and Construction of Ukraine for the non-derogation of the level of social protection of Ukrainian citizens who live in the rural areas of mountain areas. Vasila PETOVKA to the Minister of Education and Science regarding the situation in the area of education of the Hungarian national minority in the Zakarpatsky region. Vladimir DENILENKA to the National Bank of Ukraine regarding the failure of the Suma branch to implement the Open Shareholders Association of the Business Bank of Vladimir of the Republic of Ukraine with regard to the return of the contributions of natural persons. Mr. Vladimir PILIPENK to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, for conducting a comprehensive test of the selective application of legislation by the Dnipropetrov Administrative Court. To the head of the Ukrainian Security Service to confirm the shooting by the authorities of the U.S.S.S.S.S.R. in 1951 of 33 students and the repression of 800 students at the University of Kharkiv for refusing to pass exams in Russian. YEUGENA GOOD TO the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the situation that arose with the Malinian Consumer Society. Edward PRUTNIKA to the Ministry of Transport and Communications of Ukraine regarding the collective appeal of citizens of the town of Bachmach for the deterioration of the conditions of rail transport in connection with the change in the timetable of train traffic No.6501 Ster’s Enchantment, which makes it difficult for the population of Bahmach, Borznian, Sosniew and Cersnik regions of the region of Chernigiv and the use of appropriate measures, to consider the appeal of the citizen of Mary Mishchenko on the need to resolve the need to schedule trains at the station of the Plisk of the Borznian region, to consider the referral of MPs of the Pekarov Rural Council of the Sosnic region for the interests of 700 persons living in the villages of Pekarów, Cherniutin, Kostir and Knigiv district regarding the provision of bus centres of the Colostovate district to the Coal. Irina BELOWS to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine on the delay in the investigation of the circumstances and causes of the death of a patient in the Lviv district hospital. Katerina VASCHUK to the Minister for Family, Youth and Sports in connection with removing artificial obstacles and delaying officials in documenting the honorary title of "Mother Hero" to the many-year-old mothers of the Volin region. Mr. Mikoli Sherschun to the executive responsibility of the Head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine to continue the lease agreement with the Society with a limited liability "Vikont" on a state building in the village of Miroljubka in the Ternopil region of Ternopil. OLEGO ZARUBINSKI to the National Bank of Ukraine on the absence of a consistent and open policy of the National Bank of Ukraine on the issue of the return of citizens on whom a temporary moratorium has been imposed. Alexander ŠEPELEVA to the minister of Ukraine for emergencies and protection of the population from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster in the management of industrial wastes stored in the Gorlov chemical plant. Helen LUCASH to the National Bank of Ukraine regarding the right to return the amount of bank contributions necessary for the urgent treatment of a citizen named Hennady Metzner. The Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General of Ukraine on the abuse of office and the acquisition of state funds by officials of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the State Enterprise "Information Centre" of the Ministry of Justice and Society with limited responsibility "Art Master" in providing services from the organization and ensuring access to automated electronic systems. Groups of National Deputies to the Head of the High Council of Justice, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the gross violation of the Court of Justice of the Comsomol district court of Herson Natalia Istanbul of the Civil Procedural Code of Ukraine during the use of the appeal measures, which resulted in interference with the economic activities of the state-owned company Iliwiska Sea Trade Port and the substantial limitation of the legitimate powers of the Ministry of Transport and Liaison of Ukraine. [[THE tease, the capillary, and others. Total 11 deputies]] Groups of National Deputies (KARPUCA, KORJA and others to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine on non-satisfaction with the parliamentary request to verify the purpose of the use of funds provided for in the Ukrainian State Budget 2007 for the purchase of a positron-emission tomographer and gamma-lower equipment, recheck and establish reasons for delaying the introduction of medical equipment. Panels of National Deputies to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Head of the High Council of Justice, the Head of the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine on efforts by Yuri Belčik to avoid criminal responsibility for the cruel and unnatural way of raping a five-year-old daughter and threatening to murder both her address and the mother's address and on the involvement of officials of the Equality City Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Rhineland area, the Prosecutor's Office of the City of Raven and the Prosecutor's Office of the Plain District, the judges of the Court of Appeal and the Equal City Court of Justice in the deliberate actions relating to the closure of criminal investigation, the destruction of evidence in criminal proceedings and the prosecution of cases. [[LUKE, PORTNOVA, ILLIASHOV AND OTHERS]] Groups of National Deputies to the Head of the Supreme Audit and Audit Office of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine for Under-Sufficient Work and Financial Abuses at the Chief Land Administration in the Žitomir Region. [[CERPIAN, LUCIAN, AND OTHERS Total 10 deputies]] Mr. Andria PAWLOWSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the cessation of the gross violation of the labour rights of employees of the Civil Service Administration of the Ukrainian Security Service in Kiev and Kiev. VALERIA BONDIKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for a formal response. Victor SINCHENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the rights of investors in the construction of the Triple Gate II housing complex in the city of Opuhov Kyiv district. YEUGENA GOOD TO THE U.S. Attorney General of Ukraine about the purposeless use of funds by the Blackbelservice State Enterprise. Igora KALETNIKA lo Procurator-General of Ukraine regarding the cessation of illegal activity by the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, which has led to the delay in criminal investigations into the smuggling of means of transport and the avoidance of criminal liability by persons guilty of crimes. Irina FRENCH to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of law enforcement authorities in the investigation of Criminal Case No.56-2117, a criminal offence committed by the Society’s officials with limited liability for the production and commercial firm AMC Ltd. Irina HERASTENKO to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations by the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea of the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. MIKOLI JIGA to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the appeal by Paul Ponomarov’s mortgage company to an organized criminal group in Kiev, led by a citizen named Quickybogotov. MIKOLI KRAVČENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of the prosecutor of the Amurosian district of the Donetsk district of Vladimir Marach after the restoration of order and legality. MICHAYLA VOLINZA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on dissatisfaction with the reply to the MP's request for the activities of the administration of the Malisheva State Enterprise and on purpose of bringing this enterprise to bankruptcy. Roman ZABZALJUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for failure to provide an answer by the Prosecutor's Office of the Mikolayev Region to a parliamentary hearing regarding possible misconduct by officials of the prosecutor's office and the internal affairs of the Coral District of Mikolayeva. Ulyani MOSTIPAN to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the improper consideration of the parliamentary appeal for misconduct by the prosecutor’s authorities in criminal proceedings against farm managers. Jury KARMAZINA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the deliberate destruction of individual accounting documents from Criminal Case No. 124-1635, filed against the former head of UMS of Ukraine in the Lviv region of Oleg Sala for the theft of state funds on a particularly large scale, which led to the closure of the criminal case, the annulment of the decision to close the case, the decision to take Oleg Hall into custody and to bring him to criminal responsibility. Jury KRUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the real state of affairs at the Odessa Film Studio and on the protection against the destruction of one of Ukraine’s most famous film studios. LITHUANIA’S Jury to the Attorney General of Ukraine on illegal land dispossessing and transfer of land to the collective property of the agricultural research company Agrofirma Losinovska, Nižin district of Chernigiv region. Vladimir JAVORISKI to the Chief State Sanitary Doctor of the Kirovograd District Sanitary Epidemiological Station for Illegal Deduction and Functioning in Dissuit with Sanitary Epidemiological Standards of the Centre for Polyethylene Film Production, addressed: Kirovograd Region, Svetlovdsk City, Chernisevski Street, 8. Elin Šishkino to the Head of the Right District in Kiev of the State Administration for Dissatisfaction with the reply to a parliamentary appeal regarding the establishment of the Right District in Kiev by the State Administration of an illegally high rent for the use of children's premises by the Children's Association "Arhat Sports Club". SERGEANT to the Head of the Kyiv City State Administration for failure to comply with Presidential Decree No. 1073/2008 of 24 November 2008. GREENEVECH’S Sergei to the Head of the State Committee on Water Management concerning the operation of works on the river side of the Danube Black Sea inland waterway. Thus, honourable colleagues, all parliamentary inquiries have been made. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we passed a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On Organizing and Performing the Final Part of the 2012 European Football Championship in Ukraine" and sent it to third reading, giving time for the drafting of this law in the part where the land is taken away for the construction of objects and buildings needed for the preparation and holding of the Euro-2012 Championship. [[new editor]] The committee is ready to report that we will make an operational decision, and then we will discuss the issues further. Let's take a quick look, and then there's a series of proposals, we'll discuss them, and we'll make a decision. No objections? Let us, then, be sure that Paul Ivanovich Kostenko, head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism, address this issue and go on to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u2	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, the committee implemented the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and worked out the draft bill overnight and, in our opinion, all the questions raised yesterday have been completely removed in the new edition. Thus, an analysis of the decision taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the regulation of land secession testifies. First of all, yesterday's decision does not solve the main issue, namely: quickly, in strict terms, remove all problems with the start of the construction of important subjects of the championship, since only the only mechanism of the owner's consent has been proposed. Second, the availability of a mandatory agreement will result in an unjustified increase in the costs of government and local budgets. Experts have found that the legalization of corruption by officials is clearly being followed. In this regard, we propose that land operations be conducted only on the basis of a list approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, a monetary assessment of the land is carried out according to applicable legislation. Our amendment provides for a judicial order for an accusation of the question of the price of the ransom or alienation. Thus, our proposals are fully in line with articles 41 of the Constitution of Ukraine regarding the forced alienation of private property for reasons of social necessity. In other words, we ask our colleagues to support this because it's about using a constitutional mechanism to solve this important issue. The rest of the proposals relate to agreeing on the bill voted yesterday. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, are there any warnings? Adam Martinyuk, please. If you do, we will vote yes or no, whether we support or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u4	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, Paul Ivanovich, remind us, please, what an amendment we have discussed with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u5	This is about the first amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u6	This is page 86, page nine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u7	Page nine. Honorable colleagues, page 9, right, first sentence. The “list of objects of law” is clear here. “The ransom of such objects shall be effected by decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine or of the relevant local council.” If we write: “The Cabinet of Ministers or the relevant local council”, no one will buy it, because the local council will say: “Let the Cabinet of Ministers buy it, and the Cabinet of Ministers will say: “Let the local council buy it. So I'm going to do it this way, or I'm going to write here that the Cabinet of Ministers is buying land from state and municipal property, and the local authorities are buying land from private property. Then it'll be clear. Because I'm going to say it again if we write it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u8	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u9	Let us then, there is such a proposal, Adam Ivanovich, as follows: “A list of private property rights objects that are subject to a ransom on the grounds of social need for the construction and maintenance of sports facilities, stadiums, airports, their constituents and other transport infrastructures is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The purchase of such objects is made for a decision in accordance with the Cabinet of Ministers or with the relevant local authority.” That is, add the word “appropriate”. Then the questions are all off.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, once again, I say, “correspondingly, the Cabinet of Ministers” according to what?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u11	Relevant to the lands of state property. And there, if it's utility property, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u12	Volodymyr Mihajlovich, landowners of the Cabinet of Ministers, practically zero, state land in the Cabinet of Ministers, airports, not to mention. By the cities that are in the Cabinet of Ministers ownership? There's no government property. So to write that state and municipal property should be purchased by the Cabinet of Ministers, where private property should be purchased by the local council. Because logically, it would seem, the local council is communal property, but the local council has no such funds, and there is virtually no state land. That's why the government and the municipal -- the Kabmin, the private -- the local council. Then they'll be ransoming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u13	Please, in the government, what offer might there be?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u14	In this case, the point is that when the land is bought around the Olympic NSC, for example, it will be the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers, because it is in state ownership. That's what the ransom is about, the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers. If it is in Lviv, where the stadium is built at the expense of the local budget. Then it will be redeemed by the decision of the local authorities. Here's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u15	Please, Alexander Lavrinovich. If the Cabinet of Ministers, they're being formulated like this, let's finally agree, because we're going to rule here, and then we're not going to make any decisions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u16	We're being set up, and we're supporting.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u17	That's their problem, let them solve it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to support the proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers, which has been made by the chairman of the committee, since the language actually says that there may be government objects on the ground of municipal property, on the one hand. On the other hand, if there's no way to buy the right area, we have the Law on Exclusion for Social Needs, the necessary assessments to be made. So inserting the word “appropriate” here removes all the problems that can arise when these projects are implemented.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u19	Well, that'll be the details, but let them determine, Adam. I'll put it to the vote now, we'll just define. Guys, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u20	Paribay Andrey, MP “For Ukraine! ” Dear Chairman, distinguished MPs! I'd like to suggest you take a look at page 15. [[right page]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u21	I'm asking you, we'll be there by 15, then we'll talk. We are now on page 9. Let's decide here.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u22	Well, we're actually all the warnings that we have, we're saying.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u23	Well, I want to tell you, we're discussing an amendment right now, so we need to make a decision. Let's go to page 15, and you'll take the offer. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I will put to the vote a proposal made by a committee of ministers and supported by the government, with one clarification: it is implemented by the appropriate decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine or by the relevant local council. I would like to vote on the support for this amendment. Otherwise, we will vote for another amendment. [[10:37:53]] For 359 Correction accepted. Let's move on. Now we go to page 15? National MP Parbuy, please, what's your correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u24	Once again, Parubi Andrey, “For Ukraine! ” So on page 15, paragraph 130 reads as follows: “The registration of a legal person, including an information agency, a printed media outlet, whose names are fully represented by trade marks, symbols, designations and other intellectual property objects of UEFA.” [[partial]] I was approached by journalists who thought that this paragraph limits the rights and freedoms of our journalists and introduces a subjective assessment that would lead to subjectivity in determining who could explain the activities of the UEFA. Considering that tomorrow is Journalist Day, I propose that this item be thrown out because I think we should not limit, but, rather, maximize the involvement of journalists and the media in the UEFA broadcast in Ukraine. Together, I want to welcome our journalists to Journalist Day, which will be in our country tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u25	Ladies and gentlemen. Dear colleague! Dear colleagues! I think even on the eve of Journalists' Day we can't go back to voting on this amendment because yesterday this decision was voted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and we made only two revisions to the third reading concerning land relations, so unfortunately, too late for that proposal. Dear colleagues, about the last one. The second amendment. Any warning? It conforms to the amendment that was the first we voted on. You don't? So, my dear colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the third reading and generally as the bill of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the organisation and holding of the final part of the 2012 European Football Championship in Ukraine. [[new editor]] [[10:40:21]] For 386 The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, on your behalf, welcome to Journalist Day, which tomorrow will be honored by the entire country, by journalists who are here, who are not here, who are working all the time. Let's thank them for the work that they're not giving us any peace. [[Applause]] And let us now express our gratitude and respect for them, for during political campaigns we will simply love them. Dear colleagues, on your behalf today I will hand the journalists the corresponding marks of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and that will be, everything will be, yes. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that there will be no doubt that I will have meetings with journalists, then with the National Security Council. So the meeting will be held by First Vice-Speaker Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please sign up for five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u26	Karpuk Vladimir Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u27	Vladimir Karpuk, deputy group “For Ukraine”. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, I would like to draw attention to the order of the day for today. For inclusion in the agenda there are two decrees 4453 and 4318 on the observance of the Jubilee of the cities of Tsurupinsk and the Gola Dostah of the Hersonian region. At the same time, in the agenda, which was formed yesterday, there was a bill by Deputy Vyezovsky, number 4213, to amend the Supreme Council Order on the Celebration of Jubilee Dates in 2009, which included the draft Ordinance on 500 years from the date of the award of the Magdeburg Law to the city of Belize. So I'm surprised when one thing comes into play, the other thing doesn't go into the agenda. The same applies to the authorship of Deputy Vladimir Yavorowski as regards the situation in Kiev-Pecher Lavre. And I want to take that into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u28	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u29	That these decrees will include 4,213 members of the Vyezovsky and the decision concerning the situation in Kiev-Pecher Lavre also include for consideration today, to this day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u30	Filipenko Volodymyr Pilipovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u31	Please pass the word to Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u32	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! The faction proposes today to consider the question: first is the 4600 decree that proposes to Parliament the next plenary week to be held in the sessionary plenary. We've got about 800 bills pending the session, a good third of them affecting the socio-economic situation in the country. Next. Alexander Alexandrovich Omelchenka, a professional committee, urges us today to consider the personnel issues that he has long decided and has been proposing to Parliament for a third week. The faction will support the consideration of human resources. Alexander Alexander Omelchenka's committee, he'll report what. The faction will support it. And the third. Lately, there have been many applications, proposals for referendums in the country. It's time to settle this question. The faction suggests that we look at it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u33	Please finish, Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u34	The faction suggests that today, in plenary mode, the vote should be determined with regard to the harmonization of the country's holding of all-U.S. referendums. Three questions please be put to the vote regarding support in the Hall today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u35	Vazievsky Vladimir Mikhajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u36	Vladimir Vyezivski, “For Ukraine” MP. Considering that the question I was about to raise, Vladimir Karpuk has already raised, I am handing over my word to Andrew Parbía.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u37	Microphone Paris, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u38	Paribay Andrey, “For Ukraine! ” Honourable MPs, honourable citizens, in fact, what has just been proposed by the head of the "Julia Timoshenko Block" by John Kirilenko, shows the alarming trends that are taking place today in the session hall. In particular, his proposal to make next week a plenary is concerned that somehow this week all the issues of overcoming the economic crisis, which were annotated by the Cabinet of Ministers, were not raised. And somehow it'll take another plenary week. So I'll tell you what it's for. It is needed for certain negotiations between the BUIT and the Coalition Party to date. And since they have not been able to do so until today, it takes time for them to announce the coalition on Tuesday. Only this goal, not the solution to economic problems, is their primary objective.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u39	People's Deuteur Blackwill, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u40	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, dear friends! I ask you to put it into the agenda today and consider the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision 4272 to mark the 20th anniversary of the creation of the People's Movement of Ukraine. I would like to be asked and voted one of the first questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u41	National MP Pisarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u42	Thank you. Dear colleagues, first of all, wanted to ask that the first question, as soon as we had finished the discussion, was the decision to release the defence minister without discussion, Defence Minister Yuri Yehanurov. There are already conclusions from two committees. The hall is ready for the vote. I ask you to put this as a staff issue that doesn't need a separate vote. The other one. You know, when I hear someone talking about not wanting to work in session mode, it seems to me that whoever doesn't want to work can collect things and go on summer vacation. And I think that Parliament should work. If necessary, continue the work of the session for a longer period, since we owe the citizens enough. And the last. Dear colleagues, I call upon everyone after the President's decision yesterday to veto the Act banning gambling on Tuesday with the first question of giving a hard answer to the President and over 400 votes against his veto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u43	Thank you. Is the exchange complete, or is the faction that did not share the urge to make proposals? None. Thus, proposals have been made for today's schedule of meetings: the proposal of the People's Deputy Karpuka to include in the agenda of the session the consideration of draft regulation No. 4213. Draft regulation 4213, once again, the microphone of the People's Deputy Karpuka, what did the draft order decide there?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u44	I ask you to pass the word to Prisoner, he is the author of this decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u45	Please, the national deputy of prison.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u46	Vladimir Vyzaniński, “For Ukraine” MP. Yesterday, two decrees were included in the agenda, the initiators of which was me, number 4213, and the initiator of which was Vladimir Yavorowski 4378. Instead, today in the daytime we see the points that were made yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u47	Table of contents, what's the meaning of the decree?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u48	And today we see in order of the day those items that were not even placed in the agenda yesterday, but just put into the agenda are 4453 and 4318. They are now in the order of the day, and those who were in yesterday’s order of the day are disfellowshipped. That's why I'm proposing some, and some of the other aspects of the agenda, considering that they're not politically-involved decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u49	Please tell me, what do the decrees ask the national MPs?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u50	Decree 4378 is about securing the Kiev-Pecher Lavre complex and further development.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u51	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u52	This is the number of Decree 4378 and the second is the draft decree on amendments and additions to the Supreme Council decision on the observance of memorial dates and Jubilee in 2009. [[4213]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u53	Thank you. I am voting on the proposal of the national deputies Karpuk and Jazyniski to include in today’s schedule draft regulations 4213 and 4378. Can we go together, or do you insist separately? Take off the vote, please. Please define each project separately. I am voting on the proposal to include a draft decision on Friday. [[Number 4213]] Please be sure. [[10:51:09]] For-44 The decision is not taken. I would like to place a motion for inclusion in the agenda for today's draft ruling by the Yavorowski People's Deputy on the Kiev-Pecher Historical and Cultural Reserve, please identify yourself. [[No. 4378]] [[10:51:42]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The proposal of National Deputy Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovovich to consider today changes to the calendar of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The draft decreed 4,600. Please be sure to be included in the agenda for today's meeting. [[10:52:26]] For 282 Decision taken. Next offer. The factions, please. Region Party – 128, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 152, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 2, Communists – 0, “Litvina Block” – 0. Next offer. Today, consider the draft law on the All-Ukrainian referendum, which was included in the agenda yesterday, and which was transposed by consideration. [[1374]] Please be determined, please, to be included today. [[10:53:16]] For 321 Decision taken. Today the question is being considered. The next proposal was today to consider the submission of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government in connection with the liberation of Defence Minister Yehanurov Yuri Ivanovich. Please identify yourself as a member of the agenda for today’s session. [[10:53:51]] For 333 Decision taken. The proposal also made by National Deputy Crnvolenka Alexandre Vilenović is today to consider a draft decree on the 20th anniversary of the People's Movement of Ukraine. [[Number 4272]] Please identify yourself as an item on the agenda for today. [[10:54:26]] For 214 Questions on the schedule for today are not included. The factions, please. Region Party 2, Timoshenko Yulia Block 152, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense 60, Communist 0, Lithuanian Block 0. The proposals that came from the national deputies of Ukraine were all submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thus, in accordance with our decisions, I invite you to the rostrum of People's Deputy Steschenka to consider the draft Order amending the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On the calendar of the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Sixth Call." Please, Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u54	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! I am pleased to remind you that on Tuesday, at the opening of the plenary, virtually all factions expressed themselves for the fact that the parliamentarians had borrowed from the draft bills and, as a result, I had a draft decree for the holding of the June 9-12 plenary meetings. In the motivational part of the draft judgement and the submission of arguments are presented. Individual national deputies, including First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, Alexander Volodymyrovich Lavrinovich, make the only observation I support, it is related to the fact that on these weekends a public holiday is held, and then it is appropriate to resolve the organizational issues of the work of the Supreme Council next week 9 on Tuesday to start our work with the evening plenary. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u55	Please ask Alexander Mikolaiovich. Any questions? You don't? There's a question, please, National Deputy Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u56	Vladimir Karpuk is a member of the “For Ukraine” group. Mr. Stishenko, really, what are the motives for moving the plenary? Because at least we know that if there were no political arrangements, all the decisions that were made to continue the plenary or to postpone the plenary sessions did not have support in the hall. There is support here, and we see exactly what factions have supported the inclusion in the order of the day. We understand and let people understand that it's not economic issues, it's not the adoption of anti-crisis laws, it's the political arrangements and the implementation of these political arrangements that make for the next session. You're in a hurry, really, there's not much time left, you have to make a staff appointment, you have to make changes to the Constitution, and there are no anti-crisis laws. Name at least a few laws that. Your order from the anti-crisis for next week is due on Tuesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u57	Dear colleague, I can only confirm one thing that we are really in a hurry: we are in a hurry to save the country, we are in a hurry to save the economy, we are in a hurry to fulfil the great responsibility that our voters have put on us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u58	Thank you. Have a seat, please. [[Applause]] Is there a need to discuss? Do you have any more questions? Please ask me a question, National Deputy Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u59	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" Block. Dear reporter, I would like you not to hide, perhaps from us, colleagues, and more from the Ukrainian people and say frankly, and frankly, this week you need to announce a broad coalition on Tuesday, or perhaps on Wednesday, and vote for changes to the Constitution. And that you have been commissioned to make such a draft decision and please either correct or confirm what the entire Ukrainian people are saying and which warns you against such an irreparable mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u60	Dear Anatoly Sergiyovich, as you well understand, I am not the first calibre, but not the last. I have never worked in Komsomol, so I always speak from the rostrum honestly, openly, and in fact.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u61	Any more questions? No questions asked. Alexander Mikolaiovich, please sit down. Is there a need to discuss? please sign in. National deputy of Vyezovsky, please. People's Deputies, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u62	Papuy Andrey, “For Ukraine” MP. Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! We are now clearly aware that the implementation of the plan for the establishment of a broad coalition between the Yulia Timoshenko Block and the Party of Regions and the beginning of the review of the Ukrainian Constitution begins. It begins with such an innocent question as moving the plenary week to the next week’s work. But everyone should know and speak honestly from this rostrum about changes to the Constitution. I want to urge you all to stop these intrigues that are happening in and out of the hall today. Stop discussing projects that are not supported by people who are not allowed to vote for you. I want to remind all the deputies that we are here as representatives of our people, of our constituents. We're not here, we're not standing up for each other. Go to the county that week. Talk to the people. Do not consult with your party leaders, but consult with your people who have chosen you. I am addressing the Western Ukrainian deputies. It'll be better if you spend this week with the voters. If you consult with them and discuss how you should and should act in this room. And I urge everyone, to stop these intrigues, not to vote in favour of this decree. Use the week to consult, not party leaders, but voters. And then maybe in a week you'll come into this room with a brighter mind and brighter decisions, and you'll stop this adventure that's being prepared right now in the session room. The parliamentary group “For Ukraine” proposes not to vote in favour of the decision, but to spend this week with its voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u63	Upper Sergei Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u64	Honorable Presidium, Honourable Deputies, Honourable Voters! Well, first of all, we have next week's calendar -- committee work. And that's why I now understand how the "For Ukraine" group works in the weeks when we have to work on the committee. They travel and communicate in mysterious ways with whom and where. That's the first one. The other one. The rapporteur said that we have a lot of, a lot of bills that have already been passed by the committees and that we need to deal with them exclusively in plenary mode, exclusively in the room to vote on all those bills that have accumulated in order to deal with this economic and financial crisis. And I don't associate this with any rumors, with some material that's on the Internet and stuff like that. On the other hand, there is nothing wrong with the fact that all factions will be united in this room and a large, united coalition will be formed that will all its aims to overcome this crisis. So I'm asking you to support this, to work is not a shame, the more you work in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u65	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u66	Dear friends, indeed, we owe the electorate a great debt in that, as long as the state authority first leaves a negative chauffeur to the President, as long as there is a chauffeur of divisions, divisions, divisions and divisions, the power to produce these processes not only within the power of the country itself but also within the country. We are therefore in a hurry, rightly said, in a hurry to address the strategic national challenges of what people want, what society wants, what the people want, what the people want, what the people want, what the country wants, how to unite, how to achieve unity in power, how to end this disgrace when the country is speaking in an international arena and singing in a divisive voice when the world does not hear a single State voice from Ukraine. We owe it to the people that we do not have decisive steps to overcome the crisis because there is no unity of power. That is why, I think, that week, it will be very productive in terms of meeting the strategic challenges that society and people expect of us. I ask that the draft regulation be put to the vote and that it be productive for Parliament to work in sessional mode that week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u67	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. All those who expressed their wish took part in the discussion. During the discussion, a proposal was made to clarify the decision that the Conciliation Council and the evening plenary meeting were held on June 9. Is there no objection to making this proposal immediately to the text? None. I put to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine “On the calendar plan for the holding of the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call”, with a clarification set out by the Chief Rapporteur. [[No. 4600]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:06:26]] For 322 Decision taken. The next plenary week will begin on June 9, with an evening plenary session. The factions, please. The faction of the Party of the Regions – 169, “Clock of the Yulia Timoshenko” – 147, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 6, Communist faction – 0, “Clock of Lithuania” – 0. Let us now consider the questions of second reading. A draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the introduction of an automated documentary system in administrative courts is being announced. A member of the Justice Committee, Portnov Andri Volodymyrovich, reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u68	Thank you. Honourable Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished Ukrainian national MPs, the Committee on Justice recommended a second reading and, as a whole, adopt a bill that will introduce an automated documentary system in administrative courts. We discussed this bill in the session room and more than a constitutional majority of Parliament voted and supported the bill. It is suggested that it be supported in the form given to the national deputies. If there is no objection to the amendment, almost absolute majority of the amendments are included, so please, Alexander Volodymyrovich, as amended. If there's any objection.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, consider the amendments made to the draft law. Amendment No. 1 of National MP Carmazin's committee proposes to take into account. Is there a denial? None. Is there a denial of amendment number two? None. Amendment number three? There's no objection. Amendment number 4. The committee suggests that we take it into account. Is there a denial? There's no objection. Amendment No. 5 of the People's Deputy Novikovy. Is there a miscalculation? Amendment number six. The committee suggests that we take it into account. Is there a denial? None. Amendment No. 7 of the Karmazin National MP suggests that the committee reject. Yuri Anatolyovich agrees with the committee? The Microphone of the People's Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u70	Yes, I agree, the committee practically counted everything there, except for the last sentence. So I agree, and in general, a good bill, and around here the amendments, where possible, have been counted, i.e. consensus found. I proposed another bill for all the courts, not just the administrative courts. We need to get to the point where things are distributed automatically, and corruption has been overcome. This law is specifically designed to prevent corruption. So I will no longer take the floor for this bill, I agree with all the decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u71	With regard to the committee's recommendations regarding amendment number eight of the Shustik People's Deputies, is there a denial? None. As for amendment number nine, is there a denial of consideration? None. Amendment number 10 of the Karmazin People's Deputy. Is there a miscalculation? None. 11th Amendment. Is there a denial? The committee recommends that we consider it. None. 12th Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? None. 13th Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? None. 14th Amendment. Is there a denial? There's no objection. 15th Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? None.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u72	Alexander Volodymyrovich, it says here that is counted, and in all these bills there is a mistake. And the text of the bill says, from January 1st, 2010. That's the committee's decision. And here's the amendment of the People's Deputy Pisarenko, it's going last. And so the committee voted.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u73	Please, National Deputy Shustik. Do you agree with the committee's proposal? Thank you. 16th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Novikovy. Is there a miscalculation? None. 17th Amendment of People's Deputies Pisarenko. Is there a miscalculation? Please, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u74	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, there's no need in the 17th Amendment if we count the 16th Amendment, because the 16th Amendment says: “This law takes effect from the first.” Oh, since June 1st. It's counted, isn't it? Since June 1, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u75	No, it's partly accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u76	No, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u77	There in the part “State and judicial administrations”, “to provide the courts with material and technical resources”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u78	Then you have to say what's partially counted, because it could be that from June 1, 10th, and here from January 1, 10th. Well, then, under the transcript, tell me when it's in.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u79	Under the stenogram. Second and third paragraphs.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u80	And what's left of Novak?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u81	The second and third parts of the amendment remain from Novikový, and the People’s Deputy Pisarenko remains in force, taking effect as of January 1, 2010.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u82	So we've considered all the amendments to this bill. The Ukrainian National Deputies agreed with all the committee's proposals, so I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and, in general, as a bill of amendment to some Ukrainian legislative acts on the introduction of an automated documentary system in administrative courts. [[No. 4324]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:12:44]] For 312 The law's been passed. The next draft in the second reading is being considered on the U.S. referendum. [[Registration number 1374]] Who will answer from the committee? Please, Deputy First Deputy Chief of the Committee, Olga Borisovna Bodnar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, on the first reading of this bill was adopted on September 19, 2008. During this time, virtually no national MPs have shown a desire to participate in its work, except for the five amendments made by the national MP Portnova and the 18 amendments made by the Ministry of Justice, which unfortunately are not the subject of the legislative initiative, and have not passed it on according to legislation. There's nothing to this bill. Today, I can tell you that the committee for the second reading is not prepared or considered in the second reading by the committee. This was reported by a letter from the chairman of the Committee, Alexander Alexander Omelchenka. But there's a regulatory rule that allows the hall to determine the proportion of this bill, which is eight months on the profile committee. Please identify the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u84	Olga Borisovna, please hold for a second. Any questions for Olga Borisovna? None. Please have a seat. Dear colleagues, since we have been approved in the first reading of the draft law and have not made any proposals for eight months, I am voting on the proposal for approval in the second reading and in the whole of the draft law on the All-U.S. referendum number 1374. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:15:04]] For 296 Decision taken. The law's been passed. Dear colleagues, we have invited Defence Minister Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov. We'll wait until he gets here. And now we're going to continue our work on that schedule that was previously approved. Is there no objection? The report of the Interim Investigation Commission on the investigation of the violation of the Ukrainian Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, the adoption of illegal decisions by officials of the Kiev City Council and its implementing body is being published. Please Kulikov Kirilo Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u85	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, respected kyans, respected citizens of Ukraine! I'm addressing you and asking all the deputies, if there's a chance, to listen very carefully to me, because I won't take too long. But I'm going to draw your attention to a very important question, what is happening today in the capital of Ukraine, in the capital of history, cultural, spiritual, in the city of Kiev. I ask the National Deputies if there is a chance to return to the session room and listen to the report of the Interim Investigation Commission, which has worked very fruitfully for three months to resolve this issue. Honorable colleagues, the people of Ukraine, the reverent kyans! I want to say that today our city of Kiev is on the verge of a global technological catastrophe. Today, millions of people in the capital, as well as tens of millions of Ukrainian citizens, are in danger. All those living in the Dnieper Valley are in danger. As for the work of the commission, the commission was created by Supreme Council Decision No. 1012 of February 19, 2009. It's working. This is the first commission to operate under the new Law on Temporary Investigations Commissions, which has significantly expanded the supervisory functions of the Supreme Council. The commission worked for three months. During this time, the commission was held at the 31st meeting on various issues. 500 representatives of the public, representatives of the administration, ministries, and law enforcement officers were heard by the commission. Representatives of law enforcement agencies, prosecutors, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and others regularly took part in the commission. I want to say that 10 of the 11 members of the commission voted in favour of the report that I have the honour to introduce to you right now, with one abstention. So I'm pointing out to you that virtually all the people who worked, the MPs who worked on this committee, they support the commission's report and they support the conclusion that today what's going on in Kiev needs to be changed. What there is and what I want to say. That what the commission has done is based only on documents, expert acts, expert conclusions, there is no personalized approach to the position that is taking place in Kiev. I repeat that Kiev is in a critical state of technological security. The biggest threats to Kiev are the Coastal Canal Collector, the Bortničev Aeration Station, the city's unwillingness to pass the flood, the construction of a left-hand dam, the construction of a bridge crossing through the Kyiv watershed, the inland watersheds of solid domestic waste in the village of Podgorci and Pyrog, the construction of the left-hand flood of Dniper, the inviolability of existing watersheds. I just want to give you two examples. The Coastal Collector is in critical condition today. And if it stops, it will mean stopping the water supply of 35 million Ukrainian citizens. Not only those who live in Kiev but those who live in the plains of Dniper. And what I want to say is, when many of you go to Borispol Airport and feel this taste of the country, it's the Bortnitz station of the aeration, which is a million dollars each year. But we need to decide whether to transfer it or create an investment project where, at the expense of the state, we can change the situation for investors. I want to say that Kiev has no floods for 40 years, but that will happen, and Kiev is not quite ready to fight this phenomenon. The Dniprov water supply station was put into operation in 39 years, do you think with the resources of the water supply station? The right-wing station in the '60s, what about the station's resource? I want to say that there are 1,169 dangerous objects in Kiev, more than a thousand technological catastrophes last year that killed more than 400 people, and this is silent. Everyone knows about the special combination “Radon”, everyone knows about the special combination “Radical”, where mercury falls into the groundwater and everyone knows and is silent about it. I stress this situation, primarily due to the improper execution by the KMDA officials, primarily the Kiev City Head, who is the head of the civilian defense headquarters of Kiev, his duties. And if anything should happen in Kiev, there is a person today who is personally responsible for the state of technology in Kiev, this person is Mayor Kyiv Leonid Chernewicki. The second question is about the health system in Kiev. In the past three years, the model security system was completely broken. The organization of the provision of health care to the population, the enforcement of sanitary and epidemiological legislation in the city, is critical. Medical supplies are not available, the capital is defined, were parliamentary hearings, veterans ’ affairs, the worst city that treats veterans. Human policy in the field. Over two thousand now retired doctors, ineffective dissipation has led to a significant increase in the physical weight of the first and second groups of people with disabilities. Population analysis is not available. Budget funding in 2008 was planned for 2 billion dollars, but only 1 billion was used, another billion went somewhere, and no one knows where. Today, it has become a tradition of shutting down treatment facilities from water supply. The wages of workers are the lowest in the social sphere, accounting for about 1 thousand 400 dollars. Doctors do not receive an allowance for harmful work. General is the practice of paying medical attention to citizens, and this is only in Kiev. All health - care facilities are constructed, the Blood Center, now showing images, a project called the Positive Emission Technology Center, which used 238 million dollars of government subsidies from the state budget and about 200 million more from the city of Kiev. To get this center, they're planning another 200 million, or 700. Look, this object costs 700 million dollars, I want to say that the supply tender was cancelled by a personal deputy, a professional deputy of the city’s city head, Kilczytsky. I want to say that the supply of high-tech medical equipment for oncological detection was given to a construction company whose director told me at the hearings of the commission that I was given a firm that would supply this equipment. I want to say that this is the kind of project that was created in Feofania, but it's 15 isotopes, and these are two. And this project in Fefania costs about 100 million dollars, and this 700 and it's not built. The term of guarantee for this equipment will end in September. We'll never mount this equipment, ever. This toy costs the city of Kiev 700 million dollars. Another question is, I want you to show the footage on the infectious labs right now. Kiev is a leader, a European leader, and it's true, but with AIDS, tuberculosis, and hepatitis C, it's silent. Now we're going to show you the picture of the state of the hepatitis C lab, where we're doing student learning. This is the situation in the European capital. I want to say that because it's medical services in Kiev, we can't talk about any Euro-2012. What “pig flu” can we talk about today? Kiev is not ready to fight this phenomenon. I want to say that medicine in Kiev is a sphere that provides more customers with ritual services. And the ritual service sector is fully privatized by an active action team. The fact that we have been able, through the joint work of the Temporary Investigation Commission and the Prosecutor’s Office, to cancel the decision of the Kyiv Council to enter the cemetery; to raise the price of the cemetery; to create and remove all the morgues from the hospitals; and to establish a pathological center in Kiev; and to rent places in the morgues. I would like to ask you, honourable national deputies, whether you will vote in favour of people who made the crematorium cost 30 percent. Can you tell me what the crematorium's profitability is? Thank you. It's about medicine. It's about municipal property. Kyiv, the Kyiv, the Kyiv community, had completely lost its influence on municipal assets. And I understand why a lot of people in this room hesitate to vote or not? But simply because there are so many common interests. This will begin with KyivenergoHolding's decision, on which the prosecutor's office of Kiev, the Attorney General's Office, has issued many protests, this is the bank “Kristátík” which disappeared into Kiyivmiskbud. I want to say that here among us is our colleague, Hero of Ukraine, who rebuilt this enterprise, which has disappeared, the most profitable enterprise. I want to say, this is "Kee's Bread," this is "Kee's Water Channel", which sells only in a few months objects that create infrastructure that translates 40 million bracelets per month into structures that disappear and that before that are broken by the Henprocurator's Office. One last thing. I want to say that all these objects rent property that belongs to the Kyiv community and is not privatized. So Kyiv Energy Holding had to pay 150 million dollars each year for renting this property and so we solved the issue of payment of services and so on. But only five are paid for the lease. I want to talk about fully privatized Kiev television, which Mr. Sandey Adelejay was the face of, and I want to say that in six months, Mr. Sunday Adelaide had 57 hours on television in Kiev, but that paid 182 thousand dollars, that's about 5 dollars per minute. About the flag. To pay for utilities, Kiev made a radical decision to hand over all utility assets belonging to Kiev. And this is the Theatre of the Opera and the Ballet, this is the Theatre of the im. The forests of Ukraine, this is the premises of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, this is the premises of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I believe that only one mistake in this list is that there is no Supreme Council building, the Cabinet of Ministers and the Secretary of the President of Ukraine. That's terrible! It's a terrible thing to do! Who will appreciate the facilities of the Kyiv Opera House? Who will appreciate the premises of the Ministry? Infringement of legislation in the field of the HKG As a result of criminal neglect by the management of the KMDA, the state of housing is critical, the KMDA even lacks power and power schemes, the well - being program is not approved, the state-wide reform program. Five minutes, if possible?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u86	Please finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u87	Five minutes. I can't finish because.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u88	You know, we've approved the question and its Rules, and then we'll have to shorten the answers to the questions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u89	I'll just name it. Everyone knows that today the Kiev city head has practically three times been raised, but each one of the Chinese does not know what they pay for, and 26 tariffs do not cover it. But this is a personal decision for which. Protests by the prosecution. There's a war going on in Kiev. We know they're killing people for environmental reasons, they're killing people on the islands, we've been able to figure out that they built an airport on Truhan Island, the airport's not registered anywhere where the planes were flying. As far as I'm I don't know the kind of area where Kiev doesn't violate legislation. I just want to say a little bit about the footage that is working in Kiev today. Today in Kiev, there are 18 deputies in the city of Kiev, four of them first. Today, in Kiev, 34 principal administrations and 83 simple administrations, no one can count the number of departments. I want to say that the trend today in Kiev has a critical impact on all citizens of Kiev, Ukraine. We will never have any Euro-2012 in Kiev, we will never have a European capital in Kiev. I want to say that the situation is dangerous and I ask, no matter what political view we have, there is no politics here, we must become a team that will save this city. I urge the National Deputies to take a judgmental decision, make a very important decision, and, you know, are now very important holidays of the Pure Trinity. And I've talked to many priests, many canonic churches, and they've all asked us to support this position. I ask you to take a step, a courageous step, a man's step, let's save the capital city of Ukraine the hero city of Kiev. Thank you so much for your time.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u90	Please sign up for a question to the reporter. Sergey Vladislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u91	Yavorovsky Volodymyr Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u92	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear reporter, I've worked on this committee and I have to tell our voters that I've been on many commission investigators. Since this committee worked with me on a pedantic basis, I do not remember how to do so. I understand that in the absence of time, you said little about the humanitarian catastrophes in our capital. It's a building of a historical center with free heights, it's an ejection of creative communities, let's say, a community of designers tossing them out of the room, and by the way, a community of designers was transferred to a madhouse, where they were given a room. This is usually not to comply with our decision not to throw the publications out of the premises. Instead, Dnipro publishing, in fact, had already approached them, cars had come to throw them away and only the public, and what had been managed at the door to find out that it was the offices of Vladimir Yavorowski that had managed to save it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u93	Complete the question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u94	Please say a few words about the humanitarian disaster in Kiev and the cultural disaster.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u95	Thank you very much, Vladimir Alexanderovich. We've been working. The cultural catastrophe in Kiev destroys culture. In Kiev, the people who run Kiev today -- they won't be able to see Kiev. I just want to give you one example. What will take place today in this month's UNESCO Conference is dedicated to the main issue: the exclusion of many objects under UNESCO protection in Kiev is first of all Lavra. I know you're all spiritual people, you all believe in God, all the festivals show you on TV, but what excludes our Lavra, what excludes our Sofia and excludes our Andrian Church is going to be the defeat of all of us. What the face of today's cultural Kiev will be Sunday Adeladge. It's a call from a colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u96	Karpuk Vladimir Igorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u97	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Cyril Borisovich, in your report you mentioned the Center for Positron-Emission Tomography. [[PET technology]] The 2007 budget allocated 228 million dollars for this technology, without being able to determine without consulting experts, I think that the Kiev Administration has not prepared any material documentation for the construction of unprepared specialists. And what's happening is that the expensive equipment, think, is 228 million per machine, when in rural medicine a year was given 100 million from the SP. And these 228 million since 2007 have been in unsuited warehouses, as shown in the pictures. [[Do you understand what the output of this device was then?]] And even in all calculations, this year and next year, this center will not be introduced. The cost of this equipment is too expensive. And we're losing money.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u98	What's happening with the Center for Positive Emission Technology is a challenge, it's a challenge to law enforcement, it's a challenge to us, it's a challenge to those people. This is a challenge every time these children are referred to, the heart is covered with blood. But I want to say that these people have nothing sacred. The fact that the subsidy was listed from the state budget in a timely manner is that the construction company was supplying high-tech X-ray equipment, because this center was never built because the term guaranteed was already leaking in September, that it was impossible to install this equipment because it was three separate manufacturers, that this construction company should teach doctors to produce those isotopes, create a logistics scheme; that these costs were under the direction of the deputy head of the Kyiv City Public Administration listed by a Swiss company that had no experience in manufacturing this equipment and has a statutory fund of 50,000 francs -- that is, clean money laundering. And I want to say today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u99	Hare Ivan Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u100	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. I understand the commission’s appointment that the members of the commission should consider the activities of the Kiev authorities. And on the other hand, I think you should consider the activities and central authorities. Regarding environmental protection, we see severe abuses, we see just massive destruction of green plants, we see destruction of natural reserve sites, including the Beetle Islands. It has come to the point that the nature of Mr. Potter’s security guard has been killed. But every day. Someone is responsible for these crimes: the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs. So tell me, please, how you reflect these environmental violations in your report, and how you reflect in your report the very activities of central authorities that should not be allowed to break the law. Thus, we beat only on our tails, not on our own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u101	Mr. Hare, I am very grateful for your questions, but I would like to quote once again the name of the Temporary Investigation Commission: “Research of the situation of violations of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine and the adoption of unlawful decisions by officials of the Kiev City Administration.” That's the first answer. And the second answer. In addition, I personally and the members of the commission worked personally to protect nature and the environment. We stood back, to your knowledge, Stus Park, where we criminally cut 180 trees; we stand for green zones, and we do it not only in words, but we do it in practice. I do not know if Stus ’ name is needed in Donetsk, but in Kiev it is absolutely necessary and needs this square, where 800 trees are cut down. And I did it myself.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u102	Instead of the national deputy Shenceva Jaroschuk Vladimir Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u103	I have a question for the speaker. Unlike listening to good sleep, I studied the material of the report well. And I see that there were different invitees here, and there was the animal protection society SOS, and there was the president of the film club. Perhaps they were preparing the report. And I think if a couple of lawyers were to be invited by the board, there wouldn't be any slaps like the Kiev Bread Registerer -- it's a natural person, some bank lost. By the way, the nominal value of the shares of the godfather bank is in the Kyiv community, and it remains the same. Perhaps there would be no decision to conduct psychiatric experiments. But the main question I have is, who gave you the right to falsify the results of the commission's work, to conduct the hearings, and to file a record of the commission's decision? As an example, on the seventh of May, hearings were held at the beginning of which three deputies were present, at the end of two. And it appeared, as you say, a record of the commission's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u104	Mr. Jaroschuk, the fact that you have a specific position on Kiev is what you've always said. It was expressed at a joint meeting of the three committees that we held, the Committee on State Building, the Committee on Combating Organised Crime, you were only one deputy who supported an active Kiev team. But what I'm trying to say is, no one forged any protocols. This commission, and this may be said by your faction friends, can prove to you that everything was carried out at a high level according to the legislation in force. I ask you not to express an opinion that does not correspond to reality. All the protocols are signed by me, the Secretary of the Commission and the responsible members of the Commission. And I want to tell you, there's nothing to answer, there's a decision and a decision supported by all the members of the committee, and what you need to support Mr. Cherniewecki is probably why.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u105	Pavlovsky Andry Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u106	Mr. Kulikov, you have not raised such an important issue as the illegal distribution of expensive Kyiv land, illegal construction, and I would like to pass on the word to Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u107	Bondarenko Volodymir Dmitrovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u108	Dear Mr. Kirile, your commission has worked for quite some time, and I'm curious whether you've studied the arguments used by President Viktor Yushchenko of Ukraine to reward Leonidas Chernewsky with the Order of Jaroslav the Wise? He had just announced to him that he had been completely inactive in the Elita-Centre case, when thousands of people had suffered and Cherniewsky remained unattended. And they say his bank counted the money! And they say he was involved in this scheme! Whether or not we've been studying. Yaroslava the Wise One! And have you studied the circumstances that have led to the award of Olesia the Long Order “For Credits”, all because there are thousands of deserving people in Kiev. [[Step III]] Why did the President choose him and reward him with this high reward?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u109	You know, we've studied breaking the law. And this is the President's personal position. Maybe the President is sure the Chinese like Mr. Chernewicki. Perhaps Long was given an order for conscientious work in the city of Kiev. Maybe that's the president's position. But what I'm saying is that the Chinese asked the President to support them. Once in 2004, when the President needed it, the Chinese supported him. Today, what responsibility should there be? She should be on the president, too. Today, the President is personally responsible for the head of the KMDA of Mr. Crnewecki and for all the actions that he is doing. I just want to say one thing. In Kiev, there are natural referendums -- referendums on Mr. Chernewecki's mistrust -- which is why more than 90 percent of the Chinese vote, and that's the main thing, that's the opinion of the people who live in this city, and we're ignoring it. Today, we must be honest.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u110	Please have a seat. Let's sign up for a discussion. Please, Kirilo Borisovich, what else were you going to say? Turn on the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u111	I want to contact my colleagues at the Lithuanian faction. The position of getting out of the room and not voting is also a position. But this position should be seen by the Chinese. And I ask you very much, whether you come today or not, but this will be the answer to the Chinese. And I want to talk to my colleagues from the Party of Regions. Colleagues, you once, two weeks ago, gave the country a holiday, you became a team, not only the Dutch team, but you became a team of all Ukraine. Be not only a Donetsk party but also a Kiev party. Support the decisions and help the Chinese. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u112	Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the discussion. Kolesniki Dmitry Valeriyovich, please. Please, Vladimir Ivanovich Jaroschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u113	The honourable presiding, respected colleagues, all know that the basic principle of the work of the interim commissions of inquiry is the obligation to act only in a legitimate manner. This is the kind of organization that the TSC was legally referring to as the Supreme Council of Ukraine, forming it. We have just read a report on the so - called fruitful and professional work of the Temporary Investigation Commission. With regard to this report, the information published does not correspond to reality. For the most part, the report is the subjective opinion of the commission's head. On the other hand, the head in his work severely violated the current legislation, did not properly organize the work of the designated commission, did not ensure the systematic conduct of its meetings, as I pointed out in my parliamentary request to the Head of the Supreme Council, and did so on a single-person basis by making decisions on the work of the commission, which severely violated the requirements of articles 2 and 6 of the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Commissions. It is impressive that on April 8, 2009, the head of the TSC, without sufficient grounds and authority to decide on the interim commission of inquiry, singled out a decision and sent requests on behalf of the commission to legal persons for the provision of information, including a confidential one, which is protected by the current legislation of Ukraine. Moreover, these requests were not properly addressed by persons who did not have the authority to deliver such correspondence on behalf of a person on behalf of a commission, i.e. in a manner not provided for by the current legislation of Ukraine, without taking into account the characteristics of the activities of the specified agencies. The chairman of the commission did not stop there. Taking on its importance, knowingly exceeding its powers in particular, and the authorization of the Interim Investigation Commission in general, without sufficient grounds, covering up its inactivity as the head of the TSC, and acting in contravention of the current legislation, having the response of the legal persons in hand, once again made a single decision and asked the Prosecutor's Office of the City of Kiev, where it had unjustifiably indicated that the persons responsible for the crime envisaged in article 351 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine had been committed, and had made an illegal request to the Prosecutor's Office to bring these persons to criminal responsibility, and to commit another gross violation of existing legislation: to remove information without specifying it in any way or in time. Despite the fact that the actions of the TSK’s heads were unfounded and illegal, Kiev’s prosecutor’s office had no legitimate reason not to respond to the demands of the TSK’s head and began numerous tests of his conversions, causing much damage to the business reputation of both businesses and employees, whose shoulders were in the midst of the current crisis and thus burdened their employees with responsibility. In this case, it is surprising that the form of work of the Interim Investigation Commission, such as a meeting called “listening”, has resulted in decisions by the TSC for the absence of a quorum which, according to current legislation, should have been adopted by us at a legitimate meeting of the Interim Investigation Commission, and only in this case have they had legal power. Thus, only five legitimate meetings were held.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u114	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u115	the rest is a “new-how” called “listening”. According to the law, the Interim Investigation Commission is a collegiate temporary body made up of national deputies whose task is to exercise parliamentary control by conducting investigations, I stress, a collegiate, not a single one, whose purpose is to exercise parliamentary control. Under such circumstances, the one - person, wrongful, and prejudiced activity of the head of the commission may not lead to an objective truth, a factual basis for an objective report by the college body, a temporary commission of inquiry, a work done, and the purpose of the commission. In this regard, I believe that the so - called TSC report and the draft ruling should be rejected and the work of the TSC stopped. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u116	Sushenko Alexander Mikolaiovich. Yavrovsky Vladimir Alexandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, our constituents! First of all, I'd like to reassure those who are very concerned about creating coalitions there. You've heard the speech of a potential ally of ours, draw conclusions from that. I'm a member of this committee. I worked as hard as I could. I want to say it again. I led the commission throughout my political biography, being a member of many committees. So objectively, so meticulously, no commission has ever worked so professionally. We were conducting the hearing. A colleague denies that this was a hearing. What shape could it be? We've called the authorities, we've called representatives of public organizations. They met in a discussion, and we concluded from this. What could be better? This is, indeed, perhaps the first commission to work under new conditions, after the adoption of a law that was actually carried out in a very soft but investigative way. And what Kulikov told us today is that this is just a little tip of the material that the commission was investigating. I’m not saying that every honest cyanide and non - cyanide coming to this city today is well aware that Kiev is going down to the very bottom. Colossal congestion when you can't go to work. You know what happens to transportation. This is where Kulikov was unable to talk about what is happening to artists in the same city of Kiev. When the lease is completed, let's say for the great sculptor, the artist of his workshop, then the workshop is put on tender, and, of course, it's bought out by those who are richer, bought by oligarchs and so forth. I've already told you, and I'm going to say it again. In fact, the Ukrainian Designers' Association was thrown out of the premises and moved to a madhouse. They've been given some kind of shelter. I'm not saying that Kiev-Pecher Lavre, we're going to be looking at this bill, we're going to be looking at this bill yesterday, and I think we're going to be looking at next week, the Kiev-Pecher Lavre with the permission of the city authorities is being built by today's offices, and we're going to be thrown out like harmful cats from the UNESCO and Sofia lists, and the Andrian Church. This is all done by local authorities. How is Kiev being built today? In fact, the entire historical center of Kiev has been corrupted. Nobody does that at all. Because again, I'm saying, everything is absolutely obvious, Kiev is losing its image, just like the capital of the state, I'm not talking about such eloquent notions as the capital of Europe there and so on. I am not saying that the mayor of Kiev did not say a word in public in all his speeches. I'm not talking about how he's demonstrating how strong he is, refusing to undergo a psychiatric examination. Because of this, I still say, society, we must make a normal, determined decision today not in order for any political ambitions, we must save the city of Kiev, save our capital.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u118	Hare Ivan Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u119	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Dear National Deputies! As a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Environmental Affairs, I am most interested in the report in the chapter that reflects the activities of the Kiev authorities in the field of environmental protection. Each of you knows that the environmental situation in Kiev is horrendous, not only because cars are being destroyed, but because of the purposeful green plantings, the parks, and the building’s territory. As stadiums are destroyed, children’s playgrounds, other physical objects, and sports are destroyed. Not once have we heard these questions in the Supreme Council, but we have not seen the actions of the Kyiv authorities and the central authorities. This also applies to the stadium of the Kyiv National University of Technology and Design, where citizens have been fighting for its preservation for three years or four years. This also applies to the battle of citizens for the Botanical Garden of Gryczka, which includes the island of Zhukov, where they want to destroy today’s unique natural object. But the report, I think, should reflect not only the activities of representatives of the executive body of the Kyiv City Authority, but also the deputies. Because MPs decide to take away land because MPs decide to change the destination of a particular area, including recreational nature. And what's really going on in the report is that the activity of Kiev's deputy corps is not reflected, so this is a very weak report right over here. I have one minute left, I can't help but say what happened today at the Supreme Council the day before this bill was considered. The Supreme Council passed a bill that no member of the Supreme Council had seen, a bill that had not been passed by a committee. So we've already come to the point where they're adopting laws without a table -- this is a coup d'état, and this is a violation of the Constitution. I want to speak to Mr. Lavrinovich. Alexander Volodymyrovich, you always seemed like a great lawman, like a man who respected the law. What moral and legal imperatives were you guided by when you put to the vote the adoption of a referendum law that no one had seen before? Because even yesterday, Alexander Alexanderovich Omelchenko wrote his letter to the Head of the Supreme Council, which is not ready for this question, that it is the amendments of the representatives of the “Blok of Yulia Timoshenko” to this law. We've heard lies today, we've heard immorality today, I've been talking to colleagues I've worked with here for 15 years, what you've come up with, honorable people when you're adopting laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u120	Please. Dear Ivan Alexanderovich, if you have asked me a question, I will answer you. In accordance with the Ukrainian Supreme Council’s Rules, following the first reading of the draft law, the Ukrainian National Deputies are given two weeks to make proposals. The committee should then prepare him for consideration. Since this bill was approved on September 19, 2008, the time for submission of proposals was long overdue. And the committee was to consider proposals that might have been made at the time. Since the authorized first deputy head of the committee had reported that the committee had not considered proposals that had not come forward, the Supreme Council of Ukraine had therefore put to the vote a draft law that had not only been seen but more than 300 deputies had been supported in the first reading as a concept of law. Therefore, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a regular decision and legitimized the right of Ukrainian citizens to participate directly in the administration of the State. Please, the following national deputies Moses and Pavlovsky pass on the right to speak to Bondarenko Volodymyr Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u121	Vladimir Bondarenko, the Yuli Block of Timoshenko. Today I would like to turn not only to the Parliamentary Hall but, above all, to the Chinese, to the Ukrainian citizens who are forced to live or exist today in the capital of Ukraine, which has been transformed from year to year into a city that is not fit for housing and life. First of all, I would like to point out that this whole situation is based on the terrible corruption that is in Kiev. And it penetrated all the spheres of life of the city, first of all the spheres of government. The urban governance scheme is now built in such a way that the areas are virtually devoid of any possibility of influencing the situation. This year's budget has been approved in such a way that they barely bring up the most pressing problems that arise, they can't affect the situation in the fields of culture, education, sport, medicine. They are practically coming out of the residential and utility sectors, although the Kyiv City Press, which is completely subordinated to Cherniewskie, keeps pointing its finger at the heads of areas that are now seemingly unruly. I would like to point out that in the Kiev City Council itself, a formed pool of irresponsibility created by the Leonidas Czernovecki Block; three representatives of the Mikoli Katernczuka Block, who were betrayed on the first day, which we warned the Chinese about during the elections; and three people from the “Litvina Block” who are constantly voting in the wrong way today, several representatives of the “Clitzka Block” have entered; it is in the vast majority of issues and, unfortunately, the Party of Regions. Why? Because each of them has his own interest, sometimes quite personal, sometimes noticeable, and so today there are so many deputies in Chernevski that can sanctify any of his own decisions, or the decision of his so-called young team. I want to tell you that in this scheme, the prosecutor's office is involved, from the General to the City, and any issue that is being raised today by the Chinese and the National Deputies is being undermined by the prosecution's protest, and then by peaceful observation, as one of the courts, or by several courts in Kiev, they are effectively destroyed. I can draw your attention that today we have passed a decision on administrative justice that will allow the case to be considered by those judges who will come by electronic means, I think this will be the first step in combating the criminal activity of this Czernevski clan, which has also been involved in the prosecution here in resolving its issues. I would like to point out that today's broken system of recruiting the city's services by the competent people, mostly the managers of the Pravex Bank take positions in the subway, in zoos, in the Kiev morgues, wherever money can be printed into the kyans. They are not interested in the fact that they have never worked a day in their lives in the field that they are entrusted with. I would like to point out that, on the basis of or on the top of this corruption, there is a senior official of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine, who rewards the corrupters constantly, as I have already talked about today, especially people, surprised that he has rewarded the “Orden of Jaroslav the Wise” of Leonid the Czernovecki, and today the commission is asking questions about his mental examination. True, I think it would be necessary for someone else to be taken in for such an examination by those who had a bearing on the Montenegro Prize case. The same applies to the award of Olesia Long, only according to his signatures given thousands of hectares of Kyiv land to the students, the students then gave the barriers these kilometers above Dniprom and today on the island of Zhukov approved the decision of the household court that everything is right, this recreational zone of the city of Kiev can be inhabited by individuals. And all of this is being sanctified, and I'm stressing again both the judiciary and the prosecutor's office. I want to say that nothing has been done in Kiev in this time of year to bring about order. First of all, the Kiev General Development Plan should be approved, and so far there are few. This makes it possible to build where the fallen, undisclosed historical-security zones, green areas, engineering zones that would be used to block new micro-regions that were not isolated from the surrounding areas, so the vachanals from the barrier caused over 400 conflicts in the city. I think that housing and utilities in Kiev are in worse shape than anywhere in Ukraine, because this is the only city in the country where there is no designated service provider, in Kiev there are those who eat housing services and there are no those who perform them. This is done consciously by several generations of Kyiv energy at the head of John Placzkov's time, and by others who have led to what is absolute irresponsibility, who provides services, there are no standards of service, the calculus is provided only by units of buildings. So it's just impossible to talk about tariffs in this situation, we don't know what standards are being implemented, we don't know how many rates of getting one service or another. The same applies to the social sphere. During the period of Chernovetsk, not only not only the record stores and bookstores, but also dozens of other objects that have become casinos, slot machines and so on. And Montenegro's visible position that he's fighting with machine guns has led to the fact that the company he's supporting has put these slot machines in the subway and elsewhere. Thus, today’s commission has touched only a small fraction of that terrible corruption, the terrible crime that is being committed in Kiev. I believe that the commission should continue to act, and if there is any possibility of changing prosecutors, including Kyiv, perhaps there will be people who will promote order in the capital! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u122	Question completed. The Commission proposes that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be approved on the basis of its work. [[Registration number 4504]] Please prepare for the vote on the draft ruling. It is on the basis of the draft Resolution on the report of the Interim Investigative Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the situation of violations of the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the adoption of unlawful decisions by officials of the Kiev City Council and its implementing body. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:05:54]] For 210 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, “Club of Timoshenko” – 153, “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense” – 30, Communists – 27, “Clocus of Lithuania” – 0. Please, the suggestions that will be Kirilo Borisovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, I don't want to say the motives that didn't lead to the vote, but I'm going to ask you to let us do it again. That's the offer. We vote for the report, on the basis of it, and then we vote, then we prepare a new draft decision, and we put it in next week, if possible. This is a proposal -- we vote in favour of the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, if there is a proposal by the chairman of the commission, Kiril Borisovich, to prepare a new draft decision, there is obviously no point in putting this on the basis of a vote. So I'm asking now, I'm putting to the vote a proposal for a commission and her head to prepare a new draft decision that can be considered as willing as possible after consideration by the Conciliation Board. No objections? I would like to place a motion on the vote for the commission and its head to prepare another draft ruling to be considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine after consideration by the Conciliation Council. Please. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:07:52]] For 231 Decision taken. Please prepare another project and the Conciliation Board will consider it. Dear colleagues, since we have only a morning plenary meeting today, it is clear that we must implement the decisions we voted on this morning. In this regard, the report of the next commission will no longer be available for consideration in the full program as proposed by the Rules. So now I'm going to call it a 30-minute break. And the next question we're going to consider is the draft Order on the Liberation of Yehanurov Yuri Ivanovich of the Secretary of Defense. At 12 o'clock, we'll continue our work for 38 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u125	The draft Order on the Liberation of Yehanurov Yuri Ivanovich is announced for consideration. from the Ukrainian Defense Minister's office. Yuri Ivanovich did not come to the Supreme Council of Ukraine because he preferred to participate in the National Security and Defence Council, which is currently taking place. From the initiators of the matter, the draft decree will be reported by the People’s Deputy Pisarenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, right now, I understand that there's going to be a slight decrease in the number of people attending the PNP meeting and perhaps one person entering with one status will go with another status. We have registered with the Supreme Council a draft decree on the release of Yury Ivanovich of Yehanurov as Ukraine’s Defence Minister. The basis for the registration of such a decision was the information that was provided on the basis of the audit of the Supreme Audit Office of Ukraine, and the results of the audit are evidence of numerous violations of Ukraine's laws, which were announced on 20 May 2009 at a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Appropriate appeals were sent simultaneously to the Attorney General’s Office for appropriate response. The authorities of the HeadCRO have detected abuses in the areas of food security for military personnel, unlawful management of the lands of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, violations in the area of the purchase of fuel-oil products. In particular, food purchases have been established for the Ukrainian Armed Forces at apparent overpriced prices nearly double. Thus, in December 2008, the Ministry of Defense purchased the following products: eggs — 18 bucks for 10 grand — while their retail price was 8.77; sausage for 68 grams for one kilogram at a broken price of 36, sugar for 7.44 pounds for 3.89 pounds for a broken price of pounds, and so on. The Ministry of Defence also had an unwarranted plan of an additional 115 million. Money for the food supply of the Armed Forces in 2008-2009. The Ministry of Defence of Ukraine allowed violations of legislation in the purchase of fuel-oil materials. Yes, the price of wholesale purchase by the A-76 Ministry of Gas Defence in March 2008 was 6g 30pcs per liter, when it could be purchased – 4.85. Gas A-95 was bought in bulk at 7.05, when the total price was much cheaper. The difference between wholesale and market price paid by the Ministry of Defence was nearly 50 percent. This is, I want to remind you, at a time when the government was fighting to reduce the price of fuel-oil materials almost a penny a day, crushing the price of oil traders. During the inspection, numerous violations were detected in the area of land administration of the Ministry of Defence, namely: illegal transfer of land defence authorities to the executive authorities, local self-government authorities, the granting of consent to change the target destination of the defence lands, the refusal of use of defence land. Yes, during the period of December 24, 2007, after the first of April 2009, without the knowledge and agreement of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Defence was transferred to a municipal and private property of about 263 hectares [263 ha], with a target of some 130 hectares of land being changed. I want to ask you, how many apartments were built during this time and handed over to the military? A new capital of Ukraine could be built here. Thus, there is now clear evidence that the Ministry is abusing its official duties. Head of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. In addition, the Ukrainian Defence Minister failed to implement the Ukrainian Act on the Armed Forces for 2008. The size of Ukraine’s Armed Forces has not been brought into line with the requirements of the law. This is the first time in the history of Ukraine that a minister ignores the requirements of the law and ignores the orders of the Cabinet of Ministers. This is documented, including by the numerous appeals made by the people's deputies, the National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council to the Attorney-General's Office, the President of Ukraine, the Security Service, and so forth. All the facts mentioned show that Jehanurov Jury Ivanovich was wrong in his position. For consideration by the Supreme Council, the issue of the release of Yehanurov Yuri Ivanovich from office of Ukrainian Defence Minister was raised. Pursuant to article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution of Ukraine and the decision of the Constitutional Court of 11 December 2007 on the order of appointment, termination of the powers of members of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Supreme Council of Ukraine may exercise its powers of discharge without the appointment of the President. Dear colleagues, please support our decision by voting in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u127	Any questions for Valery Volodymyrovich? There's a question. Please sign up. Karpuk Vladimir Georgievic, please
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u128	Dear Mr. Valery! Usually, there is such a practice in the Supreme Council of Ukraine that if there are such serious accusations or even far less serious, a temporary commission of inquiry is established in the Supreme Council. The relevant decision is registered. Why? First question. Why is it that without the work of the interim commission of inquiry, there is an immediate decision to release information? That's the first question. Next. The head of the Chambers of Auditors, Valentin Simonenko, has made a statement that over the past three years, six audits have been conducted by the Banking Chamber of Finance and Budget for the Armed Forces of Ukraine. And, as Mr. Simonenko claims, that some of the irregularities on the part of the Ministry of Defence's budget funds have not been identified and that this is essentially a "founding" of a defence minister. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u129	Thank you, Your Honor. In answer to your question, I want to start with the first. You know, today, unlike other issues, when we turn the work of the TSC into political motivations, we've decided we'll get to the bottom of this. You, each of the deputies, have a reference to the results of a review by the working group of the Ministry's decisions on the transfer to the executive authorities and local self-government of the defence lands, the granting of consent and so on with regard to the activities of the Ministry of Defence. This test report confirms all what I call a violation, so we've gone perhaps more radically but effectively. How many more countries can tolerate constant accusations of corruption. Today, these charges must be evaluated and voted in the session room. As for other tests in which there are no violations, we did not have them in the Committee’s material, which is headed by Mr. Grizzenko today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u130	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u131	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland’s Defenders Dear reporter, it's a shame that there's no minister of defense today, that he didn't think it was necessary to come here today for 10 minutes or 15 minutes and answer questions. But were there in your mind those documents that we, in particular, sent -- the Party of Fatherland Defenders -- about the mysterious criminal schemes that were being done in the Department of Development and the purchase of the Ministry of Defence from a well-established budget for tens of millions of dollars in military equipment that actually turned out to be unfit for appropriate military use. And that's where the money went. This was about the production of rockets. One-off anti-tank missiles, it was about the manufacture of domestic scouts, which resulted in the purchase of foreign vehicles, which are totally useless for us. Have you met him?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u132	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to say that I had the honour of taking part in the meeting of the committee that considered the question of the purpose of Mr. Yehanurov's release, this is the Anatolia Grizzenka Committee. I want to say that there are professionals there, in this area, who have provided much more information about the problems that exist today in the Ministry of Defence. If we do not ask today the hard question of the restoration of the Ukrainian army and the viability of the Ukrainian army, we do not know what this will lead to as an independent democratic state. Today, self - defense is constantly declining and constantly being destroyed. So today, the Supreme Council must give a hard answer to all those who have gathered at the Ministry of Defence to meet their own needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u133	Kulczynski Mikola Grigorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u134	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u135	National MP Kerdzer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u136	Jaroslav Kenzior, “For Ukraine” MP. You know, I'm listening to all this "faith" around the Minister of Defense, and I recall not an anecdote, but a perfectly credible fact that when they tried the U.S.A. and read it to him, as it were, in what they accused him of, he said: "Dear Lords of Inquiry, you would rather judge me for raping Clara Chetkin -- that would be more likely." Please tell the Honorable Reporter that you are accusing all of your sins, as it were, that the army is collapsing and your leader, your Prime Minister, has promised to make a professional army by 2008, why don't you mention that today? And the last. [[B in m in s a l in]] And the last. Like this, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u137	Finish the question, Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u138	Please tell me how this is consistent with the Constitution of the Secretary of Defense's Liberation. Because the application should be submitted by the President of Ukraine for the release of the Minister of Defense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u139	Thank you for asking. You know, given that information was given to you at an open meeting of the Supreme Council, I think the fact of the rape of Clara Chetkin will be checked. You know, as far as the seriousness of your question is concerned. I wanted to give you this. I have already referred to the decision of the Constitutional Court and the Constitution of Ukraine, which states that this is solely the mandate of the Supreme Council to decide on the release of the Minister of Defence. All the facts set forth in our decree, in our view, in the view of the drafters of the bill, allow us to talk about the fact that this decree can be voted today in general. [[This is Andrew Kožemiakin and Valerius Pisarenko.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, the national deputy, Andrija Volodymyrovich, has many questions, so he has been given his right to ask questions by the national deputies Arjevetin and Moses. Please ask a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u141	Paribay Andrey, MP “For Ukraine!” I would like to ask if the reporter, Mr. Valérie, understands the consequences of a positive vote on the matter? We were in a similar situation not long ago when we filmed the foreign minister, who was also represented by the President of Ukraine, Yushchenk, and recorded him as if for some deliberate business on the island of Snakes. But it was clear that this was a purely external order, and it was taken down, voted only for having the dignity to answer the Russian ambassador with contempt for Ukraine. The same is happening today. But most of all, then the parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” warned that you have votes but no votes to appoint a new minister. And for the past six months, the country has been living without a foreign minister. Today you want to leave Ukraine without a minister of defense again for half a year or more. You want to hit Yushchenkov, but you will hit Ukraine first. You are fighting in Ukraine’s security, you are fighting in our national security. I want to ask, do you realize the consequences of your decision on Ukraine? Is it convenient for anyone abroad, or is it not this scenario imposed on the Kremlin? The second question. Why the submission was not made by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, publicly as she promised from television, and because of you, the young man makes you sound these figures, which are not really defined by the court or the prosecutor's office, but are simply raised by the Prime Minister's body, which has actually become the penal organ of the Cabinet of Ministers, the KLA, which is the head of the former BUT veteran. Don't you think it would be fairer and fairer if the Prime Minister had taken responsibility and submitted it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine? And most of all. These numbers that you call these numbers are determined by the D.A.'s office, by the court, by who are these numbers determined that you've talked them into all over the country here from the Supreme Council's rostrum? The “For Ukraine” MP calls on everyone to answer this question, including you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u142	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u143	Thank you, dear colleague, for your emotional question. Of course, we have a premonition of the consequences that we expect of accepting this decision. I'll get back to you. First. We believe that as soon as our decision is taken at the Ministry of Defense, corruption will cease. The other one. We think that's how the Ministry of Defense is going to have the power of the state, and at least one tank is going to stay, instead of moving from one place to another. Third. We believe that on the ground the polygons will stop building cottages all over Ukraine. We think it's necessary for the soldiers of the Ukrainian army to eat properly and not have the money cut down on it, and not to buy any surpluses, and then not put billions of dollars in budgets on the Supreme Council to feed the soldiers. We believe that our army must be properly armed, properly clothed, and well fed. This will be the result of today’s decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u144	Have a seat, please. Fellowship from the committee of the First Deputy Head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Olga Borisovna Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u145	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues. After considering the issue of the release of Yehanurov from office as Ukrainian Defence Minister and the draft Supreme Council decrees on the liberation of Yehanurov from office as Defence Minister, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government notes this. These draft regulations have been developed by the legal entities of the legislative initiative with a view to implementing the supervisory function of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In them, the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes, in accordance with section 12 of the first article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, to release Yehanurov Jury Ivanovich from office of Minister of Defence of Ukraine. The authors are referred to a number of violations of current legislation in the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence system, which were the basis for the above-mentioned project. Illegal operations with special technology that has been involved in the disposal of nuclear weapons storage facilities, illegal planning of the change of owner of the territorial resortology and rehabilitation centre “Crime”, violation of the Cabinet's decree on 2 April 2008 on measures to improve the management of state property. [[Number 313]] The illegal establishment of a military-medical office of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine in violation of the Presidential Decree of 27 December 2005 and the Cabinet of Ministers of 12 March 2005 and the attempt to create the Ukrainian Armed Forces Chief Military Medical Authority. The creation of such a government is contrary to the decree of the President of Ukraine of December 27, 2005 and the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of March 12, 2005. The violation was committed with the appointment of Major General of Melnik Medical Services. It is illegal to provide advisory services in the Ministry of Defence's administration system, as well as in violation of the current legislation, which are covered by the monitoring measures carried out by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine's Chief Auditorate. Similar documents were sent to the committee by the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Turkinov, and the head of the Chief Auditor-General of Ukraine, Sivulski. They provide information on illegal legislation, inaction, inefficient use of budgetary resources, loss of defence land. These materials relate to the verification of public purchases and the efficiency of the use of funds at the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine during the purchase of fuel-oil materials by corresponding contracts from 31 March 2008. A public audit of the implementation of the budget programme in part of the efficiency of the use of budget funds for the provision of food by the Armed Forces of Ukraine in 2008 and in the completed reporting period of 2009. Checks by the Working Group on the Legality of Decisions in the Ministry on the transfer to executive authorities and local self-governance of defence lands, the granting of agreement on the change of purpose and the refusal of use of such land between 24 December 2007 and 1 April 2009. Taking into account the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 11 December 2007 in the case of constitutional submission of national deputies, professional interpretation of the provisions of article 85, part one, of the Constitution in the context of the provisions of article 114, part two and article 115, of the Constitution, “the order of termination of the powers of members of the Cabinet of Ministers”, according to which the Supreme Council may exercise its powers of discharge as Minister of Defence and without the appointment of the President of Ukraine. Having determined the position of Vice-President of the Executive Authorities, National Deputies of Ukraine, Committee members, Defence Minister of Ukraine Yehanurov, representatives of the Supreme Audit Authority of Ukraine, taking into account the appeal of First Deputy Prime Minister Turkinov to support the liberation of Yehanurov from the post of Defence Minister, taking into account the decision of the Supreme Council Committee on National Security and Defence to support the draft decision of the Supreme Council on the liberation of Yehanurov from the post of Defence Minister, submitted by the National Deputies of the Republic of Ukraine to the Court of Justice with the Second Party, and having discussed the issue in a comprehensive manner, the Committee approved the recommendation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine according to paragraph 12 of the First Article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Second Party of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Registration number 4513]] Keep your mouth shut.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u146	The question to Olga Borisovni? Please sign up for the questions. National MP Ivanenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u147	Please pass the word to Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u148	Can't you just put Pass it on. Oh, Baby. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u149	National MP Lazko, please have a question. To Olga Borisovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u150	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! I didn't understand. I was thinking of talking, so I signed up. I don't have a question report in principle, I'm going to vote in favour of this bill. Because there one of the colleagues asked what the consequences were, except for the consequences of the decision-making that Valérie Pisarenko had already made, I might add from myself that maybe a little bit more order in the army would become, perhaps the army and the Ministry of Defense would be governed by a professional person who was concerned about it. And I'm also predicting that you're not going to take the money, that you're one of your colleagues, and you're saying that you're fertilizing the country's security. So I want to let you know.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u151	Because we have a discussion ahead of us, Karpuk Vladimir Georgievovich, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u152	Dear Mrs. Olga! In fact, in the Ministry of Defence there is a large amount of property left in military towns, there are many lands that are virtually unused and not regulated in the legislature by the Cabinet of Ministers. There are many appeals from local administrations, district district councils on the transfer to municipal property, and these issues have not been resolved for years, but the land is gradually rising. And as far as I know, it's been going on for many, many years, and as far as I know, it's Yuri Ivanovich who's been trying to put it in that order, at least to settle it at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers and at the legislative level. It's not done until now, it's convenient for someone, and we know who. And why is the question being asked by blaming this whole weight of responsibility, which has been done by both the Cabinet of Ministers and the Prime Minister for these issues to the acting Minister of Defence. What would you say about that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u153	Thank you for asking. I want to say the next thing. Each minister, he is the manager of the highest class, must be, at least, that and if the minister of defense of the Yehanurov, when he came into office and saw that there were some illegal acts going on before him, he should not have followed the path that perhaps someone had led in an imperfect way, he had to work in the legal field. And this question was raised by the committee, and I told him: “You know, it is the right and duty of the minister to report in agreement on his issues such as those relating to land and real estate with the Cabinet of Ministers, because it does not belong to the Minister of Defence personally, but to the Cabinet of Ministers.” So the documents that the First Deputy Prime Minister gave indicated that the Minister of Defense had done something at first, and then it turned out that the Cabinet of Ministers was not aware of this. If he were to reconcile these issues through the Cabinet of Ministers and get permits, it would look very different.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u154	National Deputy Costenko, please. Teeth Valentin Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u155	Dear Olga Borisovna, I have a question of this order. We have addressed this subject, and we have considered this issue at a meeting of the Committee on National Security and Defence. Well, you understand very well that the issue of Ehanurov is only a small overriding part of the iceberg of the problem that has arisen with the Armed Forces of Ukraine. In fact, over the past 18 years, all defence ministers, their deputies, heads of departments have consistently destroyed the logistics base of the Armed Forces, i.e. directly disrupted it. That's one problem. The second is the disposal of ammunition. I want to tell you, you don't think it's necessary to complete Pisarenko's draft decree with a point that said that you should have the Attorney General's Office, along with the C.R.A., checked the Ministry of Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u156	Please, Olga Borisovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u157	Thank you. I am authorized to resolve the committee and the committee’s decision to support the decision of Pisarenko and Cosemyakina. Of course, I can't stand outside that my postulate is the one who doesn't feed his army, will feed a stranger. And I think that in this case we need to address the issue in a comprehensive way. But with regard to the committee, I can say that, from the point of view of state building, we can talk about this being an unqualified management.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u158	Have a seat, please. Let's sign up for a discussion. Pavlovsky Andry Mikhailovich. The right to speak is vested in the People’s Deputy of Petruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u159	The honourable chairman, the honourable colleagues, I had to study very carefully the documents of the commission that worked in the Armed Forces, and I'll tell you, I looked at the professionals who worked there, and they actually did work honestly and well. And if at least 10 percent of that truth is shown there, the defence minister in this office will do nothing. That's what I'm telling you honestly and frankly, because the Armed Forces have always suffered from the fact that corruption has flourished, it has been and is. And that's where she needs to be stopped. But as a military officer, I was surprised, and I always asked myself when I was studying these documents constantly: When the Cabinet of Ministers decreed to ban the alienation of land, the Secretary of Defense handed over 54 plots of land, objects without permission from the Cabinet of Ministers. And you can imagine in the city of the Prime Minister what its attitude was toward this minister who was not fulfilling the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers. I'm counting on you to answer to the full program. A minister who does not comply with the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers and members of the Cabinet of Ministers cannot be a minister. He'll change everything. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u160	The National MP, Arjevetin, is transferring the right to speak to the People’s Deputy of Paris. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u161	Paribay Andrey, MP “For Ukraine!” Ladies and gentlemen, I would like us to look at this issue, which is now being considered in the hall, more broadly and more globally. I am reminded of these words by President Putin, a well-known political scientist, who said: “Russian interests end where they will be stopped.” And is today what is happening in the hall not an attempt to promote external interests here in Ukraine. We are aware of the state of the Ukrainian state that is under constant attack on Ukraine by the Russian Federation. These attacks of various formats are political, information, economic attacks, and in recent events in Georgia we have heard threats from Russian military personnel about possible military aggression against Ukraine. Today, do we realize that by taking down the Minister of Defense and putting this issue on the agenda, we put Ukraine's army and Ukrainian defence at risk. Is it not the reason that today the question of Minister Yehanurov has become a question of whether there are any figures from this rostrum, whether it has been the reason that Yehanurov has consistently stood the course for Euro-Atlantic integration, or whether it has not been the reason that Yehanurov has in principle claimed that the Black Sea fleet of Russia should be removed from Ukraine in 2017, as provided for in the Ukrainian Constitution, or whether it is not the reason that the Ukrainian interests in the Black Sea fleet today are supported by the Minister of Defence in the Black Sea fleet? Here in the hall, there's a big conspiracy that we've already talked about. This plot between BUTT and the Party of Regions can have devastating consequences for Ukraine. And it's very typical that the first blow that we're trying to make is actually the representatives of this conspiracy, and I'm not afraid of that word, of conspiracies and pounds -- it's to hit our nation's national defense, it's to hit on what's most important today for Ukraine. At a time when there are hot spots around Ukraine, when we see events unfolding in Georgia, as events unfold in Transnistria, you want to weaken the Ukrainian army. The parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” calls on all the deputies who are in the hall to stop and see what your decision can do. I know how many of the deputies, especially after the Ogreskov vote, then regretted that members of their faction had embarked on this political execution. I urge you to remember, to stop this political massacre, and the parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” urges you not to vote in favour of this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u162	Kenzior Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u163	Jaroslav Kenzior, MP “For Ukraine!” The honourable presiding, honourable fellow national MPs, I am far from saying that there are no flaws in the army, as in many other areas of activity and life of our state. But it certainly is a very interesting trend. First. When there are open attempts to destroy Ukraine's independent state, which we've been talking about lately and we're seeing the latest developments, it's clear that the first thing we need to do is to destroy the power of our nation and free a defence minister who really stands in state positions and doesn't look, as it were, in the mouth of the Kremlin. If I speak today and focus on the violations in the Ministry of Defence system, I ask another question: not in our customs service, which is staffed by the representatives of BUT, where smuggling plays both sides when one of the deputy heads of customs has been appointed, now transferred to Odessa, well, I don't want to use epithets, but mother contraband is Taras Kozak. And all of Horoshkovsky's application, the former head of customs, to the Prime Minister to release this piece, which we know in Lviv as head of Western Regional Customs, who, along with Junior Medvedchuk Sergei and General Sal, was the head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and with flashes, was accompanied by militia cars. Two servings of Horoshkowski were, he personally showed me, to the Prime Minister, to release this man so as not to compromise the customs service, no reaction of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Another trend. We see that we fired, excuse me, the foreign minister, in his stately position there was no doubt. Now we have a minister of defense. It is all about eliminating the leaders of those structures that are primarily for the protection of the interests of the Ukrainian national state, not the cosmopolitan state, the state that is intended only for looting, for the enrichment that is meant to create such a state, these two blocks, the two mega-parties – the BUT and the “Regions”. Masks, company, off! Today we see the Pharisees, as it were, in all their beauty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u164	Grishenko Anatoly Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u165	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! On our committee, this question was considered. Of the 12 national deputies present, 11 supported retirement, one held up. What are the reasons? Now, I want to say how many people have stolen, how many are sitting there, this is a matter for the Public Prosecutor's Office to decide with the HeadCRA. This is not for the Supreme Council Hall. But there are clear and documented reasons for the minister’s resignation. First. The Minister has failed to comply with the law we have passed, the law “On the Number of Armed Forces 2008”. I didn't do the demonstration without making any changes. On December 31st last year, the state of the army was to be in line with our decision of 191 thousand. [[five factions]] There were 199.5,000 in the state. [[I have official help.]] This, in particular, also created problems for the manipulation of how much money is being asked, how much is being spent, what has already been fixed by the HeadCRA. That's the first one. The other one. The minister has the right to make decisions about the alienation of property. But the secretary of defense has no right to make that decision when the government, by its own orders, in which the minister voted in favour of him, has forbidden it. And at a time when the government had official orders to ban the alienation of property, Minister Yehanurov, knowing that, signed 53 decisions. As much as it's lost, I repeat, let the prosecution appreciate it, but it's not possible for an army to run by a man who breaks the law and doesn't comply with the government's decision. When I was at Suvorovsk School, the late commander of Percin’s platoon, Anatoly Ivanovich, taught me: “Son, if you went to the volunteer, you got two outfits out of line, and if you asked ‘maybe I will go to the wolf,’ they said to you ‘unable’ and then you left, then you will choose the full program.” Yehanurov violated the government’s prohibitions in writing, and the lawyers who prepared these decisions should be responsible accordingly. You know, Alexander Ivanovich and I are the Kuzmukrez people, although we were both ministers, but the assessment of the situation coincides with our assessments. If the Yehanurov team is still in charge for several months, it will take 7-10 years to restore morale, discipline and order in the army. To me personally, the committee is addressed from lieutenant to general, they come, they say: “Stop. You can't view an army as an excess of property as a financial outflow. It is the army and the people." I propose to support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u166	Liszko Oleg Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u167	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. I don't think there will be any people in this room who could accuse the absence of patriotism by Anatolia Grizzenka, who has just called for the House to vote in favour of the Secretary of Defense. I don't think there'll be any people in Ukraine. who could accuse the Yulia Tymoshenko Block of lack of patriotism and of protecting national interests. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm on the stand, let's not scream, we don't have to go far to confirm. Yesterday our faction unanimously voted in favour of increasing responsibility for the abuse of the national flag. What do you need to confirm your patriotism? Today our faction unanimously votes in favour of the 20th anniversary of the National Movement of Ukraine. What do you need to confirm your patriotism? [[B in m in s a l in]] Two days ago, our faction voted in favour of the Zarubinsky bill to increase responsibility for two passports. What does it take to confirm our patriotism? I think the citizens of Ukraine realize that the faction of Yulia Timoshenko is always, is and will be in patriotic state positions. [[Applause]] But it is not necessary to steal, to cover up corruption in the army by trying to destroy, that we demand the resignation of Yehanurov because, you see, we are either looking into the mouth of the Kremlin, or we are reducing the defense of the state. I would like to point out to all two well - known countries the fact that in the time of Yehanurov’s ministerial career, the power of the state was strengthened in the forks. Recall how in the winter of 2009 the air traffic system was shut down because there was nothing to pay for electricity. The money was, the system was shut down by Yehanurov's team on purpose to discredit the government of Timoshenko. And our country has remained defenseless, including against those who are being told about by our "patriot colleagues" in cages. Let's remember, there's a factory like this in Kiev. The Kyiv generator plant, which manufactures electronic equipment for equipment, missiles, and missile complexes. Last year, the entire factory team worked for a defense order. At the end of the year, money was removed from the factory by the Yehanurovaws to buy food. The factory is bankrupt, the only factory in Ukraine that manufactures electronics for missile complexes. What kind of food? Eggs of 18 bracelets a decade instead of eight bracelets, or sausages that don't fit into a soldier's diet at all, 70 bracelets a pound, or fire for seven grand apiece when it's in a 5.70 split. That's where millions and tens of millions of dollars are.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u168	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u169	And we're here trying to convince the public that Yehanurov is a shield of defense. It's a huge hole in the defense of the country that needs to be patched up today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u170	The last performance is Kulczynski Mikola Georgievicz.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u171	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! I have to tell Oleg Lazko that I highly doubt, more than deeply doubt the patriotism of the BUT faction. Including the Prime Minister. And I think why is it so hasty to initiate the resignation of the Secretary of Defense? And I think this haste is because you have a guilty conscience. Because you're preparing an anti-constitutional conspiracy, you're preparing a call called "Januković-Timoshenko" that wants to turn the Ukrainian people back into cattle and cattle, and you're afraid that the Minister of Defense is going to fight this. And that's the main reason. I am confident that one percent of Ukrainian citizens will not believe that Yehanurov is a corrupter. And pretty much everyone, 99 percent of Ukrainian citizens understand that this is a political debate over the Ministry of Defence. Just like it was a political dispute over the Ogre. It's all an external plan to destabilize Ukrainian society, which you sincerely, with great zeal, do. That's why I doubt your patriotism. Because I know that the patriotic government would not buy four million tons of meat, and its producer of cattle would be forced to cut into the roots that today, all those who produce cattle, were forced to cut. Because you're buying four million tons, your government. That's the patriotism of BJT. I'm convinced that whatever the evidence may be, it's, you know, small-scale malaise, such service and prevention in front of the northern neighbour, before his plans to turn Ukraine into a dominion of hollice, of growth, of little Russian, not of the Ukrainian state with a proud and free Ukrainian people. And that's your position and your job.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u172	The discussion is over. Is there a need for a report in the closing word? None. Is there a need for a coconspirator in the closing word? None. Thus, all the regulatory requirements for dealing with this issue have been met. In implementing the mandate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of Yehanurov Yuri Ivanovich from the post of Minister of Defence of Ukraine is put to the vote. [[Registration number 4513]] People's deputies please identify themselves. [[13:25:13]] For 363 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 161, "Club of Timoshenko" – 152, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 4, communists – 27, "Clocus of Lithuania" – 19. For reasons of interest, please National Deputy Kirilenko Vjačeslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u173	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine”. Clearly, the coalition from which they are baptized has just taken place. Now they've taken down the Ukrainian Secretary of Defense, and I've got a question that's been raised by a patriot, but six months ago, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, by the way, there's no minister of finance in this government either, and now there's not going to be a minister of defense for at least six months. The question is: Is that patriotism? And that's the high government position of colleagues who give different arguments, but behind the trees they can't see the forest, and this is because there's no one to execute the external order now, an independent foreign policy course and an independent pro-Ukrainian defence policy. If you had consulted before, called the other name the Secretary of Defense, shown that you were in pain, then it would have been one, and yes, by having a simple political settlement, we were once again convinced that the future coalition would have nothing to do with Ukrainian interest. And people need to know about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u174	A recording of the “Variance” is being announced. Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u175	Dear Alexander Vladimirovich! Dear colleagues! In recent times, society has been insistent and insistent on the idea that the standard of living of people depends directly on the form of government. That the parliamentary republic, headed by the Prime Minister, is not capable of ensuring a high quality of life and decent social protection, only a presidential form of government and is only capable of raising social standards at European level. I mean, it's all a complete lie and it's not real. We all know how the United States, led by the President and the highest standard of living and Germany, is headed by the Prime Minister, and also by the highest standards of human life. The quality of life of the people depends first and foremost on the respect of the highest officials of the State, the Constitution of the country and their inadvertent adherence to each line, each letter of the basic law. What is the ideal political scenario for Ukraine for the coming months, not from the point of view of corporate, party interests, but from the perspective of the State and people. First, Ukrainian policy needs to move as quickly as possible towards a common understanding of the philosophy of the completion of the constitutional process in Ukraine and to put a final stop to the fall in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which requires the closure of the apex of political war today, the formation of a broad coalition of political forces in parliament, the serious strengthening of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the consolidation of the efforts of all authorities to combat the crisis. That is, to radically shift the emphasis from the political struggle inside power to the joint struggle of power against the crisis. Second, on a new constitutional basis, as has been done in most democratic European States, to hold the President's elections in Parliament, not in two parts. The third, immediately after the election of the new President, without losing momentum, without transforming the coalition without forming a new Government, to consolidate the efforts of the President, all branches of power and society in the direction of economic recovery of the country. Thus, to put an end to the permanent electoral process that has plagued our country since 2004. The long-awaited peace and tranquillity, stability and confidence of tomorrow must be restored to Ukrainian land. It is necessary to bring the country together, consolidate society and, on this basis, remove Ukraine from the deepest economic crisis, and to ensure dynamic, economic growth and its subsequent conversion: raising social standards for people's lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u176	Arjewitin Stanislav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u177	Stanislaw Arzeviteen. A parliamentary group for Ukraine! Dear citizens of Ukraine! This year, the Ukrainian Cossacks Council of the President of Ukraine, together with the Ministry of Education, launched a programme of national and patriotic education for children and young people based on the best achievements of Cossack education and psychology. In April and May of this year, a competition of children's and military-sporting Ukrainian Cossack "Sokiljura" was held throughout Ukraine, involving more than 6,000 young people and girls. From May 22 to 24, a final part of the All - Ukrainian competition was held in Kiev, with teams from all parts of Ukraine from the 10 districts of Kiev. This work has become a joint project of the Ministry of Education and Science, for the sake of Ukrainian Cossacks and the National Renaissance Center for the support of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Internal Affairs. And it was a powerful example of the consolidation of Ukrainian society from the Ministry to the Cossack Smoking in the village, around the physical and sports, military and patriotic and spiritual education of young people and children. This program, initiated by the Ukrainian Cossacks Ministry of Education and Science, instills in the growing generation the best qualities of protecting the country's pride for it and the heroic stories of our people. The organizers of this program realize that a nationally conscious, patriotic youth is the hope of Ukraine, the guarantee of its worthy future. This year, more than 6,000 children of Ukraine gathered spiritually and physically during the goats ’ contests, felt worthy of their sons and daughters in the future to be responsible for their fate. In the following year, we plan to double or triple the number of Ukrainian youths and girls participating in the child-to-goat and military-sport patriotic game "Sokil Jura" of Ukrainian Cossacks, which is becoming increasingly popular. The conduct of the All - Ukrainian Final at the end of May of this year in Kiev became the first step to celebrate the President’s decree of the 360th anniversary of the creation of the Ukrainian, Cossack State. Who was on May 24th in Mihailovska, Sofia's Mayans of Independence could see the festival of participants in the Jura program and military units of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the Ministry of Interior, the Ukrainian Security Service and the Cossacks. On behalf of the Council of Ukrainian Cossacks to the President and as co-chair of the Orgcommission for the entire Ukrainian competition from this rostrum, I would like to thank the Ministers of Vakarczuk, Yehanurov, Lucenka, Shandri, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Head of the State Border Service of Lithuania, the Rector of the Academy of Sciences, General Mikulin Viktor Petrovich. I think that 6,000 mothers who raised these “juries”, Ukrainian boys and girls, worthy sons and daughters of Ukraine are joining me in thanking me. From the bottom of my heart, I desire young descendants of the goat’s glory of good health, happiness, success in teaching, and new accomplishments! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u178	Wheelchair Vadim Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u179	Respectable colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The draft decree on the appointment of special members of the Sevastopol City Council, which was submitted to Parliament by the People's Deputies from the “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” bloc, can be described as a wild form of legal nihilism and “mad fascism”. In accordance with article 1 of the Law on the Status of the People's Deputies, members are obliged to comply with the Constitution, laws and generally recognized morals when exercising their powers. But the medieval Russianophobic hatred apparently hit these anti-national representatives so hard that they lost not only the remnants of conscience and morality but also respect for the Law and their fellow citizens. In their view, the Sevastopol City Council was responsible for the fact that, in carrying out its decision, elected citizens had declared education in the schools of Sevastopol in Russian and state Ukrainian. The probably Zitomirian, Viennese and Ternopolian lawyers did not open the Constitution, article 10, which guarantees the free development and use of Russian, did not read the laws of Ukraine establishing a compulsory study of Russian in all general education schools in Ukraine, article 27 of the Language Act. These “later oranges”, “skinning” in front of the eyes, have recently become so accustomed to tearing down, breaking down, Ukrainianizing, heroizing that they have dissolved themselves to a progressive weakness. The draft regulation is not only written with flagrant grammatical errors in Ukrainian but does not contain any meaningful part at all. Moreover, the text of the Order was fully used by Ivano-Frankovsky and proposed that the Sevastopol City Council should not be re-elected even to delete the words of the Ivano-Frankov Regional Council. The degenerative character of part of Ukrainian politics is simply a nuisance, just as President Yushchenko proposes to recognize the Ukrainian language as dying in Ukraine, so members of his faction want to disperse the city council, which in accordance with the laws of Ukraine is doing the will of its elected citizens. In view of the announcement that only 500 per cent of the need for native language teaching in Sevastopol is met in Ukraine, 91 per cent of the population in Sevastopol are Russian-speaking citizens. Thus, thanks to orders from the Minister of Education and the Ukrainianization situation, more than 91 per cent of Ukrainians are unable to receive live radio broadcasts in their own language, on television, and cannot read in their own language in the courts. This is the violation of human rights for which both the President and Kabmin and the Supreme Council are responsible. The fish is said to rot with its head and must begin treatment, with some parliamentarians personally and immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u180	The sand is Ivan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u181	W. Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Ladies and gentlemen, on May 29th, there was a meeting of the Permanent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, during which the order of the day of the June session of PARJE was approved. At the suggestion of the Paris Assembly, the issue of reviewing the previous ratified credentials of the Ukrainian delegation was included in the agenda. The reason for this was the violation by Ukraine of the Paris Legal Committee of the procedure for the appointment of European Court of Human Rights courts in determining candidates for the quota of Ukraine. The fact is that the Ministry of Justice, on behalf of the Government of Ukraine, introduced a third term of office to the judge of the European Court of Human Rights on 29 April 2007 on the basis of existing rules and procedures. But on September 14, the President of Ukraine wrote to recall the list, although interviews with candidates had already been scheduled for September 17. Two interviews took place at the same time that one of the candidates did not appear for the interview, and on September 28, he withdrew his candidacy. The next day, the president of the Assembly invited the Ukrainian government to complete the list. On October 3, the Ukrainian Minister of Justice resubmitted the third candidate, but on November 5, 2007, the new third candidate withdrew his candidacy. Despite the Assembly’s repeated request, the Government of Ukraine, in a person appointed by the Minister of Justice, has consistently refused to replace the missing candidate and insists on a new list sent to the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe. But the Assembly recognizes only the first incomplete list, since two candidates have already gone through interviews and were officially approved as candidates according to the rules of procedure. The Assembly therefore urges the submission of a new third candidate. However, despite the fact that the Minister of Justice, Mikol Onichtuk, had been informed of the possible consequences in the event of delay in solving the problem, he, by his letters of explanation of 14 and 28 May 2009, had actually frozen the conflict situation because the issue was within the exclusive authority of the executive branch and the draft resolution envisaged sanctions for a parliamentary delegation that did not have a mandate to determine the candidates for the judge. But without having any other means of influence, apart from the parliamentary rostrum, I have informed in writing that the situation of the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Minister of Justice has been complicated, requiring action to prevent the deterioration of Ukraine's authority in the European and world arenas. Please consider my speech a parliamentary request. And the pro-presidential officials of the Ministry of Justice personally to the Minister of Justice, Mr. Eunicechuk, would like to remind you that Europeanism should be confirmed, not by slogans and statements, but by concrete actions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u182	Pavlovsky Andry Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u183	Dear radio listeners, distinguished colleagues, Andrew Pavlovsky “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I would like to ask you a question about the health of each of us. This is about informing citizens about the quality of food we use, how good it is for our health, or how bad it is for us. I want to say about informing citizens about the presence of genetically modified organisms in food. [[GMO — Short term]] Food products using GMOs now occupy almost half of Ukraine’s food market at expert estimates. At the same time, the effects of GMOs on human health to the end, scientists say, have not been studied on human health. Therefore, according to article 50 of the Constitution, every citizen of Ukraine is entitled to receive complete and reliable information about the products he eats. And this information -- as recorded in the Constitution -- no one has the right to conceal it from our citizens. At the same time, we have a number of bills: the Biosafety Act, the Consumer Rights Act, where it is said, in one way or another, that citizens have such information and that it should be marked. In addition, I want to remember that as early as 2002, Ukraine had signed the so-called Cartagena Treaty of the European Union on Biosafety and Rules for this Agreement, the Regulation on Genetically Modified Foods and Feeds, which provides for mandatory labelling of food products. At the same time, we don't see a message on food labels that is or is not a GMO. Although this is a European practice. For the purpose of closing this gap, Bill 4437 on what was given to me as Pavlovsky’s national deputy was passed. to the Food Safety Act, that now we should have 9 indicators on the label, there should be a tenth, there should be a label: GMO or no GMO. I think that's how we're going to protect consumers' right to full information and the right to choose. This is not about banning or restricting the consumption of GMOs; this is about the constitutional right of citizens to information. And I hope the common sense of my fellow MPs is that this right will be granted to them. By the way, the European Integration Committee recently confirmed that this bill is fully in line with European legislation. I look forward to the conclusions of these committees.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u184	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u185	This bill is submitted to the public, to the number of environmental organizations, to the activists of these environmental organizations. I urge you to actively discuss and support the bill. By the way, I'd like to give it to the government that made a decree on how to etiquette GMO food. We also need to resolve this issue at the legislative level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u186	People’s MP Pisarczuk passes on the right to speak to Kolychenko Vadim Vasilovich. Please, 6 minutes' notice, the next one was Vadim Koleschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u187	And for Pisarczuk. I was in favour of Samofal, thank you. Respected colleagues, respected voters, the Russianophobic, colonial politics that is now being established in Ukraine have led to paradoxical things called “the growth of racism and xenophobia”. This is a problem that the Ukrainian authorities have already begun to face, and it is beginning to grow in Ukraine like a snow coma. For example, in March 2009, the Lviv City Council, under pressure from the Lviv Freedoms Office, effectively banned the Jewish non-governmental organization Hasetarie from informing schoolchildren of the genocide of Jews during the Second World War as part of the educational project “Hand in hand”. The National Freedom organization has outraged schoolchildren's awareness of the Holocaust and, in particular, the episode of the documentary video chronicle of the Great Homeland War, which marked how women in national Ukrainian clothes welcomed German troops entering Lviv. Moreover, Freedom Management sent a request to the local prosecutor's office accusing the project organizers of anti-Ukraine activities. The Public Prosecutor's Office, after examining the case, decided on the legitimacy of the lessons being taught on the Holocaust. But the Lviv fans of the SS-Galicina have not calmed down in this and, using the city council and administration, have organized a formal celebration of the school directors who have allowed their children to attend the programme. To this end, the Lviv City Council commission was even established to conduct an examination of the film that had been shown to schoolchildren. As a result, a formal letter had been sent to Hasetarié, completely prohibiting it from implementing any of its programmes in the Lviv schools. The explanations were very simple: in the view of the Deputy City Chairman of the VO on Humanitarian Affairs, Vasily Kosova, the film on the Holocaust did not promote tolerance and mutual understanding. [[Think about it!]] This was the case with an international conference held in Stockholm in January 2000, at which Ukraine acceded to the Declaration on the Preservation of the Holocaust in the Modern World by studying and teaching the topic. Perhaps the Lviv mayors, as well as the Freedom figures, have a taste and a closer spirit of the ideology of Nazism and the glorification of the SS-Galicin Division, whose posters have recently decorated the streets of the city. And those who slaughtered Jews, Poles and others, Ukrainians, in the territory of Western Ukraine, who protected the concentration camp rather than the memory of their victims, millions of innocent elderly, women and children? It is sad and disturbing to see, as literally in our eyes, the wonderful city of Lviv, where wonderful people live, but through its leadership it is becoming a breeding ground for neofascism, anti-Semitism and intolerance in our country. In the same context, the so-called criminal case could be described, which triggered the Ukrainian HSP on the Holocaust. It's a shame to read Mr. Lätweichenko's statement that they brought the case of the dead against the dead. And yet, he claims that some of the special forces, drawing attention to Russia, do not wish to open their documents. So, I can report to Mr. Nattvajchenko and his archivists, while the Special Forces must protect the State, not history, and history is the case of historians. A book published in Russia contains official original documents that say that in Ukraine, Golodomor was produced by the hands of Ukrainians first, because the data I have, I am prepared to present to Mr. Ávájchenko and his archivaries, for example, confirm that in 32 years, 15 documents have been documented, 33 — more than 20 decisions and decrees of the Polituro on food and seeds assistance to Kiev, Kharkiv areas, Ukraine for certain types of products, for certain types of seed aid. However, archival documents tend to cover corruption, the illegal removal of grain and attempts at eye-washing by Ukrainian leaders. For example, the Ukrainian PSC notes that the work of local authorities in need of a ruling is being carried out. Noted by the lack of satisfaction, the fact of bureaucracy, the passing of bread on the protection of even the fists and the refusal of the aid of the needy. Despite the statements of the Ukrainian Civil Service in the Politburo CD. The U.S.S.S.R. that everything is good in Ukraine, however, decisions are being taken by the CPT Politburo on additional seed assistance to Ukraine. This is all because we do not see these documents today because of Ukrainian intelligence services, but they are published and freely located in Russia and Ukraine at bookshops. What kind of genocide might the Ukrainian nation be talking about when some Ukrainians were condemned to starvation by other Ukrainians? When representatives of many nationalities and peoples died throughout the Soviet Union. Rather, it is a sign of a sick society, one of the historical tragedies of our Ukrainian people. So why are Ukrainians being killed in the head with a frank hunger wound. 42 32-33 and form myths in society about the specially built famine of Ukrainians and about Moscow's hand? All of this is due to the systematic infection of Ukrainian society with morbid inadequacy, historical humiliation. It may be easier to manipulate people who are oppressed and embittered. Perhaps someone is preparing and looking for a convenient moment of social ruin, despair to name the enemies of all Ukraine. Nothing strengthens totalitarian rule like the image of an enemy. This was the beginning of fascism in Ukraine. The aim and provocation of this BSP is not only to deepen the Ukrainian inferiority complex, but also to further fuel Russian hysteria in society. I'm inviting the security services to come to my office, and I'm going to give them this great book. Let them spread it in Ukraine so that Ukraine will know the truth.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u188	Thank you, Vadim Vasilovich. Lukas Olenna Leonidina. Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich recorded, transferred the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u189	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address you with information that has puzzled me very much. On MP control, I'm in charge of protecting my baby. Today, she is eight years old, but when she was five years old, she was brutally raped by her own biological father. Miroslava Belczyk has fallen victim, has become a victim, and is still unable to protect her rights through corruption, camaraderie, the improper performance of her duties by employees, and by fellow workers in the city of Raven. The circumstances of Belczyk J.P., a citizen, have been documented. – her father had a particularly serious crime, particularly the rape in 2006, at the time she was 5 years old, beaten and threatened with murder. Today, however, there are obstacles to investigating a criminal case, falsifying and destroying evidence, delaying consideration, manifest prejudice, and unscrupulous mistreatment of judges in criminal proceedings. For three years this child has not been protected, and her father, who is in a detention facility, is not even deprived of parental rights. The judges had evidence that this person was a chronic alcoholic, a mentally ill person, that he had beaten and raped his own child, but today the court cannot decide whether to deprive him of his parental rights. And the rape investigation is taking a long time, and I think there may be no legal and judicial prospect. I appeal to you, not to be indifferent and to help this family. The circumstances of trying to destroy a child’s child’s victim’s video testimonials are carefully checked. Children’s drawings of depraved practices, photographs, child’s medical records, clothing with rapist’s semen, and other evidence have disappeared. At first, the law enforcement authorities tried to prevent and protect the truth and justice. And now they're defending themselves because the case is under the MP's control and under the control of the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine. I am addressing a long-appointed specialist in the fight against corruption, a deputy head of the Ukrainian Security Service, a resident of Level Mr. Gretzak: Mr. Gritzak, do something and deal with the corruption that is taking place today in the city of Raven. I believe that all who care about this matter today must protect the girl, and there can be no fair trial for this child in the city of Equinah. I demand that this case be referred to any city in Ukraine, so that this case is placed under the control of the Attorney General's Office, so that the Ukrainian Security Service will verify the involvement of the officials of the city of Level in child abuse, destruction of evidence, obstruction of justice and delaying the case, and I believe that today all those who are not indifferent.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u190	The National Deputy Illashov is delegating the right to speak to the People’s Deputy, Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u191	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. You know, I was listening to Olenna Lukash right now, and I'm just in shock. I had ants on my skin, and I would like to contact the Supreme Council Secretariat to prepare an appropriate address. I think it's not only Olena Lukash who should take special control of this issue, but we're all national deputies. And I'd like to talk about two other problems that concern you. By the way, I'm joining in to personally monitor this issue. And I'd like to talk about two more facts that I know as a national MP that require, I think, immediate response. The first thing is a systemic phenomenon when insurance companies don't pay back in insurance cases. The people who are insured, by force and by force, are insuranceing their cars Kasco with full insurance when they bought a car. An insurance accident occurred. For example, I was approached by, for example, the inhabitants of Novgorod-Several Chernigiv district of Dubovets Sergey Ivanovich, the insurance company Kraina, and the court ruling that his car had been hit. The car's broken down completely, it's not paid off by insurance, and he's still paying for this car as a credit card. It's an emergency. We talked to Victor Suslov about this last night. There's two exits. Or disqualify such insurance companies immediately. Or, if the banks are not objectively counting the payments, at least open accounts in these banks where the insurance company is accounted for and accounted for in the name of these persons. I think we're also going to the Supreme Council Secretariat to prepare appropriate appeals and to take special control and prosecution of this issue. Thank you. The second question. This is the Pension Fund, which does not actually execute the courts. When pensioners apply for a pension, there are court decisions, they are not executed by the Pension Fund. The argument is, there's no money, so we won't pay. A formal excuse. The court decided to count it, we counted it. Seven hundred dollars, for example, amounted to three thousand. But there is no decision to pay such a pension. You know what's going on. Nonsense. The executive says, well done, there's a revaluation. Why aren't they paying? There is no court decision. The D.A. refuses to file a criminal case. Likewise, dear fellows, we will take control. Likewise, I appeal to the secretariat to prepare us for the Pension Fund. And as legislators, I think we're going to make some changes to the legislation so there's no such thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u192	Kseniya Mikhailovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u193	Thank you, Your Honor. Leapina Kseniya, group “For Ukraine!” The group “For Ukraine!” warns, honourable voters, Ukraine stands on the eve of a serious social explosion. First of all, I would like to say that today the three district councils – Lvivska, Ivano-Frankivska and Ternopilska – have agreed that they are strongly protesting the intentions of BUTU and the Party of Regions to make an anti-constitutional coup in Ukraine. Secondly, small, medium-sized business is under terrible pressure from the power structures and is also on the verge of a social explosion. This is confirmed by events in Hmelnick, which took place on Wednesday, and unfortunately have a serious continuation. Many of you on the ICTV channel could see a story from the hop market, where thousands of merchants who didn't give the employees an MBI, the government in the area of so-called economic crime took the goods away from a small entrepreneur. Everyone saw that the entrepreneur, the woman who had actually succumbed to this attack, had lost consciousness. The people opposed the OMON that these law - enforcement officers were one minute away from a serious beating they could have had. Thank God that entrepreneurs were smart enough not to assume that they were organized to resist illegal acts, but these actions have continued. The leader of the entrepreneurship movement in the Knietz Hmělnické Hope, who runs the market for the organization in question today, is pressured by law enforcement structures, and it is set up by a protocol. Is that a police state? I'm asking you to consider my speech a question of the MPs. I demand to deal with the situation that took place in the hop market on Wednesday. I demand that we deal with the situation on which the Department of Economic Crime is currently engaged throughout the country, and these departments do not know what they are doing. They're boys on call, they're called on to order some richer commercial structures, against others poorer. Today, small businesses suffer from them, and workers from some inadequate large corporations who cannot manage their corporations still find the opportunity to intimidate workers through law enforcement agencies. We don't have to do that in the country of law enforcement, we have to stop this pressure from law enforcement officials on civil matters. There can be no such level of criminalization and pressure as a result of threats from law enforcement structures, especially when people express outrage at the political and economic events that take place in the state. They have the right to be indignant. And we have to give them that right, and we have to ensure that we have a civilized consideration of any issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-05-m0.u194	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The next plenary meeting will begin at 10 a.m. At 4:00 a.m. on Tuesday, June 9. Good luck.
