ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u1	People's deputies please take their seats in the session room. People's deputies please register. [[Registration of Ukrainian National Deputies]] [[15:59:32]] There are 412 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening plenary session open. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Publishing Act is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 3443]] He will report to the First Deputy Head of the State Committee on Television and Radio.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u2	Thank you. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! An important component of the nation’s information space is the publishing industry, whose development contributes to meeting the information, cultural, educational, and professional needs of citizens, and to increasing the intellectual potential of Ukrainian society. Yes, the book remains the most reliable source of information. The book has a special function of spiritual creativity, a combination of private and global information dimensions, and a profound understanding of it. Today in Ukraine there is the Ukrainian Law on Publishing, adopted in 1997, whose standards are somewhat outdated and do not correspond to the realities of the present, need to be improved. In particular, the law would have to take into account the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on the Free System of Economic Activities, improve the procedure for issuing a permit document and its duplicate, establish a comprehensive list of grounds for repealing the permit document, finalize the provisions on the size of the registration assembly, clearly identify the registration authority, mandate and functions; refine the position on the output information of the publication; supplement the new provisions on the permit document with a certificate of incorporation of the publishing entity into the public register as a mandatory condition for carrying out activities in the publishing business; clarify the reasons for the suspension of activities in the publishing business; clarify the understandable apparatus. That is, changes to the law must be complex, resulting in the transformation of the publishing business in Ukraine into a sector capable of shaping the daily order in the cultural process and in social life. The legislative removal of a wide range of gaps in the publishing business will allow for the inclusion of both the public policy interests in the publishing business as a whole and the interests of each subject in the publishing business separately. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u3	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The account. Head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Yavorovsky Vladimir Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u4	Dear publishers, readers, authors! That law, which was passed in the 1990s, worked its time on the publishing business. Society has moved forward. A publishing business in Ukraine, in all our troubles, crises and so forth, whether or not it's quiet or quiet, it's evolving. And because of this, there was a need to modernize something today, to make certain clarifications, indeed, to modernize the Law on Publishing. It has, as it were, a technological side -- it's a comprehensible part of it, it's completely modern, which obviously doesn't cause any discussion among national MPs or in society. He has a number of basic money, apparently for which it can be discussed between the first and second readings of the bill. And there are things that can cause, let's say, some opposition. We discussed this on the committee. So let's say this is the absolute moment of support by the publishing state. I understand perfectly that there is a market relationship, that the main segment of the publishing business today is long privatized, it belongs to private structures, as it were. But I am convinced that the Ukrainian government and the Ukrainian state have no right to wash their hands from these processes. It raises a certain, meaning that some warnings and that the old version of the bill indicated that at least 50 percent of the books should be published, books should be published in Ukrainian. Here, in fact, this question is almost destroyed, or it's not very clearly reflected. Because of this committee, the Supreme Council has indeed done a number of very good things to improve the Ukrainian bookstore. You know, we've already voted with you, and we've given you a new carte blanche, and we've given you a new support period.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u5	Complete, please, Vladimir Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u6	A new stage of support, that is, provided a great deal of aid for the book - making industry. Because of this adoption of this law, the Ukrainian publishing work will become even more normal. The Committee on Culture and Spirituality asks you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u7	Let's sign up for a discussion. National Deputy Stishenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u8	Mikoli Volodymyrovich Tomenko, please pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u9	Dear colleagues, I wanted to draw your attention to the regulation of this bill. Because it seems that so many people and the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting, which this bill has put forward, think that we still have our backs in the states of publishing companies. I asked you about the documents of the last audit of the Audit Authority, and I want you to know that today we have the only state-owned stockholding unit Ukrudav polygraphia is a corporate state-owned enterprise that brings together 30 polygraph companies. According to a test by the CIA, in addition to using the target of 70 million dollars, the case is referred to the prosecutor’s office. So the KRU informs us that 28 state-owned companies of 30 in BTI are registered as private enterprises. So in fact, they go to the documents, where 100 percent is owned by the state, but they're essentially private enterprises. You know, it's our country that built everything, it's district enterprises that are powerful and so on, publishing. Why do I pay attention to this? Because an article in the sixth law, which is in force, stipulated that 51 percent of us are outside the state when we privatize this object. And now the law stipulates that it is deleted and written that this will be privatized in accordance with Ukrainian legislation. What legislation? God knows what kind of legislation that is. So I have two positions. The first position, of course, I think, and I would ask our committee of profile to pay attention to this test by the CRU, to see who privatized it. Or maybe when we don't have a head of the State Committee. Perhaps the Supreme Council should appoint him, choose him at last, that head of the Derteradio while he's gone. So as long as we're here, we're having political discussions. There was, all the state publishing companies had already moved into private property. And find a formula for how to act here, whether to return or in some other way. So I think we need to have another serious discussion on this bill. And once again, I say that in general, a new regulation or changes to the law should be made. But of course, it is necessary not to legalize what has been stolen, not to legalize it, but to put order in the publishing business, and only then to adopt the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u10	Matthew Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u11	Please pass the word to Gordienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u12	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues, respected polygraphists, and my special appeal to you, Anatoly Leonidovich! I would like to lead to the famous MPs and the people of Ukraine, polygraphists, which is the decision of the special commission of control on privatization concerning the actions of the leaders of this area, which refers to signs of theft and possession of state property, which entails criminal responsibility. The restructuring of the publishing system has now resulted in actual financial irregularities of 71.2 million dollars. This figure is confirmed by the audit and audit of the General Audit Authority. I'm asking you, Anatoly Leonidovich, and all those in the state, does the government's bill of publication against raiding protect them from being stolen and being owned? And how you personally react, as a civil servant, to the dispossessment of state property and what the real actions of your leader are. You're the one who's the structure, and you know that you've already got all the courts there that you might have won and today will be the criminal case for the civil servants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u13	Karpuk Vladimir Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u14	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine” MP group “For Ukraine”. Dear colleagues! There are very nice words in the note to this bill that the changes to publishing legislation should be of a complex nature, resulting in the day-to-day placement of the publishing business as an important factor in the cultural and social process. Is the bill in line with this task? Of course not. We know that since the issue of the Publishing Law it has been 97 years, it has been practically 12 years. The book of Ukraine, as it was, is in the corner. Because the number of books published in Ukrainian per inhabitant was 0.7-0.8 and never exceeded one book per inhabitant per year. Although our neighboring countries or European countries have many higher ranks. And it seemed that this bill should be in line with these high tasks, instead, that further steps were being taken to regulate and control the publishing business or to introduce more publishers into the state register. Consumer rights are narrowed down, violating part three of article 22 of the Ukrainian Constitution, that the adoption of laws or amendments to legislation should not restrict the rights and freedoms of citizens. Because just 29 parts of the Publishing Law are not recommended at all. Therefore, of these important ideological principles, important cultural principles, governmental principles, this bill does not meet the requirements of our time, will not contribute to the publication of the Ukrainian book. That's why I think it needs to be done, because just in the second reading, we can't regulate all of these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u15	The discussion is over. The draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Publishing is on the basis of the vote. [[16:12:14]] For-160. The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. For the reasons of the vote, the people's MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u16	The honourable chairman, the honourable colleagues, simply failed to pay attention to another circumstance, and Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko rightly noted that what had taken place as they had changed had been replaced more faithfully by the process of supporting the national Ukrainian book, which had been replaced by quite different concepts. But we didn't pay attention to article 5, when we discussed the issue of the Ukrainian book, and when we held parliamentary hearings in due time, we talked about the support of the Ukrainian book and we mentioned the term “Ukraine’s edition” and we replaced it in this project with a national edition that we solved all the problems. That's why I think it just needs to be reworked and radically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u17	A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Political Parties in Ukraine is being announced for consideration. I'm sorry! The chairman of the Committee proposes to put to the vote the proposal to re-read the draft Law. Proposal for a re-reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Publishing. [[Number 3443]] Puts the vote to the vote. [[16:14:05]] For 190 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Political Parties in Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 1467]] As reported by Oleg Alexandrovich Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u18	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! According to legislation, the programme is one of the basic documents of a political organization, even in the legal definition of the concept of “political party – unification of citizens of a national social development programme” – article 2 of the Law on political parties in Ukraine. In practice, however, political programs for individual parties only matter as a document necessary for registration, part two of article 11 of this law, not for activities as such. Thus, legislation has not created conditions for political parties to acquire one of their basic qualifications, i.e. the ideological basis for their activities. The same was true of the promises made during the electoral process. Yes, the pre-election program is mandatory when the voter registers, but the pre-election documents may not be implemented. [[paragraph 9 of the first article of the Ukrainian Law “On Elections of Ukrainian People’s Deputies”]] The lack of adherence to and confusion in political programmes by parties and blocs disorients the electorate during the vote and thus requires him to choose a political power at other secondary levels that does not contribute to the improvement of democracy, development and the party and political system in Ukraine. The implementation of the proposed bill will lead to a breach of the responsibility of political parties to implement their own programmes and pre-election promises. Thus, these organizations will be stimulated not only to report as such, but also to some extent to specify software and pre-election documents. I ask my colleagues to support this bill in the first reading, it is extremely simple but effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u19	Thank you. Please have a seat. A report from the Committee, Sergey Petrovich Podgorny, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u20	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government, commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, discussed at its meeting on 2 April 2008 the draft Law of Ukraine amending the Law on Political Parties in Ukraine, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Zarubinsky Oleg Alexanderovich. [[on party reporting for political and pre-election programmes]] [[Registration number 1467]] The bill proposes to amend article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on Political Parties in Ukraine and to establish that parliamentary parties, blocks report annually on the progress of party and pre-election programmes, and their reports are published in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine and the “Governmental Courier”. People’s deputies considered the findings of the bill that came to the committee. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy considers that the position provided for by the bill is not in line with the Constitution of Ukraine, which requires the bill to return the subject to the right of the legislative initiative without being considered at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with part one of article 89 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure. The Committee on Budget Affairs has decided that the bill has no impact on the income and expenditure of the budget or on its implementation during the current budget period. Thus, in the case of the adoption of a law, its standards may take effect from the date of publication. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the first reading of the bill should be rejected. Despite all this, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government concluded to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine when considering a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Political Parties in Ukraine in the first reading to adopt it as a basis. [[on party reporting for political and pre-election programmes]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u21	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u22	Members of the committee commented separately on the bill, supported the author’s idea and felt that it could be worked out in preparation for Parliament’s second reading. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u23	Dear colleagues, if there is a need for discussion, please sign up for the discussion. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. Yuri Miroshnichenko. Prepare Arieva.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u24	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. You know, as a national MP, I was very pleased to hear the drafter's speech. It's actually an exercise of our responsibility with you, not by general statements on the airs of direct or indirect, but by real steps, by our own accountability to our electorate. But today there is some hypocrisy. When we go to the elections, we make certain commitments in our programs, and when we start working, we forget about these commitments. Yes, indeed, it is sometimes uncomfortable to meet these obligations. Sometimes our obligations run counter to the obligations of our colleagues, who also become members of Parliament. And we need to reconcile these interests to some extent. But giving up on their implementation and not reporting to the electorate is in conflict with the Constitution. So it's surprising to me that certain committees are making such an assessment as the contradiction of the Constitution. The faction of the Party of the Regions will vote in favour of this bill. Of course, it can be improved, of course, perhaps complemented somewhere, but the fact that it must be approved as a law makes me think that it does not raise doubts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u25	National Deputy Ariev, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Adam Martinyuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u26	Dear colleagues, the responsibility of each of the political parties or blocs that went to the elections is extremely important. And I absolutely agree with the drafter of the bill, because to this day I would say that few political parties, as present today in the room, have something to go with and report sincerely to the electorate, because, God forbid, 10 percent of each party's program is executed. And I would like to make a report right now on how the largest faction represented today in Parliament is fulfilling the promise to take care of people. A report has just been received from Kharkiv Agency ATN that during Januković's visit to the factory in Kharkiv, he visited the “FED” factory, where the photographer died. I read: “Today I was in Kharkiv with a visit from the Party of the Regions leader Viktor Yanukovic. During his visit to the “FED” factory, there was an extraordinary opportunity. The picture of the plant became bad, and the speedy one was not allowed into the tower. The man's dead. The ambulance was not released into the enterprise territory. And the medics were running around the factory to help him. And the photographer of the Constantine Falcon factory died.” It happened a few hours ago. Accordingly, I would like the Secretary of the Supreme Council to present my delegation's address to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and to the Prosecutor's Office of the Kharkiv Region, requiring us to investigate this incident and to provide all necessary explanations as to what has happened in the plant's territory. And each of these parties and blocks that are represented in Parliament today will have to be held accountable for each person's life.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u27	Dear colleagues, in the faction of the Party of the Regions will be able to give your assessment, let's finish the consideration of this issue, shall we? Well, we're not going to stop the question right now. Well, please, let's still be speaking, let's finish. Dear colleagues, Alexander Sergiyovich! The speaker started talking about reporting to the party on the results of his election program, and he went on to do so. So I can't interrupt him in this regard, even though I would ask the people's deputies to speak solely on the subject. And now you're going to respond. Let's finish the discussion, and you'll respond. Please, Adam Martinyuk and then Vladimir Yavorowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u28	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Without a doubt, those of you who have the opportunity to meet with their electorates, and I must inform you that our faction, in particular, twice a month, when there are no sessions, is necessarily visiting some of the other regions of the state, holding such meetings that are of great interest, and will be pleased to support this bill of colleague Zarubinsky, who speaks of the need to report to the electorate. It's a very and very good idea, a very good idea, whose idea is that, in fact, voters need to know how they're doing. Although it may not necessarily be necessary to take away political party programs, the electorate does not choose us for political programs but rather leaves us with the election programs, the election promises, the election calls with which the political power went to the elections, the runaways, and the support they eventually received. There is no doubt about it, and it is necessary to do so, as it should at all be considered, to have universal control over the observance of political parties, as long as there is no personal responsibility of the national deputies behind the districts, the international control over the observance of the political parties of their pre-election promises, and perhaps not even the recall of one MP, but of the entire political party for such non-fulfilment. However, I would like to propose, in support of this bill in the first reading, that the author immediately withdraw the warning that the form of the report will be approved by the Ministry of Justice. Believe me, the Ministry of Justice will tell us this form of the report that we will not want to report with you. This is our business in which we're going to report, so please no form of the report approves, let's give one or two stripes in the paper, and what the political party will report is the law of the political party, not the Ministry of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u29	Vladimir Yavorowski, please. I would like to reiterate, my fellow Members, the fact that when a reduced procedure is recorded two in favour, two in favour, and others in favour, if a faction is not represented, after one minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u30	Well, if so, I'd like to welcome Oleg Zarubinsky with another of his legislative breakthroughs. In fact, we've already promised so many Ukrainian politicians to the people that, frankly, I sometimes think, in these presidential elections, what can people be promised? What you're going to do tomorrow is beautify, you've heard it. Which means we're there, so we're gonna make your life. - and they heard that. I feel as if I should turn to the people and say: “What more do you want to hear from us?Oh, my God! What else do you have to promise?” Because of that. The idea is a beautiful, venerable virtue of Zarubinsky, but for a moment I imagined how these reports would be. You can imagine this drum fight that will be fought over Ukraine when everyone talks about it, we did it, we did it, we did it, we did it. Absolutely. That's why I'm here. Dear colleague, I am absolutely. We're going to support this bill, but I think between the first and second readings, we need to think about what Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk said, we need to think about some effective commitment to make it effective. Otherwise it will be another election campaign where everyone will prove to the people that we are good. Those in power will be. tell us how much they have done, and those who are opposed will talk about how bad the power is. Therefore, we need to think about this very carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u31	Katerina Vaschuk, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u32	Katerina Vashuk, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues and distinguished voters! Indeed, there are no limits to perfection, and the law needs some refinements, refinements. And this will be done to the second reading. But what this law is going to be, is really a serious step forward in increasing the responsibility of every political force for carrying out the program with which it went to the voters of the electoral day. And the fact that we don't have major districts today, what the MPs in particular in the regions rarely know is a very big flaw. We all feel that way when we meet with voters. We, too, are the deputies of the Lithuanian Block, every month in the district -- and we feel how important it is for people not only to know the negative, but also the positive that is in the work of the Supreme Council, the individual political power that is.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u33	Please finish. We agreed for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u34	What laws have been passed and what a particular political power has done, how it has carried out its electoral program. This is very important, and I urge everyone to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u35	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. At the same time, by generalizing the discussion, I also agree with the proposal to remove the political party's programs if we're talking about the election. And secondly, to remove the condition that the Ministry of Justice approves the form of reporting, because then they will approve such a form of reporting that the political party will be removed from registration. And one more point: we need to prepare for the second reading, what is the mechanism for responding to reports from society, because otherwise people who can write well are going to go up in price. I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on Political Parties in Ukraine. [[on party reporting for political and pre-election programmes]] Registration number 1467. Please vote. [[16:30:51]] For 332 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party - 124, "Timoshenko Yuli Block" - 146, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" - 21, communists - 23, "Litvina Block" - 18. Dear colleagues, now a lineup, who will act? Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u36	Dear colleagues, let me be clear about the incident that took place in Kharkiv, which was very one - sided and prejudiced by colleague Ariev. In fact, in Kharkiv, at the FED company, the employee of this company, he got sick, he was brought to the health-care section of the Fed, where as a result of not receiving either aid or health care, he died. I would very much ask my respectable colleagues not to bring garbage from the market into the session hall, not to suck things out of the basket of the Internet that have not been verified by the facts. Let us put an end to the bad practice of accounting and politics. By the way, such performances and similar performances testify to the low level of political culture of those in the Supreme Council of Ukraine who spread all kinds of gossip and so forth. Let's stop this practice, it's shameful, it's not up to Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u37	Yes, thank you. The discussion is over. Dear colleagues, there's no line on the line. Well, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you to calm down. Allow me to provide information on the outcome of the meeting of the Conciliation Council of Ukraine. We voted. We voted 332. Dear colleagues, I'm taking you to your well-known decision of the Conciliation Council. The draft law amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine has been finalized. [[new editor]] A number of suggestions are included. You are given additions that are included. This is the order for consideration: a report from the Budget Committee and the first to vote will be a key proposal concerning the formula of direct transfers between the State budget and the budgets of villages, villages and cities of district importance. What is it? Today, as you know, the Supreme Council approves 700 budgets, and now, if this decision is to be made, it has to approve 12 thousand budgets, starting with villages and raising up. Thus, honourable colleagues, when a report is made, first of all, on this key issue in terms of the calculation of transfers, the direct relationship of interstate budgets, the budget and the direct budgets of villages, villages and cities of district importance, then each faction will be able to reason on this fundamental issue why it supports and does not support. Then we put this key position to the vote. If it is approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, taking into account those supplements, we shall put it to the vote for adoption in the final version of the Draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code. [[new editor]] Is there no objection? So please, from the Committee of Eugene Ivanovich Kirilchuk, the first deputy head of the Committee on Budget Affairs. And? This is how we follow the second reading. But we agreed, in view of the honourable colleagues that we've had this divergent position about the number of budgets, and in order to make it clear who's taking the responsibility in this regard, that each faction should, within three minutes, argue its position before voting this position. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u38	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, invited! For your consideration, the draft bill for amending the 2709 budget code is proposed for consideration in the second reading. I will say that budget reform has begun since 2001 with the adoption of the Budget Code that requires further development. The new budget code therefore lays down the legal framework and improves the programming and target method in the budgetary process, medium-term budgetary planning, strengthening the financial base of local self-government, applying modern debt management methods, improving the system of control and accountability for compliance with budgetary legislation. I would like to remind you that the vast majority of the bills adopted in the first reading contain the work of several governments, budget experts and scientists. Realizing that the Budget Code is a fundamental document for Ukraine's budgetary system, I stress that all factions of Parliament have been actively involved in the drafting of this document. During the drafting of the draft for the second reading, a thorough work was carried out with the participation of the Ministry of Finance experts, the consideration of proposals by the National Deputies, and the proposals of local self-government bodies, local executive bodies, their associations, the proposals of the scientific and financial institutions that came to the committee. A comparative table that gives you 603 proposals from legal entities, including only seven percent rejected, or 40,563 taken into account in part, or taken into account in another edition. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that all the proposals have been considered and analysed in terms of a comprehensive, systematic approach to budgetary regulation, rules, feasibility and practical application, both at the central level and at the local level and in a balanced budgetary system. In my view, the key position of the amended law is to significantly strengthen the income base of rural budgets, villages, cities, this is a tax resource of more than 10 billion, including for self-sustainment, the transfer of consolidation under budgets of villages, villages, cities in full terms of land pay, the additional resource of 450 million. Trade patent fee is $1 billion.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u39	So please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u40	The owners of transport equipment are another 800 million, pollution of the environment, which remains in local budgets -- another 250 million. 10 percent of the income tax on private enterprises is another 2.4 billion. The transfer of 15 percent of the income tax to the rural, rural and urban development budgets is another 1.6 billion. 100 percent of the income tax will be for local councils at their place of residence. And now the cost: maintaining socio-professional and socio-psychological rehabilitation of children, children with disabilities, local fire protection to compensate citizens for the provision of social services, will provide public funds for another 2 billion dollars. And let me emphasize, this is an additional resource of over 10 billion. At the same time, one important summary of the drafting of the bill is the presentation in the Final Positions of the Proposal for Amendments to Other Legislative Acts. This is aimed at eliminating differences and contradictions between budget and other legislation in part of the budget, as well as ensuring the effectiveness of legislative norms. In the drafting of a comparative table for the second reading of the bill, according to the Supreme Council Rules for the text of the bill, editorial regulations have been introduced in agreement with the department, with the experts of the General Legal Office. We worked hard here, almost all last week and 22 / 06. 09 made an additional decision, and you were given an additional comparative table that reconciles all legal claims and observations. I'd like to report that in the morning it was entrusted to the Conciliation Board of the Ministry of Finance, the Budget Committee to agree or agree on a number of observations that arose from the opposition to the document. Proposals agreed at the Conciliation Council meeting to clarify the final drafting of the Draft Law amending the Ukraine Budget Code, prepared for second reading. In particular, for the protocol, I ask that part five of article 14 be added to the second sentence of the following sentence: “A list of such operators is defined in the National Budget Act of Ukraine, the decision on the local budget.” Paragraph four of the Final Regulations on the redistribution of budgetary appointments by agreement with the Committee on Budgetary Questions should be deleted. In the first part of article 24, the words “social and political” should be deleted. In the second sentence of the first part of article 27, the words “should be included in the proposals for amendments to other laws of Ukraine” are replaced by the words “proposals are made”. Part two of article 39 should be replaced by part two, third and fourth of the following content: “The head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Issues reports on the responsibility of the draft State Budget Act of Ukraine to the requirements of the Code, the budgetary declaration and the recommendations of the Supreme Council on budgetary policy, adopted in accordance with article 33 of the Code. As a result of the discussion of the law, a reasoned decision on its rejection may be taken in the event that this Code of Budget Declaration and the Recommendations of the Supreme Council on Budgetary Policy adopted in accordance with article 33. In the event of a rejection of the State Budget project, according to Part Four of this article, the Cabinet of Ministers is obliged to resubmit the draft State Budget Act and the basis for the changes made within a week. The Minister of Finance represents the draft State Budget Act no later than three weeks later, three days later, I apologize, after its resubmission. In part four of article 52, in the paragraph “The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, with the participation of authorised representatives of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budgetary Questions”, replace the words “the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues with the participation of authorised representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers”. Paragraph three is deleted. In article 116, part one, paragraph 37, replace the words “this Code or the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine” with the words “the law”. In paragraphs 2 to 30 of paragraph 3 of the “Principal Provisions” to the Criminal Code, replace the words “the Ukrainian Budget Code or the National Budget Act” with “the law”. These are comments, proposals that were consistent with the opposition. But there is one fundamental question that Vladimir Mikhailovich was talking about, this is a list of amendments that relate to the calculation of transfers, the direct replacement of the relationship between the State budget and the direct budgets of villages, villages and cities of district importance. These include amendments 334, 348, 349, 350, 364, 392, 400, 406, 410, 436, 442, 446, 447, 525, 528, 535, 539, 552, 553, 555, 557, 578, 579, 581 and 591. These are the principles of the amendment for which you will vote separately. However, I am obliged to announce that, following consideration by the Committee on Budgetary Questions, I have adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the draft Law on amending the budget, budget code No. 2709, submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council of the Committee on Budget Issues and with additional proposals to it on second reading and in general as a law. I would like to remind you that when voting, it is necessary to take into account the position, the proposal by the committee and to entrust the Committee on Budgetary Questions, together with the relevant units of the Supreme Council's Office, when drafting the adopted bill, to separate two separate acts from its final provisions for amending other legislation and to prepare for signature by the Head of the Supreme Council. With regard to the final changes to our main document, the Rules, the Committee suggests that such a decision be taken and written down. Instruct the Rules Committee to consider a draft Supreme Council regulation amending the Rules of the Supreme Council on procedures related to the implementation of the budgetary process. It's after this law is passed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u41	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, we will now have to put to the vote these amendments that apply to the formula of calculation. But before we put these amendments to the vote, which in the event of a positive decision by the Supreme Council will open the way for the adoption of the final law. We agreed that every faction of us would take a stand on this issue, and then we would ask, let the Cabinet of Ministers also make a clear statement of the position of the Cabinet of Ministers, because it's about us adopting the budget, that is, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with the idea that there will be 12,000 budgets instead of the 700 budgets that are today. There are legitimate concerns about how this will work. So, Eugene Ivanovich, thank you. Every faction is about to take its place, and we're going to put these amendments to the vote. The question is no, it's a second reading. No questions asked. Dear colleagues, I'll inform you once again, the first table is all that's been done by the committee. The second table is based on the comments made to this table by the General Legal Authority. These proposals have been processed, and this is considered the only document. And finally. Just a minute. And finally, third. These are suggestions discussed at the Conciliation Council, processed and agreed upon by Kirilczuk Eugene Ivanovich, who entered the transcript. They were read because they were unable to distribute. I'll read it again before. So please sign up, honorary colleagues, from factions. Take out the national deputies who are registered on the information board. National Deputy Arzvetin, faction “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Xenia Leapina. Can I see you from the rostrum or will you be there? From where? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u42	Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that again today we have a complex order of decision-making on a very important issue that will determine the lives of thousands of local budgets for the future. We have an incomprehensible new tablet that we haven't gotten to know. We have hundreds of observations to the first table, very serious comments that say that the Constitution and the rights of local self-government are violated. We are not guaranteed that all these observations are qualified. We're definitely against 12 grand. Budgets were treated as individual units. Actually, there's a wagon in front of the steamboat. In addition, we are opposed to all social protection issues relying on local budgets. This means that one city will exercise its authority and some social standards will ensure, and the other, the village, will fail because it has no funds. And social standards, so it's completely different, like two different states. We think that this approach is unacceptable. We need to make a clear concept for the second reading. We suggest re-reading. Create a working group that reworks this concept because the concept of Kabmin's powers is 12,000. budget, it goes through all the changes to this code. One or two amendments cannot be deleted. We need to rework this document. It's a serious job. We don't do what we've done a dozen times. And then we go back and make changes, and we say the state can't live, the state can't work. And in this case, it's very dangerous at all, because we're actually taking a very high risk on the budget process. Then the local budgets will suffer. They can't get out, they need to work, they need to live, the village needs to be provided. So I want to pay attention, you can't treat the legislative process that way. We have to work hard, change the concept now, and carefully process this text with a new concept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u43	Jaroslav Suhi is referring the right to speak to Azarov Mikola Janovich, a faction of the Party of the Regions. Catherine Vaschuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u44	Dear Xenia Mikhaylovna! Don't worry about the village councils, all the heads of the village are happy to have the Cabinet's certificates. So they can all come to Kiev at any time, contact the Prime Minister and resolve their question. Second. They will be able to adjust all their budgets, recalculate them, and so on, together with Anatoli Ivanovich. That's right, it's a joke. So unfortunately, Ksenia Mikhailovna is completely useless in convincing the so-called majority of the communists who have joined them, who have long served the interests of BUTT. To convince them of the appropriateness of a measure. [[B in m in s a l in]] Our Supreme Council has completely discredited itself, Vladimir Mihajlovich, and is ready to accept anything without reading. None of them know what the substance of the amendments is, for example. [[B in m in s a l in]] Most of them! Don't, Oleg, don't. I'll be right there. Let's do the experiment for the sake of interest. Here sits Pavel the Silent. Yeah? Let's pick him up and ask him. 364 amendments to what? [[B in m in s a l in]] He doesn't know or answer. That is why the Supreme Council has completely discredited itself. Totally! Let's do it a few times. A few words, please, about the degree to which this purely electoral document has been worked out. Separate rules. Well, thank you, of course, that they listened to the soundest standards for manual budget management and were removed. Well, the common sense in the end and the desire to get through the most basic electoral rule has made it, in fact, to agree with common sense. But some of the interesting money that's still left, and it's these fateful amendments. Like what? For some reason, the long-awaited income tax on the place of residence was promised for 2011. I know why. Because before 2011, it will become obsolete, it only works as a promise. For some reason, the promise to apply a formula for the 12,000 budget since 2011 to those who have fewer than 401 people will also lose their relevance. Well, there are many other points to which attention could be drawn: the most important thing is that I pay attention, not to MPs, but to our many-suffering citizens in which the electoral experiments are conducted, and most importantly, no one will add anything to you except to turn on the printing press. This is about getting out of the district budgets.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u45	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u46	It's only about getting out of the district budgets, from the district budgets, and transferring. And if it's not enough, we'll print it. It is a good government that shows us all how to do without the budget, how to do without the work industry: to take loans, convert them into a bracelet, and distribute them. The second active mechanism is to include a printing press, to print money, and also to distribute. That's the point of this bill. Therefore, with the full importance of the Budget Code, with the understanding that 98 per cent of this Budget Code has been drawn up by us, but with such absolutely absurd norms, we cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u47	Thank you. Katerina Vaschuk, please. And there'll be a line at the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u48	Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies, distinguished radio listeners! Today, indeed, a very important document is being considered: changes to the Budget Code, which is very serious, I would say, even radical changes to the budgetary policy system in Ukraine. At least the fact that the transition from the budgets of the seven hundred to the twelve thousand is, of course, including all the rural councils, the city councils, the central points of Ukraine, is a very responsible step, the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance and, of course, the government today. It will be very difficult to coordinate the work of 12,000 budgets. I agree with previous speakers that there are a lot of shortcomings, weaknesses that contribute to the sum and tax system, because there are a lot of tax rules changing in the system of all inter-budget relations in Ukraine, in the system of monitoring implementation and changing budgets, local budgets, district budgets, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the State Budget. All of this is, but the government accepts responsibility, and today the government must remember that if there is an unmanaged budget and if instead of the rules promised to the heads of the village councils, they will form their own budgets and they will be far greater, much richer and allow them to carry out their duties in full. If instead the budgets in Western Ukraine don't have anything to fill, and in other budgeting areas they're going to be much stronger, and it's going to bring about some mismatch in the lives of our citizens, it's the responsibility of the government. Because today they are asking us to vote and accept such a budget. The faction will vote, support the government here just because this step is going to meet the rural communities of urban communities, give them more opportunities, make them more independent, independent of all major officials, and enable them to learn how to form local budgets. But the government has a lot of answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u49	Yes, thank you. Oleg Lazko. Ivan Kirilenko, BUT faction. Alla Alexandrovska will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u50	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! I refer to the Hall, to those deputies who were elected on the first call: honourable colleagues, remember what law was passed in the Hall in the number one, or perhaps number one. Whoever doesn't remember, I'll remind you, "The priority of rural social development and agriculture in the economy of Ukraine" 1990. No market economy, we didn't have any of the things that happened today, privatization and so on. 33 percent of the State budget went solely to support the village and agriculture, 33 percent. The 1990 budget and the 2009 budget are not comparable. And then the MPs passed this law under the slogan “The Village Dies! ” In 17 years this slogan in this room has sounded thousands of times. Both the vibrations of voice and tone and decibels were especially intense when the election campaign was under way. And zero on the way out, except for the slogans. Dear colleagues, for the first time in years of independence, an attempt has been made to return to the village because the borders between the city and the village have been wiped out all these decades. The gap between the city and the village is huge. So the 10 billion that are then budgeted after the adoption of this budget code is the first step towards actually saving the village. On May 23, exactly a month ago, for the first time in history, the government brought together more than 10,000 rural leaders who care for 70 percent of the territory and more than a third of the population. I'm sorry for the Russianism, the impression that it's embarrassing, it's unjust, there's nothing in your hands, there's only one responsibility. Everyone for subsidies, subsidies, grants. Improper is one formula for what we've heard. And it was very sad to hear such a thing. For us, as one of the speakers of the country mentioned, we are remembered by both MPs, and political leaders, when the elections come, though to the heart of them, as they love the village. We promised, we went and we forgot. Dear friends! Vladimir Mikhailovich spoke for the political responsibility of those who would vote in the hall. We absolutely support that. And we're not just supporting, we're asking for a vote, we might not have to vote, we might have to publish a list of those who voted in favour of this project. At the end of the day, how much can we shake, tell us that the formulas change everything else, and when do we get back to the village, colleagues? The first attempt to do that, let's do it with courage, but at least a little bit of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u51	Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u52	Dear colleagues! The new edition of the Budget Code, unfortunately, does not solve all the problems of the Budget process in Ukraine and that is understandable to everyone. The basic principle of budgeting at local community levels, as was the case, remains the formula for the calculation of transfers. This concerns primarily the financing of education and health, which concerns me first. The ideal version of the Budget Code would be to establish approaches to the calculation of local budgets that would make it possible to more effectively assess the needs of local communities and ensure them. Unfortunately, however, this version of the Budget Code has received support from local governments and we have no right not to consider it. The most correct criterion of theory, as is known, is practice. We must be prepared to make proposals from local councils when they actually see what they supported in theory. It should certainly be welcomed that the local grass-roots councils have reached and heard their voices. However, it should be noted that the Budget Code does not address the problem of budgeting and the elimination of budget deficits. How to fill the income part and implement the expenditure budget in a timely manner is the main problem of the Government, which cannot be resolved by the Budget Code. The extra resource that pays for the land, is that normal? Land payments are an additional resource to fill the budget, so why should we all live with you? 10 per cent of the profit tax, the market charge, because these additional reserves will occur when Ukraine's economy develops. Therefore, the primary responsibility for the situation in Ukraine and the implementation of the budget under the Code rests with the Government and the executive bodies on the ground. The problem of the division of bear skin is important, but it is more important to get the skin. Regrettably, I can say that many of my amendments have not been taken into account, which concerned that the contingency fund should be used on assignment rather than freely used as anyone would like. My amendment that credits should not be used to cover current costs is not taken into account. These serious issues are not taken into account in the consideration of the Budget Code, and I think we will see that coming. As for some of the previous statements, it's very bad that someone here in this room was brought up with such a rotten brace that someone was serving someone. Which prevents the Party of the Regions from actually taking control of the budget committee, because it is the largest faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You don't want to work and hide from real responsibility, take responsibility, by quota, your budget committee can be controlled, and you don't want to do that. Therefore, do not seek, forgive, the extreme, take responsibility, including for what is happening in the Supreme Council and for yourself. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u53	Dear colleagues, please, Merkovsky Anatoly Ivanovich. That's what's gonna happen now, I asked. Dear colleagues, we'll be able to exchange lines. Merkovsky Anatoly Ivanovich. I ask you to listen carefully to the official position of the government as the message of the TARS. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u54	Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national deputies, Ministry of Finance, together with the Budget Committee on this bill, which was submitted to the Supreme Council and adopted on first reading, has been working for almost a year because it was registered last year on 02.07. 08. We held a number of serious conferences, joint meetings with all branches of government and, in general, the results of the two votes of the budget committee that took place last night, the Ministry of Finance and the Government supports the proposed revision of the budget code. In addition, today we have worked with the Committee of Budgets on the proposals of the Party of Regions for this bill, which were read for the transcript by the first deputy head of the Committee of Budgets and also the government supports these proposals. With regard to technology, I would like to say that today we have worked on models and formulas for determining inter-budget transfers to 700 subjects of government budget relations. There is a government decision that determines how the budgets of villages, villages, and cities of district importance are formed, that is, a simple decision that is applied by district government administrations. Our principle is that we propose for 2010 all of these decisions to unite and apply a unified mechanism for resolving inter-budget relations for all budgets and villages and villages, and cities of regional significance or regional importance, which is that we will build relations directly with the State budget, i.e. the recalculation of inter-budget transfers, will be carried out by a decision taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The government will develop such proposals in the draft Budget Act, there will be parliamentary hearings, there will be budgetary committee meetings, there will be procedures that are absolutely transparent, and there will be final decisions on the extent of the budget transfer to the village budget, or the village, or the city of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So the Ministry of Finance doesn't seem to have any threat to us that we have budgets for 2010 that are going to be balanced, or that we don't have adequate financial resources, because the Budget Code provides for a number of buffers that will guarantee 100 percent of the revenue that is included in the budget transfers. I would like to say that the general resource, according to our estimates in the 2009 budget, which will be transferred from the centre of the territory to the regional budgets, is 10.3 billion dollars. There's relevant information, and I don't want to count these extra questions. So our proposal is to support the conclusions of the budget committee and what has been announced in the transcript by the rapporteur on the amendments to the budget code and to vote on these changes in general. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u55	Please, Peter Simonenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u56	Dear colleagues! Simonenko's Communist faction. I am in response to the statement by Nikolai Janović Azarov on the position of the faction. I would like to make it clear to Nikolai Janović when he was repeatedly suffocating, as Chairman of the Budget Committee, the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, in one vote, three readings, in whose interest you were then extending budgets? In whose interests did you do it when you came and headed this section of work and reduced the minimum living minimum to 205 bracelets? In whose interest were you then acting? I ask you, distinguished colleagues of the faction of the Regions, you are ultimately responsible for your actions, and the faction of the Company has never served any or any other oligarchs, and it will not. The question is, in principle, that we are now witnessing a failed fiscal policy for the years of independence. Every year, whatever the Governments of the oligarchs are, the budget is getting worse and worse. That is why it is necessary today to radically change the situation and allow the territorial communities to control the formation of this budget and to be responsible for its use for the benefit of citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u57	Alexander Lavrinovich, please. No, that's how the lines were exchanged. Alexander Lavrinovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u58	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to two circumstances right now when we consider this very important draft law. Condition one. Today we're going to have the first know-how, if this is done, when we adopt a very responsible legislative act, we're going to consider a comparative table and a proposal that I'm highly respected by the Chief Legal Authority. There are, in fact, very high-level professionals working there, who are extremely productive and helpful to national MPs, parliamentary committees. But that their proposals as the subject of the legislative initiative should not be put to the vote by any other parliament in the world, nor has the Supreme Council. So this supplementary table, I think it's going to be a gesture that shows that the Supreme Council itself does not respect only parliamentary procedures, but rather respects the Basic Law of its country if this is done. The second circumstance that I want to pay attention to. With all the persuasiveness and suggestions to be published, this will have to be done. I want us to be clear about what we're talking about and what we've been talking about to get the village councils to answer. It's a very simple thing. Not to give anyone any rights, but to take away the right of local self-government of district councils, to withdraw the right to approve budgets for formal approach in rural councils, and to do so in the Supreme Council for the submission of the Cabinet of Ministers. This real limitation of the rights of local self-government is provided by 142 articles of the Constitution. And here the villagers will depend, not on the elected deputies of the local councils, but on the important government officials of the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance. Just to be clear, clear and clear. As the distinguished faction leader put it, it is clear that we want to support this approach. I am not saying that we need to work with such important documents in the second reading to deal with all the proposals of the legislators themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u59	Thank you. Please, Alexander Ephraim. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u60	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. You know, I hate to hear about the messes that come in the hall, but I can't let go of the insults that my friends and our comrades and Parliamentary colleagues are causing. Peter Nikolaevich spoke very loudly, very emotionally and very much. This suggests that the conscience is unclean and that it is wrong. Petra Nikolaevich applauded the left side of the hall, and this encourages us. I'm ashamed that this is how voters' interests are handed over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u61	Dear colleagues! So, we're gonna go on charges now? Please, we've discussed everything, you've spoken. Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u62	Dear colleagues, well, that's already, I'm not going to answer to the speaker. He just came up to me and asked me to, say, let's not, we'll just say we're gonna stay calm and so on. Well, you're asking for one, and you're saying another. Well, at least follow through.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u63	Dear colleagues, Mikola Janović, please microphone. Calm down, dear fellows. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u64	Vladimir Mihajlovich, Evgeny Ivanovic, when reading for the protocol, missed one paragraph in the document, which was distributed in the agreed final resolution room. I just want this to be in the protocol, let me read out the paragraph on page two: “In case of acceptance of the project.” [[follow-up]] This paragraph was omitted. Second.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u65	Please read it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u66	I can read it, then add time. “In the event of the adoption of the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine, following its resubmission of the deadline for the preparation of this bill, the first and second readings are increased by five calendar days.” It's in the agreed text, he's just in a hurry, I guess, and he missed. Finally, what we agreed: "This law takes effect from 1 January 2010." That is, without the words “from the day it is published and applied, starting with.”
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u67	The point is that we ruled out and didn't read Eugene Ivanovich because there's a table that's been edited since January 1, 2010. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, since we have a speech here, to also briefly sum up the draft. First of all, with regard to the performances here, it was said that the Supreme Council of Ukraine had completely discredited itself. Clearly, the Supreme Council cannot discredit itself is being discredited. That's the first one. The other one. I would ask honourable fellow MPs to go to work and heads of committees to go to work and make a timely proposal to the document. The document was handed out on June 2 this year, not at the last moment when the amendment was no longer accepted. And let's stop this mutual destruction. It doesn't make people feel any better. The other one. It is quite clear that we should pay attention to our colleague Alla Alexandrowski’s offer. And the point was that we share what's left over, not talk about how to fill the budget. And unfortunately, our conversation was about pulling the rope. The positive thing is that we're going to go 12 grand. budgets are, but we need to see if they predominate the negative moments that are also present and that are much talked about. But let's say that we didn't talk about people's needs, but we talked about one thing: who's going to be in the presidential election to have support among a category of local self-government. It is quite clear that one part that has support in the face of the heads of district councils, district councils, key territories, requires leaving things the way they were, and another part appeals to the village and village councils to recommit support before the elections. And that's true, which we should all be talking about, not applauding each other on the charge of each other. But let's see what's left of people. Thus, the Cabinet of Ministers declared that he was personally responsible for the implementation of the budget. So let's get out of what will be announced and the position of the Cabinet of Ministers and the deputies who voted, because there are huge threats that will not work out in the new year. But let's work to probably soften the negative that people can expect. In this regard, if we do not have other warnings, I will put to the vote as we suggested. First. Supports the formulation of transfers, direct relations between the State budget and the direct budgets of villages, villages and cities of district importance. This is mentioned in the amendments that were read by Eugene Ivanovich. So I'm going to put this proposal to the vote. If it is supported, it means that we can put to the vote the adoption of the draft law as a whole. Right? Therefore, first, the proposal to support the formulation of transfers, the direct relationship between the State budget and the direct budgets of villages, villages and cities of district importance, i.e. the existence of 12,000 budgets in substance. Please vote. [[17:20:43]] For 239. Decision taken. Alla Alexandrovska. Decision taken. Just a minute. Alla Alexandrovska, then colleague of Pecklusenko. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u68	Yeah, yeah. It's all there. Dear colleagues, Vladimir Mihajlovich! I'm actually talking to the voters to hear us. You have spoken a phrase that can be understood in ambiguous ways. What is it? The formal approach -- I mentioned it -- was in the past budget code, the formula -- it remained in this, in itself, a formula. The issue in the Budget Code is only resolved in what way: what part of the budget received from the income tax is from the land, from the market, which part remains on the ground. Regrettably, in itself, the formula -- it is not defined by the Budget Code at all, in itself a formula -- is determined by the Government's decision. And the perfect law, in fact, is a law that defines everything so that there's no elevator and there's no desire to do anything else. Regrettably, in itself, the formula was and remains in the budget code. That's why I said: we share the skin of an unkilled bear, and, frankly, no matter how we divide it, it's not going to be enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u69	Thank you for your clarification, thank you for your clarification. Pussy, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u70	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! This budget code is a collective work product, and it deserves 95 per cent attention, but with the Government's rules, it becomes, as Vladimir Mihajlovich Litwin said correctly, it becomes an electoral instrument: everywhere the word “election”. You have to understand that Kiev will have 12,000 budgets to get its money. We are all in favour of budgetary freedom for the regions. But freedom without money is like water without oxygen: there's only one hydrogen left. The budget code, as amended, is therefore a hydrogen bomb. And we won't be taking part in her trial.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Since support for the key issue that has been debated in the Supreme Council, I will put to the vote on adoption in the second reading, as a whole, as a bill of law amending the Code of Budgets, registration number 2709, taking into account the basic table, the table that was agreed upon on the basis of the observations of the legal administration, and also taking into account those agreed positions that Eugene Ivanovich read and on which clarifications were made by Azarov Mikola Janović. [[new editor]] In view of this, I am voting on the adoption of the document in the second reading and generally as a law. Registration number 2709. Please vote. [[17:24:25]] For 232 The law is passed. [[Applause]] The factions, please. Region Party - 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 153, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense - 33, Communist faction - 27, Litvina Block - 19, non-fractional - 0. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Auditing Activities, registration number 3662, is being introduced. [[on the improvement of individual positions]] Please vote. Oh, I'm sorry. 3662, National Deputy of Ukraine Vladimir Filipenko, co-rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Policy Billous Irina Anatoliyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u72	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, the bill proposed for your consideration is being submitted with the aim of improving the specific provisions of the Ukrainian Act on Auditing Activities. [[Registration number 3662]] In order to correct the technical error in the text of the current law, which leads to the complexity of its implementation, and with a view to bringing the provisions of the Ukrainian Act on Auditing Activities into line with the Act on State Securities Regulation, the “On Securities and Stock Markets” and the “On Economic Associations”. The project is complemented by article 8, part 1, paragraph 3, of the Ukrainian Act on Auditing Activities with the aim of eliminating technical error, which combines and distorts the content of two different procedures in the market for securities, namely, in the issuance of securities and in the licensing of professional participants in the stock market. Financial reporting audits are required for issuers of securities. In addition, financial reporting is also mandatory when licensing professional participants in the stock market for the purpose of reducing financial risks in the securities market. Licenses are generally not issuers of securities, and, on the contrary, issuers of securities in their majority are not professional participants. However, on the basis of the provisions of paragraph 3 of the first part of the Ukrainian Act on Auditing Activities, it is possible to conclude that the audit is mandatory not only for issuers of securities, but only if they are licensed as professional participants. In this context, it is proposed to extend the scope of the audit, paragraph 3 of part 1 of article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on Auditing Activities, to introduce a new edition and to establish that auditing is mandatory for issuers of securities and derivatives, and to obtain licences for professional activities in the securities market. The adoption of this act will ensure that effective legislation is brought into line with the Ukrainian Securities and Stock Market Act, help to remove gaps and correct technical errors of the Ukrainian Auditorship Act. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u73	Thank you. Irina Anatolyevna Billousov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u74	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Economic Policy considered at its meeting on 3 June the bill proposed by Vladimir Filipenko. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council Office supports the bill for adoption on first reading, taking into account the comments and proposals made. Noting the need to improve the provisions of the existing law, which will lead to the elimination of inaccuracies in wording that lead to confusion, the interpretation of two different procedures is in the very issue of securities and in the licensing of activities. The Committee therefore agreed to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Act on Audit Activities, which was submitted by MP Filipenko on first reading. I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u75	Dear colleagues! No warning? May I put it to a vote? It's okay, isn't it? I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of draft Act No. 3662 amending the Ukrainian Act on Auditing. [[on the improvement of individual positions]] Please vote. [[17:28:59]] For 302 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! It is proposed that you consider the draft Act amending article 36 of the Ukrainian Law on the National Compulsory Pension Insurance for the Protection of Children, which is taught in general and secondary education institutions in connection with the loss of a caregiver. [[Registration number 2597]] Rapporteur: National Deputy of Ukraine Suhi Jaroslav Mikhajlovich, co-rapporteur of the Subcommittee, Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Kulczynski Mikola Georgievic. And the evening session continues until 18.15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u76	Dear colleagues, Bill 2597 was written in early 2008 in response to a number of letters from citizens who came to the Ukrainian National Deputies and called our attention to social injustices in relation to orphans and violations of article 46 of the Ukrainian Constitution. This is one of the letters of Laznuk Katerina, the city of Canov, 206th Division Street. Such facts as she describes have indeed taken place during the implementation of article 36 of the National Pension Insurance Act regarding the granting of a pension in connection with the loss of a breadwinner. The point is, in accordance with article 36, paragraph 2, children who are orphaned have the right to financial assistance when they reach the age of 20, if they are in college. And unfortunately, it happened that orphans who are 18 years old when they're in school and they're in school, they're out of help. Although they will receive such assistance by the time they graduate from school and enter the university, they will receive such assistance by the age of 23. This happened because in Ukraine after the 2003 law, 12-year-olds were taught in schools and depending on the enrolment of a student in school at six or seven years of age, seniors are not 16-17 years old when you and I went to school, but 18 and 19, colleagues, it's just a senior class, it's the age when an orphan girl or an orphan boy needs the money he's talking about. We can't leave behind any of this without the protection of orphans who have received such a pension in connection with the loss of a breadwinner and continue to learn after 18 years. It's about money right now. An orphan child legally has 50 percent of the pension her father received. On July 16, 2008, the government instituted, God’s health, the smallest pension payment for the death of a parent is 544 bracelets. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u77	Finish up, Jaroslav Mikhajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u78	Colleagues! It's about, like, 5,000 high school kids who are now in school. Two, three, four, five months are taken away and you forgive me, I never do, but here I am reading this woman's letter, a former teacher: “You can protect such children by making an amendment so that our future is protected not only by retired grandmothers but also by the state. If the committee agrees, and here is a comment by the Scientific and Expert Office to take the words "and others," if the committee agrees, then I would like to accept this bill as a whole. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u79	Jaroslav Mikhailovich! Obviously, we have to write "entered into action since 1 January 2010" in view of the fact that it has not been considered for a long time. And then, with that in mind, we can ask the Supreme Council to support him. Please take the seat of the committee. Mikola Georgievich Kulczynski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u80	Mikola Kulczynski MP group “For Ukraine”. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The law is very simple, but it's very important, because it's a social protection function for schoolchildren. The drafter of the bill that I spoke with agrees to exclude the word “other” because the Education Act defines other secondary educational institutions as additional institutions of non-school education. So the committee proposes to accept it as a basis in the first reading, but if, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, if we exclude the words from the comparative table “and others”, it can be accepted in general and put into effect on 1 January 2010. So in order for us to vote in general, I propose that we exclude “and others” and simply write: “in the general educational institutions of the general secondary education system”. Why is it secondary education, the reporter explained. Because now 12 years of schooling, children are 18 years old, they have to go to college, and they're still in school. And that's not what the previous draft of the law provides. Please, taking into account such wishes, vote on the basis and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you could agree to this proposal: take the basis and then remove the "and others" and fix it from 1 January 2010 and make a decision. No warning? So I'm voting on the proposal for adoption as the basis of the draft law. [[Registration number 2597]] Please vote on the basis. [[17:34:51]] For 343 Considered the basis. Dear colleagues, it is proposed that “and others” be removed and noted that this law has been in force since 1 January 2010. Please, Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u82	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, it's a good offer. But we're writing high school. Does it count if we throw others away? Vocational and technical schools that often go to after part-time secondary education and technology? Because those kids are coming in after 8th grade. So we don't leave them out of this. Medium-sized schools for everyone to take into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u83	I quote. That's where the general educational institutions of the general secondary education system, as well as vocational and technical institutions, are being offered. So it's all taken into account, dear colleagues, Catherine Timofievna. Well, please. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u84	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in paragraph 2 of the concluding clauses we write: “The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine during the month from the date of taking effect by this law”. We're still on for assignment. So it's automatically not going to work on January 1st. Because we only give after commission. How can we get out of this position? It's very simple. Similarly, only the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for a month from the date of publication of this law. That's it. That's my offer. And I think those who were against it now realized that they should take it that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u85	Dear colleagues, that's right. Because he won't be able to enter, he'll act if we don't write that down. That's right. Valeriy Suškevitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u86	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I fully support the decision of the Committee and the People's Deputy Dry in this, what touches the substance of the bill. But two words, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! I want to draw attention to some of the dissension of our work on many drafts. We adopted a standard in an educational bill that affects other positions, and we didn't consider it to be a solution, by the way, a problem for children with disabilities and orphans. I would like to see the issue of the permanence of education or of the other direction of the committee considered in terms of what we need to change the Rules and think about the two committees of profile. Otherwise we're constantly confronted with the same problem, and one of the profiling committees is making a problem then, essentially, for other bills. Please support, as head of the committee, this law, taking into account the amendments that I have mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u87	Dear colleagues, this is an observation and a recommendation, I think we should take to the familiar and unwavering implementation. Taking into account the proposal, namely, removing the words "and others," what the law. What is it? Come on, I'll say it. Dear colleagues, I'll finish my sentence. Taking into account the proposal to delete the words “and others” this law takes effect from 1 January 2010. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is proposed to be put to the vote on second reading and in general as a law within a month of the date of publication of the law. [[continue by text]] Matvičik Vladimir Makarovich, Cabinet of Ministers, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u88	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable national deputies, this bill refers to a very small number of children who are over 18 years of age in the tenth grade. So you could just vote, from the day this law was published and not be passed on to a later date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u89	Dear colleagues, well that's one of those infrequent propositions for us, we're in the same position. So let's say that this law takes effect from the day it was published, and the Cabinet of Ministers, over here, for a month, bring it into line and everything. No warning? Taking into account these amendments, which are supported, I am voting on the adoption of the draft law in second reading and generally as a law. [[Registration number 2597]] Please vote. [[17:39:49]] For 344 The law is passed. [[Applause]] The draft Law on debt reduction to the Pension Fund of Ukraine of enterprises of strategic importance and to industrial enterprises and the restoration of the pension rights of their employees is submitted for consideration. [[Registration number 4218]] Rapporteur – Ukrainian national deputy Valerij Suškević, co-rapporteur – head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons of Kulczynski Mikola Georgievic. Please, the microphone of our colleague Suškević.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u90	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, which I have developed and introduced together with my distinguished colleague Vassil Harrah, this bill has two aspects. The first is economic: to increase the financial capacity of enterprises that are strategically important for the economy and security of the state in times of economic crisis. And the second aspect is social: to address the problem of taking into account periods of insurance and wages for the purpose of assigning pensions to employees of these borrowers. It is worth noting that today the debt in the first aspect of the economic aspect of the debt owed by debtors to the pension fund is almost a billion 300 million dollars, and fines and pennies are more than half a billion dollars. As far as the social dimension is concerned, dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that all the employees employed in these enterprises do not qualify for retirement. Or should you explain that under such conditions our citizens do not simply lose their pension insurance, in fact, without pensions. Thus, the bill proposes to upset 60 calendar days after debt to borrowers who are in debt on 1 March 2009. And it's also offered at the request of the borrowers' schedule of fines and pennies that they also have on March 1, 2009 for 60 days. In addition, the bill provides for the write-off of coal-based enterprises in the amount of fines and pennies imposed on them for untimely payments, and in general, I want to say that coal-based enterprises have the highest debt of about 1 billion dollars. In fact, this anti-crisis pension law, which does three specific things. First of all, he saves and helps the borrower's business.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u91	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u92	The other one. It opens up the possibility of paying the current pension payments of borrowers to the Pension Fund, which also has a huge social dimension. And the third. Of course, he renews the employee’s pension insurance in these debtor companies. Please support this extremely important anti-crisis bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u93	Mikola Georgievich Kulczynski, please. The committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u94	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons considered the draft Law on the Reduction of Debt to the Pension Fund of Ukrainian Enterprises, which is of strategic importance: for industrial enterprises and industrial enterprises – and the restoration of the pension rights of their employees, submitted by Ukrainian National Deputies Suškević and Hara. And he recommends that the first reading be based on it. The bill is designed to resolve the issue of repayment of debts to the Pension Fund of Ukraine and write down fines and pennies in order to maintain the right of workers to adequate levels of pension insurance and to prevent the deterioration of the financial situation of these enterprises. The Committee and the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine point out that the principles, principles and mechanisms for the functioning of the public compulsory state pension insurance system are defined by the Ukrainian Act “On the mandatory public pension insurance”. This also applies to the order of calculation and payment of insurance premiums and repayment of debts to the Pension Fund. As a result, changes in the terms and conditions of the mandatory state pension policy must be made solely by making changes to this law. In addition, article 5, paragraph 2, of the project defines the procedure for the write-off of fines and pennies to coal companies. In this connection, it is also appropriate to amend the Ukrainian legislation on measures aimed at ensuring the continued operation of fuel-energy enterprises, which determines a set of organisational and economic measures aimed at ensuring the continued operation of fuel-energy enterprises. The Ministry of Law and Social Policy of Ukraine, the Pension Fund of Ukraine, does not object to the proposed standards. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that, as a result of the first reading of the law, the bill can be adopted as a basis. I also propose to take as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u95	Dear colleagues, what will be their reasoning? Can we put him to a vote for acceptance as a basis? Discussion? Please sign up. It's a recording. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. National MP Gordienko, Communist faction. Petra Zibanko's handing it over, isn't he? Peter Cibenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u96	The Communist faction. Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, you know, the law is kind of good and not bad especially for the sphere of application for which it actually appears. In it, interested enterprises that have allowed a certain amount of debt to be owed to the Pension Fund, although they would rather not allow it, have this debt. In the adoption of this law, interested workers in those enterprises that work in the field of activity, because in this way, the way they adopt this law is reinstated because it is known that during periods when contributions to the Pension Fund are not counted, there is no employment. But there are some doubts that I would like to share with you, because the point is that if you take a closer look at this situation, there's a little bit of a loss from this situation, and the Pension Fund as a whole, and right now, in the crisis period, and they're losing other pensioners who don't work on these enterprises, because it's about what's going on with the debt restructuring for 60 months. This means that today, when the pension fund needs the most budget, these costs will not come or come in much smaller than they could have been. And secondly, it's about partial debt write-off. So I think that maybe we could all look together today for mechanisms to return these debts to the Pension Fund's budget without restructuring them, these debts, not cheating anymore. After all, under certain conditions almost half of the debt before the Pension Fund budget is paid off. So the faction of the Company of Ukraine insists that we look for mechanisms, how to repay the debt completely without restructuring it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u97	Or perhaps when we make such a decision, respected colleagues will determine who we are going to cheat on. If there is a state - owned enterprise, would that be obvious? So that it wouldn't really go there in general, so that it wouldn't go there. Dear colleagues! The bill's discussion is over, the committee's proposal to accept it as a basis, I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt on the basis of draft law, registration number 4218, a reduction in the debt owed to the Pension Fund of Ukraine, enterprises of strategic importance and economic interest, and the restoration of the pension rights of their employees. Please vote. [[17:48:38]] For-300 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 109, "Litvina Block" – 147, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 25, communists – 0, "Litvina Block" – 19, non-fractional – 0. Dear colleagues! With regard to the draft Energy Audit Act, the committee requests that it be postponed in view of the need for clarifications. Is there no objection? There's an appropriate appeal to the committee, there's an appropriate committee decision. Thank you. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending articles 167 and 186 of the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine. [[on the referral of a court decision and the calculation of the deadlines for filing an application for an appeal]] [[Registration number 1089]] Rapporteur - Ukrainian National Deputy Yuri Romanovich Miroshnichenko, co-rapporteur of the Committee on Justice, Bondik Valerij Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u98	Dear voters, distinguished colleagues, Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. As the author of the bill, I propose to settle one very important issue, since the initiative itself stemmed from practice. When those involved in the administrative proceedings do not receive an invitation to a sitting, a court decision or an objective decision, they cannot challenge the decision in the appeal order because they do not have the decision or the decision of the court. I don't want to blame the court system because there's a certain conflict in the law. And I suggest you just settle that question. In what way? If today the parties or parties in the process are able to obtain this decision directly at the time of its announcement, or during the period following its announcement, those who have not taken part in the announcement will be sent these decisions and sometimes they will receive them after the deadline for the appeal. What does this bill propose? First. To put in place practices for those who did not participate in the meeting, to send them these decisions with recommended messages, that is, to really get them, and then I'll tell them about it. And the second question is to calculate the terms of the appeal since this decision was given, this decision. There is support from both the committee and the Executive Office, and from the Supreme Administrative and Supreme Court for expulsion.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u99	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u100	Except for one moment that this will cost extra money to send these letters. I am absolutely convinced that this is a small cost, little is said in the letter of the Supreme Court, that the letters recommended are and are applied as a result of instructions, so there will be no harm if we put this in the law. But as a compromise, you can introduce this law from January 1st, 2010. And in this way, just predict it in court costs, and so adopt this law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u101	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dmitry Mikitovich from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u102	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Justice considered the draft Act submitted by the National MP of Ukraine to amend articles 167 and 186 of the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine, which aims to ensure the right of appeal of the decision of the administrative court to persons taking part in the case, but who were not present at the court during the declaration of the decision and recommends that it be accepted as a basis. [[on the referral of a court decision and the calculation of the deadlines for filing an application for an appeal]] Yuri Romanovich explained in great detail the need for his acceptance. I would also like to add that these are absolutely pragmatic changes that will allow for the right of those who could not, for some reason, participate in the meeting. Therefore, the committee unanimously voted in favour of it and recommends and requests the Supreme Council to receive it in its first reading. It would be possible to accept it in general. But the Supreme Court and the Supreme Administrative Court, and the administration, well, it, so to speak, has some kind of proposal that would be better regulated in the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u103	Thank you. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss the bill? Then I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt on the basis of draft law, registration number 1089 “On amending articles 167 and 186 of the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine concerning the referral of a court decision and the calculation of the terms of the application for appeal. Please vote. [[17:54:58]] For 306 Decision taken. There was a proposal to approve the project as a whole. With one suggestion that this law will take effect as of January 1, 2010. Well, let's put it to a vote. There are no warnings to introduce this law into force as of 1 January 2010? And then we have reason to put it in place as a law, this project. The position was that if it was January 1st, additional funding would have to be provided. Do you understand? That's why I'm voting on the proposal -- the introduction of the law of 1 January 2010 -- and taking into account this proposal -- the adoption of the second reading and, in general, as a law, of the draft Law. [[Registration number 1089]] Please vote. [[17:56:19]] For 323 The law is passed. Your opinion, your colleagues, the draft Act amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Act on Basic Principles for State Supervisory in the Field of Economic Activity is proposed, and the Rapporteur is the National Deputy of Ukraine Valeriy Mihajlovich Kalchenko, co-rapporteur is the Deputy Head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship of Kuzmenko, Peter Pavlović. [[on the security of the use of nuclear energy]] [[Registration number 1397]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u104	Honourable Volodymira Mihajlovich, honourable colleagues, is submitting to your consideration a draft Ukrainian Law amending article two of the Ukrainian Law on Basic Principles for State Oversight in the Field of Economic Activity, which aims at avoiding, weakening State oversight in the field of nuclear energy use. [[on the security of the use of nuclear energy]] It is known that state oversight in the field of nuclear energy uses is carried out in three ways: enforcement of legislation, norms, rules and standards using nuclear energy; organization and management of state accounting; prevention of illicit circulation; security of nuclear materials; radioactive waste; other sources of ionizing radiation; compliance with legislation, regulations and standards for the physical protection of nuclear installations; nuclear materials; radioactive waste; other sources of ionizing radiation. Thus, State oversight in the field of nuclear power use cannot be attributed to the control of economic activity in the sense set out in the Law on Fundamental Principles of State Control in the Field of Economic Activity. [[Watched]] [[control]] The proposed bill provides for the non-proliferation of this law into relations that arise during the exercise of State oversight of compliance with nuclear and radiation safety requirements, and the implementation of the proposed bill does not require additional costs both from state and local budgets. The Supreme Council Special Committee proposes that the bill be adopted as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u105	Please take the seat of the committee. Peter Pavlovich Kuzmenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u106	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, at its meeting on 20 February 2008, reviewed the draft law of Ukraine amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Act on Basic Principles for State Oversight in the Field of Economic Activity, introduced by the national deputies Calchenko, Lozinski, Sas and others. The purpose of the bill is to avoid weakening public oversight in the field of nuclear energy use and to ensure that nuclear and radiation safety requirements are met by subjects. It should be noted that the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, in its conclusion of 22.02.2008, noted that the first reading of the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity was appropriate to reject. But the members of the committee, after considering the proposed bill, supported the authors' proposal to introduce to article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on Fundamental Principles of State Oversight in the Field of Economic Activity, a change that the Act does not extend to relations that arise in the exercise of State oversight to meet the requirements of nuclear and radiation safety. In view of the above, the Committee has decided to submit a draft for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and proposes to adopt it as a basis and as a whole as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u107	Dear colleagues, the offer is clear. Is there a need to discuss? Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, please. Well, you've already raised your hand. I didn't think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u108	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, well, I find it difficult to respond to this extremely valuable offer. I'd like to be explained to you, on what grounds do we give up State control to ensure the safety of nuclear energy? That is, no, we are in the third article, in the third article of the law, which says that such activities are exempt from State control, including nuclear safety. Unfortunately, I'm not a nuclear safety specialist, but inside, I can't do that. We already know very well what uncontrolledness is and, unfortunately, we would not want to be in trouble with you more than 20 years ago. So let the one who proposes to vote vote, but at least in the second reading, we deny to see what it is, and why not take state control of such a dangerous sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u109	Yes, dear colleagues, Helen Anatolyvna Mikolaychuk, please take the position of the State Committee for Nuclear Regulation on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u110	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Honorable national MPs, the essence of the bill, which is not in denial of State control. The point is that the law that regulates the control of economic activity does not fit into the context of the enhanced control that we have over the safety of nuclear energy. For example, on such serious nuclear facilities as nuclear power stations, we have ongoing inspections. Inspectors work there day and night, they have to go out on weekends and New Year's Eve when they need to. And their activity, in practice, would be paralyzed if we carried out it in accordance with the provisions contained in the law to which the changes are made. And that's why it's an exception to this control, and the issue of control, it's regulated by legislation on the use of nuclear energy today and by regulations.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u111	That's why you support it. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ We support this bill, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u112	Who insists on the performance? Andrew Derkac, please, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u113	We support this bill and the position of the State Nuclear Regulatory Committee for one simple reason. Adam Ivanovich, I'll give you an example. Adam Ivanovich, a concrete example: In order to carry out an unscheduled inspection, it is necessary to issue an order under the State Nuclear Regulatory Committee to bring the order to the station, to warn it in three days, and then to exercise control. Such monitoring is impossible, by decree of the Supreme Council by legislative acts that we have ratified the international agreement, we are talking about ongoing control of nuclear energy, as stated in the MEGATE instruments and recommendations. In this case, the law was required to be adopted five months ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u114	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u115	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are now amending, not the law on the use of nuclear energy and radiation security, but the law on basic principles of State oversight, control in the field of economic activity. And it is absolutely right to introduce to those bodies that are not covered by this law, State oversight of compliance with nuclear and radiation safety requirements. So this is where the clumps were inserted, and I think the speaker is now correcting it. This law must be adopted both in the first reading, and in general, as a law, there is absolutely nothing more to add. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u116	Dear colleagues! Positions have become clear that we need to adopt this law. So I put the vote first on accepting it as a basis. [[Registration number 1397]] Draft Act amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Act on Basic Principles of State Control, Control in the Field of Economic Activity. [[on the security of the use of nuclear energy]] Please vote. [[6:05:25]] For 307 Decision taken. And the committee's proposal was to accept it in the second reading and generally as a law. Is there no objection? Adam Martinyuk, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u117	Thank you. If the explanations we gave are true, I withdraw my warning and am willing to support them. But I would like to take this opportunity to say that let's write laws so that even MPs like Martinyuk would understand what they're talking about. If we write them in such a way that they cannot be understood by those who vote for them, I can imagine how they will be read and done, and how they will be treated. I'll take my notes off.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-23-m1.u118	Thank you! Dear colleagues! A second reading and, as a whole, a draft law amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Act on Basic Principles for State Oversight in the Field of Economic Activity is put to the vote. [[on the security of the use of nuclear energy]] Please vote. [[18:06:46]] For 317 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Why don't we talk about one more? May I have your attention, please? We made a deal with you in 15 minutes. Dear colleagues, I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow we'll resume the meeting at 10 a.m. We'll start working on Wednesday's schedule.
