ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Council" system. [[10:01:32]] In the session hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, 425 national deputies registered cards. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies: Serbia's Yuri Sergiyyovich, he has a Jubilee, Volince of Eugene Valeriyovich and Perestenko Marina Volodymyrovna. Let us welcome our colleagues and wish them little health and creative success. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, allow me to provide information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary session on March 4, 2009. Nine issues of the agenda were considered. As a result of the review, 1 law was passed, 1 bill was adopted as a basis, 3 bills were sent for re-reading, 4 bills were rejected. Dear National Deputies! You've been given a schedule, and we have every reason to get started. But now let me make one suggestion. We should consider the first question about the election of the National Deputies as members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You know, we've been looking into this, it's been a proper assignment. We have some disagreements. If our committee and national deputies had not objected, we would have postponed our consideration until we were able to determine the situation, since we have no agreement on the matter. Is there no objection? Thank you. Let's move on to work. A draft decree on the creation of a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the drafting of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code is being announced. a project by the Swedish National Deputy. The reporter is Shemchuk Viktor Viktorovich. Is there a Victor Viktorovich? Ah, Moisik Volodymir Romanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u2	Dear Head! Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! Your opinion is on the draft Ordinance establishing a temporary special commission for the drafting of the new Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code. Let me tell you that the adoption of this code is our Ukrainian commitment to the Council of Europe of Ukraine. In the fourth call of the Supreme Council, the Committee on Legislative Protection was the subject of this project. Under the direction of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, then Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvina, a working group was formed, except for the committee, headed by the First Deputy Vasiliev, and after his election as Attorney General, headed by the current rapporteur, the committee and the working group prepared the code, and he was approved in the first reading. Before the second reading, over 9 and a half thousand comments were made by the authors of the legislative initiative that had been worked out, and the code was prepared for the second reading. But in connection with the early elections in 2006 - 2007, according to Vladimir Mikhajlovich, when he was replaced, Parliament was not actually working and the code of hands did not reach. Today, the code is devoted to the subject of two committees: justice, the part that touches justice; and the Committee on Legislative Security, the part that deals with pretrial investigation. It's been over a year, but no one's ever read the code. So the committee approved a proposal for you to form a temporary special commission. All the factions have given their candidates. And I would ask you, fellow honourable Members, despite the fact that the conclusion of the Rules Committee is negative and is based on the fact that there is a subject on which the two committees know the matter, and yet create a commission. We'll work quickly on the codex, we'll adopt it, and then we'll share the glory. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich and colleagues, for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u3	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the faction of the Party of the Regions has made proposals for a replacement. She proposes the following national deputies: Lukas Olen Leonidivna, Špenova Dmitry Yuriovich, Bogoslovski Inna Hermanovna, in exchange for the previous nominations of Ukrainian national deputies: Grizak Vasil Mikolaiovich, Darda Dmitr Panasovich and Shenchev Dmitr Alexiyovich. Please, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, please. And then the Klukkowski Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u4	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I point out to you that we have no right to consider this issue if we take seriously the law that we overcame the President's veto a few days ago. It refers to temporary special and investigative commissions. This law clearly states that special commissions are created only in one case when a bill is being considered that does not refer to the knowledge of one or the other committee. What is proposed? Practically, the entire committee is composed of this special committee for what? Read the last item, so that the Supreme Council apparatus would provide them with additional facilities, and so on and so forth. They're members of the committee, who's stopping them from working on this code? And what's more, we're going to break the law that we've broken the veto. I suggest you take that question off the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u5	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u6	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Surprisingly, I will talk about what Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk was just talking about. When we considered the law on special commission investigators in the second reading, I had an amendment on this very point. However, the tribune reporter said that we had formed committees and that there was nothing to replace committees in the legislative process. I was just then giving an example of this particular bill as one that would require the creation of a special commission. However, the Supreme Council then rejected my amendment, and two days ago we overcame the President’s veto and passed the law. Yes, this law is not yet in force. It's not signed, it's not published. But please tell me, does the Supreme Council have any sort of sequence in action and some position in this matter? I'm sure this commission is necessary, but it will be contrary to the law on temporary commissions. Therefore, this provision cannot be made today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u7	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the proposals of the national MPs are right, and the committee has made such a project. The Conciliation Council did not object to the consideration of the matter. Therefore, it would be possible to put to the vote the replacements proposed by the Party of Regions, the faction of “regions” and to foresee that the technical and all other provisions should be placed on the relevant committee and decided, taking into account the fact that the TSC Act and other commissions by the President of Ukraine have not yet been signed. So, given this proposal, I'm going to put it to a vote, please note, first is the replacement proposed by the faction of the Party of the Regions, it's taken into account, and the work of this committee is based on the committee. Is there no objection? With this in mind, I am voting on the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine establishing a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the drafting of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure. [[Registration number 2203]] Please vote. [[10:10:41]] For-198 The decision is not taken. It is quite obvious that the committee is able to create, if necessary, a working group, engage professionals and develop this document. Let us turn to the second reading of the Laws. It's being announced. Please, Valentin Grigorovich Matthews.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u8	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! On Monday, at the Conciliation Council, an agreement was reached on this plenary week of drafts, and they were tabled as many as 8, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, you know very well about the employment of members of private peasant farms, including your bill. But unfortunately, it's already Thursday, and there's nothing on the agenda. And people in the country are waiting for this law to be passed. Moreover, yesterday at a meeting of the Committee on Social Policy, the matter was considered in a comprehensive and appropriate manner, which was referred to the Secretariat or to the Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm still asking you to include this question today so that we can accept it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u9	Thank you, that's a very good offer. But I would like to explain to you, dear colleagues, that it was decided that on Thursday we should consider submitting the documents to the committees. Regrettably, the committee considered that the documents had not been submitted. Let's take it this way. But listen to the conclusion of your mind. Let us now invite the committee to submit the documents immediately and after the second reading we will consider the decision taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There are no documents in the Supreme Council, your honor. Let them file the papers, you have them, and we'll look at them. I want to say again to my honorary colleague that they took the papers from the committee, brought them, and told them it was an official document. There's no document in the Supreme Council, we'll, we'll look at it. I now ask the secretariat and the committee to submit these documents, and we will definitely consider them. The draft Law on the National Plan of Action for the Implementation of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child is being announced for consideration until 2016. [[resecond reading]] Dear colleagues, I remind you that we've been looking at this project and we've had our differences. Reporter - Eugene Ivanovich Suslov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u10	Honorary Volodymyr Mihajlovich, Honorary Collegiate, 30 September 2008 draft Ukrainian Law on the National Plan of Action for the Implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, registered until 2016 under number 2564, introduced by the President of Ukraine as an urgent date in 23.05.2008. He was accepted in the first reading, and in the second reading, he did not get the required number of votes and was directed at rereading the second reading. The Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism in the process of preparing the bill for resecond reading has revised the bill. Fifty proposals and amendments were made by the National Deputies to read again, and only five were not taken into account. The proposals made by the national deputies who recognized the discussion in the hall on the previous second reading were taken into account. Thus, the committee took into account the proposal No. 41 of the Tomenka People’s Deputies to remove the appendix to the national program project, which contains a list of measures. First, it was based on the fact that the bill did not contain a full list of measures, the undetermined parties to each action on the program as a whole, the scope and sources of funding for the programme. Secondly, the difficult financial and economic situation of Ukraine does not allow us to predict the size of the financial resources that needed to be directed towards the implementation of the national programme. In view of this, the committee took into account the proposal number two of Tomenka, in which it authorized the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to develop and approve, within three months, the measures implemented by the National Plan of Action for the Implementation of the UN Convention and the Rights of the Children. The adoption of the bill will allow a systematic solution to the problems of childhood, avoid distractions of various departments, and conduct a clear monitoring of the effectiveness of measures. Please accept the bill in second reading and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, we have considered this bill, sent it for further work. The proposals that have been made here, which have caused us contradictions, are taken into account. Why don't we make that decision? Let's vote. I am voting on the draft Law on the National Plan of Action for the Implementation of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child by 2016 for adoption in second reading and in general as a law. [[Registration number 2564]] Please vote. [[10:17:00]] For 348 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, since we have a schedule of meetings, as you can see, for today there is a three-day job permit, I'm going to put a proposal to the vote. May I have your attention, please? Traditionally, to continue the evening session until at least 20 o'clock. Please vote. [[10:17:39]] For-174 The decision is not taken. Second offer. Bills that we will consider in the first reading to consider in a simplified way. Please vote. Please vote. [[10:18:04]] For-179 Decision taken. Thank you. It's being announced. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich. Ephraim, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u12	Vladimir Mihajlovich, we seem to be making a mistake and turning the work of the Supreme Council into a farce when every day we vote that we are considering the bills in a summary procedure. It follows that, in this short procedure, MPs cannot express their views, we make wrong decisions, and in two weeks we return to review them. And even in the programme that we are currently considering, there are a number of bills that we have considered three weeks ago, and today we say that we need to change our approach to this issue. There are bills that are not burdened with a lot of sense, and there is a point in considering them in a reduced procedure. But there are serious bills and they can't be treated that easily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u13	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if we are to consider today the private agriculture of eight bills and we cannot find a single point of approach and we can only consider these bills during the day, and if today we are invited by the Conciliation Council to consider almost 50 bills and the Supreme Council does not want to continue the evening session for two hours, then, I think, here we should probably look for a way out of this situation, and so a perfectly correct question. A draft Law amending certain legislators is being announced for consideration. Out of procedure, please, Andrew Cosemiakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u14	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to ask you once again to pay attention to Decree 4157 – this is the Order for the Establishment of an Interim Investigation Commission to Investigate the illegal actions of the Ukrainian Security Service, which continues to be illegal again this morning, because yesterday, by a decision of the court, any action taken in these criminal cases has been suspended. At this hour, Ukrainian security investigators are trying to conduct investigation activities in the premises of the “Ukratransgasu”. Once again, I'd like to ask you this question today, first of all, first of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u15	Thank you. You and I have made decisions yesterday, Your Honor, when a draft of the relevant decision is prepared and the committee is concluded, we will consider it immediately. Please give me these committee decisions and we'll put it to a vote right away. I offered you, come on. There are no papers yet. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on documents certifying ownership of land as well as the division and consolidation of land]] Reporter: Head of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, Valérie Fedorovich Bevanzenko. Do you have Valery Fedorovich? Who will report from the committee? What are we going to put off? Where this document is, let the faction leaders sign it, I'll put it to the vote. I mean, we agreed with you that there would be a decision and we'll make a decision that you're running. The committee's head is from the agro-industry complex of land relations? Roman Tchac, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u16	Roman Tkac, group "For Ukraine!", faction "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense". Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! You will recall that last week a bill under number 2606 on documents that show ownership of the land as well as the order in which the land was divided and merged at the request of many national deputies, you withdrew and sent for a second read. Why did we do that? In principle, during the consideration of this issue both on the committee and then there were so many questions about how to organize this process. I want to say very briefly what this is about. Today, when a citizen buys land or receives it or inherits it or shares it or other civil law agreements, he is obliged to re-produce a state act. This requires much effort, both material and organizational. We need to go through the entire land documentation procedure again. We have to pay for these jobs. And that's why, given the many appeals of citizens and many organizations, it was suggested in the original version that, apart from the State Act, these certification documents could also serve civil law agreements. Nor is it necessary to produce a national act. And as a result, we only have 58 proposals from the National Deputies. Some are rejected, some are counted, some are counted in part. And that's why a bill is being tabled today, and according to the committee's decision, I think it can be adopted today on second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u17	Let's do some repairs. Amendment number 3. National MP Pisarenko insists on her? Is it insistence or not correction? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u18	I insist, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I insist. Please put this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u19	I'm voting on amendment number three of People's Deputies Pisarenko. [[10:25:12]] For-140. The decision is not taken. Amendment to the 10th Anatolia Seminoga. Does Seminog insist? No, there isn't. Amendment 14 of Mishchenka. Sergey Mishchenko insists on her? No, it doesn't. Amendment number 18 Pisarenka. Are you insisting on her? This is page eight.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u20	No, I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u21	Amendment number 19 Pisarenka and amendment 20 also Pisarenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u22	No, we took this amendment off the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u23	Thank you. 22nd Beazenka repair. Don't insist. 23rd Pisarenka repair. Don't you insist on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u24	Now, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u25	This is page 9.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u26	I see. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u27	Correction of the 23rd People's Deputy Pisarenko. Paragraph 2 of second article 100 of the Ukrainian Code of Land should be deleted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. [[10:26:51]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Correction of the 31st People's Deputy Pisarenko. In the second paragraph of section 10, paragraph 17, Transitional provisions, replace the words “and grant them State ownership rights to land” with the words “and the State registration of ownership rights to them”. Are you insisting on this amendment? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u28	Vladimir Mikhailovich, this will be linked to us by text, the committee I ask to see, because we are moving on to state registration, there will be such a concept by law. And in transitional situations, we're going to have acts, so we're going to get confused. Then the law will have to be amended. I ask the committee to take another look at this and we may need to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u29	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u30	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, you see, really, our colleague Pisarenko has made a lot of comments. I know he worked with the head of the committee, with Valery Fedorovich Bevzenk, and we were looking at it on the committee. And that's why it's very difficult to get any sentence out of context right now, because it's all tied together, and then it's going to lose its meaning. As far as I know, literally every position has been explained to the honorary colleague, and he still has several positions that have been rejected. So now it's hard for me to say because it goes in context, literally every word is tied to the general idea of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u31	Please, Pisarenko, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u32	You know, it's very bad that the committee can't go through every correction and argue. So I understand that then we will not have support for individual amendments, and my amendments were aimed specifically at facilitating land formation, including the registration of their division and allocation rights. So let's make these adjustments, if we can't talk about it, and most of the room today doesn't support the benefit of today's peasants and people who have land rights, then let's move on to other amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u33	Well, I do have a short line. I wouldn't take it that way. I want to tell you that we had this matter discussed at a committee meeting about an hour and a half. We literally went through every correction, along with the experts of the Statecommere, from Miniuste. So if we move this to the hall right now, we're going to be discussing this for two hours.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, can you keep it down for half a ton? There's no way to work. They took out 31 amendments. The 34th Romana Weaver repair. Are you insisting on her? Don't insist. Pisarenko, 35 repairs. No, it's not. Don't you insist? Amendment 39, Pisarenko and 40th. Are you insisting on her? This is page 16. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u35	The committee has moved away from the concept of introducing a term for land formation, so the following amendments are made. I don't insist on them.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u36	Thank you. Amendment 48. Well, you don't insist, so let's move on. People's deputy Krutz, 55th Amendment. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. All other amendments are included. Please, the closing word.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u37	Dear colleagues! I ask you to take this bill seriously, and we can read it now. vote in second reading and in general. This is a very necessary bill, and in principle we tried to take all the suggestions into account on the committee. There is a representative here from the State Commission, so I would like to ask you to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u38	Dear colleagues! There is a motion for a second reading committee to vote and, as a whole, a bill amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on documents certifying ownership of land as well as the division and consolidation of land]] Registration number 2606. Please vote. [[10:31:23]] For 345. The law is passed. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on a Congregation for the Development of Graduation, Gardening and Harming is being announced for consideration. National MP Smithukh. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u39	Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! The bill that you are proposing today is very important for the development of grapes, gardening and hops in Ukraine. If accepted by the Supreme Council, it contains all the necessary positions to accelerate the development of this important component of the agricultural sector. During the drafting of the draft for second reading, 11 amendments and proposals were made to the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations from the Ukrainian National Deputies. All of them were independently considered in accordance with the established procedure. In summary, a decision has been made. The amendments of the People's Deputy Kruglov, the People's Deputy of Žebravski, the People's Deputy of Seminoga, the People's Deputy of Kruc and Seminoga are included. [[on the new edition of articles of the First and Second Law, which define the circle of subjects who pay for the congregation]] [[on leaving the assembly rate as drafted by the bill in force, i.e. 1 per cent]] [[on the identification of the central executive authority as the principal manager of the funds charged to the congregation for the development of grapes, gardening and hops]] [[on the taking-up of the Act of 1 January 2010]] The unaccounted - for amendments of the Karmazin People’s Deputy, since according to the Committee on Agriculture in Ukraine, there is now a need for the same state support as for gardening and farming. [[concerning the limitation of the scope of the law of the congregation on grapes and gardening]] Moreover, this is contrary to the general concept of the law to which amendments are made. National Deputy Kruglov: on capital transfers to taxpayers, because this rule is within the scope of the Business Income Taxation Act. In addition to the second reading of the bill, it is suggested that the payers of the congregation for the development of grapes, gardening and hops are subjects of entrepreneurial activity, regardless of the forms of ownership and subordination that are implemented in the wholesale retail trade network and the public food network, alcoholic beverages and beer. Alcohol and beer producers are paid by the congregation only if they make it available to consumers in the retail trade. The tax facility of the congregation is the proceeds of the turnover obtained at all stages of implementation in the wholesale retail network and in the public food network, alcoholic beverages and beer. The sums of the congregation are distributed and used in this way: 90 percent for the development of grapes and gardening, 10 percent for the development of hops. This law is proposed until December 31, 2014. The law takes effect on January 1, 2010. By its decision of 3 February 2009, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the Law “On the Collection and Development of Graduation, Gardening and Shrines” dated 15 September 2008. [[Registration number 3152]] Adopt in second reading and generally as a law of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u40	Honorable National MPs, as amended. Yuri Carmazin, insisting on correction? No, it's not. Yes, Paul Zebrowsky, the fifth amendment. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, I would like to take this amendment very carefully, as it is. What is the point of this amendment? If the law originally envisaged to increase the number of grapes, vegetables, and hops to 1.5 percent, then it reduced from 15 percent to 10 percent for hops from that amount, then it returned to one percent. And they left 10 percent just for junk. Because of this, if we leave the same numbers, I ask, not 10 percent, but 15 percent, as in the past, to leave to the congregation for hops. Because we're essentially stealing junk. And that distribution would be fair. I'm asking you very much to support this amendment, which is today in the Polish districts, many areas, including my native Zitomir district. I'd like to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u42	In the opinion of the committee, we considered this amendment and, in fact, when there was a question in the first reading there was a bill that would leave a standard of 1.5 percent, it would be appropriate to make and leave your proposals. But when we analyzed in the Committee on Statistics, which today is in this field, we found that 15 percent is going to be too much for this area, because the state of gardening, grapes and hops today is going to be considered critical in the country and support, or redistribution of funds needs more for gardening than for hops. And 10 percent, really, you said that this Polish area is relevant, this is, in our opinion, enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u43	Sergey Ribuk, Sergey Ribuk. I think this amendment by Pavel Zebrowski is worth supporting us, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u44	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. In fact, Deputy Zhebrevski is absolutely right here, Vladimir Mikhailovich. And we're talking. And we need to support the position of the deputy of Žebrovsky, because if one-and-a-half percent is rejected, then we need to turn it back the way it was, and this proposal is quite appropriate. Indeed, there is no more investment going to the Polish regions, there is Žitomirščina, there is Plainskin, and to Lviv, like hops. And I ask my colleagues to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u45	Katerina Vaschuk. Dear colleagues, this is a discussion we're having, it's not to be assumed. Please, Katerina Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u46	Dear colleagues! I agree with the previous speakers. What Is Humbleness? It's not just our own brewing product, it's about expanding the employment opportunities of the rural population in the Polish depressed areas. There are absolutely no people to do it, which is that it costs a lot of handiwork, a woman’s labor. They tend, they rip off, they rip off. All of this takes up a huge part of the rural population, making it possible for them to make money. In addition, when making beer, we have the opportunity to use our own raw material. How much can you import from abroad when you can produce in Ukraine? In the past, Ukrainian hops were always used. We need to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u47	Well, shall we vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u48	Dear National Deputies! The committee, based on the analysis of the situation in this field, has made decisions according to the statistics we have today. To the national MPs who are proposing to support this amendment, I want to give examples that, for example, in Ukraine in 2005, only 6.5 million dollars were allocated in 2005 and in 2007 29,584. Unfortunately, I don't have any fresh information in 2008, but this statistics talk about the growth dynamics for this area. And given that we have a regional component that affects the development of this area of hops is the first part of the Gitomir region, the Winnitsk region, the Volin region, the Lviv region, part of the Plain region, in general, we're still offering to define the hall, please, we're offering 10 percent if it supports 15, we're going to leave 15.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat my amendment to Comrade Zebrovsky. In part three, article 4 after the words “that way”, put it as follows: “85 for the development of agriculture and gardening, 15 for the development of hop farming”. Please vote for this amendment. Please be supportive. [[10:40:30.]] For 239. Correction accepted. All other amendments are included. Dear colleagues, the proposal for a second reading committee is put to the vote, as a whole, as a bill of the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on a Congregation for the Development of Graduation, Gardening and Shrimping. [[Registration number 3152]] Please vote. [[10:41:07]] For 253 The law is passed. The draft Law on the Disciplinary Statute of Organs and Units of Civil Protection has been announced for consideration. Reporter: Head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, Vladimir Petrovich Skoubenko. Reporters, please, focus on the amendments, don't renegotiate the law, we all need to know it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, in your second reading, the draft Law on the Disciplinary Statute of Organs and Units of Civil Protection is being submitted to your consideration. The draft law defines the content of service discipline, the rights and responsibilities of the special composition of organs and units of civil protection in respect of its observance, appropriate encouragement and discipline, the order in which they are applied, and the order in which proposals and complaints are submitted and considered. The bill was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on March 23, 2007. On January 24, 2008, the draft law was considered by the Committee in its second reading. From the people’s deputies to the text of the project came 33 proposals that were fully considered. The bill received comments from the Supreme Council’s Chief Legal Office, which were also partially satisfied. By dividing the Charter of Disciplinary, developed in the form of concepts by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the decision of the Council of National Security and Defence of Ukraine on 16 May 2008 and the order of the Cabinet of Ministers of 12 November 2008 No. 1494 of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine approved the concept of the draft Civil Protection Code for Ukraine, which will form part of the disciplinary statute of this service. Other observations of the General Legal Authority are taken into account. The adoption of the Act will allow for the maintenance of a high level of service and law enforcement among members of the civil protection services, both of whom will ensure that they carry out their assigned tasks. The committee proposes to adopt the bill in second reading and generally as a law. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, this is the happy occasion when all 33 proposals were supported by the committee. And so we have every reason to put to the vote a proposal for a second reading committee and, as a whole, a draft law of the Law on the Disciplinary Statute of Organs and Civil Protection Units. [[Registration number 0910]] Please vote. [[10:44:12]] For 386 Decision taken. The draft Act on Supplements to Article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on the regulation of trade-offs in the field of external economic activity is being announced for consideration. Reporter: Alexy Plonikov, Committee on Economic Policy. Do you have a colleague of the Plotniks? Dear colleagues, this law has not received any amendments, additions, clarifications and pretentions, and the Chief Legal, Scientific and Experimental Authority and our committee without any comments. If you don't mind, I'll put him to the vote. The proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, a draft law of the Law on Supplements to Article 2 of the Law on the regulation of foreign exchange transactions is submitted to the vote. [[Registration number 0972]] Please vote. It's a project, my dear colleagues, a Kabmin. [[10:45:35]] For 223 The decision is not taken. What do you want to do? Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the return to draft law 0972 -- the Kabmin draft. [[10:46:06]] For 229 We're back. Now I'm voting on the adoption of the draft law as a law, registration number 0972. Please vote. [[10:46:32]] For 229 The law is passed. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the organization of statistical observations is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Gayman Oleg Eisikovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u52	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Your opinion is proposed for consideration in the second reading of the draft Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the organization of statistical observations. The bill, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, was adopted as a basis on June 19, 2007, for what it is transitional. The purpose of the draft law is to further improve national legislation in the field of statistics and to adapt it to European Union standards. The bill provides for amendments to the laws “On State statistics”, “On the income tax of natural persons” and the Economic Code of Ukraine. The amendment to the Act on State Statistics focuses primarily on improving the legal regulation of the relations between the authorities of state statistics and respondents, and provides for further improvement of statistical methodology, development of legal principles, planning of statistical activities, etc. These changes are made in order to introduce the provisions of the Law on State Statistics and to comply with international legal standards in this field. Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Tax on the Income of Individuals are based on the need to encourage citizens to participate in selective statistical surveys as natural persons' respondents. To this end, it is proposed not to include in the general monthly or annual taxation of income paid by citizens in the form of financial compensation for such participation. In addition, in order to ensure the fullness of statistics and to increase the reliability of information, editorial details and additions to the Ukrainian Code of Masters are envisaged as part of the definition of “responsort of statistical observation”. In particular, for the purpose of obtaining and developing statistical information, the territorial section sets out the order of accounting and statistical reporting for separate branches of legal persons. The adoption of this law will contribute to the implementation of the development strategy and the reform of the system of state statistics in order to improve the interaction between all participants in statistical activities, improve the quality of statistical information provided to the State and society, improve the information and analysis base of research on the standard of living of the population, monitoring of poverty.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, two amendments have been made to the draft law. They're all accounted for. The committee's proposal is to recommend a bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt it as a law. Is there no objection? A second reading proposal is put to the vote by the adoption committee and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the organisation of statistical observations. Registration number 0976. Please vote. [[10:50:58]] For 354 Decision taken. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 0977, is being announced for consideration. [[on land relations]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Economic Policy's subcommittee, Yuri Mikolayovich Voropeyev. Is there a Yuri Mikolaiovich? Please, Yuri Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u54	Bill 0977 is already under consideration on second reading, taking into account the amendments made to the bill by the Ukrainian people's deputies. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy considered these amendments and took full account of them. There are no objections, no amendments that have been taken into account. There is an expert opinion, it is fully in line with the bill. There is no objection to it either. The essence of this bill. There are currently two normative instruments. One of them is called the Code of Commerce of Ukraine and the other is called the Land Rental Act, which contradicts each other. Under the Ukrainian Economic Code, all land leases must be certified without exception. Under the Land Rental Act, leases can be notarized, but this is not a mandatory norm. That's it. A standard governing the lease of land from the Economic Code is brought into line and is excluded, and the rule in the Land Rental Act remains fully in force. Naturally, in order to bring all regulations under the law into line, the Cabinet of Ministers is mandated to do so and it is time to bring its regulations into line with this law. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, a second reading committee proposal is put to the vote as a bill of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on land relations. Change the vote. Please, Roman Tchac.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u56	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Roman Tkac, group “For Ukraine!” You know what this is about. It's a shame that this bill was discussed at the Committee on Economic Policy, but it's about land relations. We have three bills registered on the committee. What's the question here? When a person rents his land, there is a lease agreement, and here in society even, really, as my colleague said, there is double treatment in legislation, and there is no clear single position in society: to register with a notary or not to register with a notary. On the one hand, to avoid the deception of the very people living in the village, it would seem necessary to register with the notary. But at the same time, the question is that notaries take 100 to 200 dollars for registration, and every lease agreement costs a person money. And that's why I'd say, or take it down and send it over to our Committee on Agrarian Politics, or some of the experts at the Ministry of Justice, the State Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u57	Thank you. But the point is, my dear colleagues, that since 2007, we have been studying the opinion of experts in the Supreme Council. How much can you study it? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u58	You're talking about an entirely different issue: registration of land rights, that's two other laws that. Can I finish? which we are not yet considering. They'll be looking at us. And there's a working group on this registration with Minusto, Dercommism, BTI there and so on. This law regulates only one small rule. It concerns only one, she now says that there are two laws that contradict each other in one small part, whether the notary certificate of the lease or not is necessary, or whether it is the right of the peasants and the person who leases, the right of the notary contract to certify or not to make a notary certificate. That's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u59	This is not a discussion. Your proposal has been made, I'm putting it to the vote. That we're here. a discussion, discussing a bill in a second reading? Please, from the government, the position of the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u60	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, the problem is that the Rent Act states that contracts that are leased land under five years of age may, at the request of one party, be certified notionally and not necessarily. [[short-term lease]] And the Codex of the Master states that it is necessary to do so. That is why we hold to the view that what is enshrined in the Land Rental Act should be fundamental in terms of land relations. It is therefore for bringing the Code of Masters into line with the Land Rental Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u61	May I put it to a vote? There is a motion for a second-reading committee to vote and, as a whole, a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation, registration number 0977. [[on land relations]] [[10:56:49]] For 217 The decision is not taken. The second sentence is for re-reading. On the second reading of the draft Law 0977. Please vote. [[10:57:19]] For 372 Decision taken. And let's, honourable colleagues, protocolly give the commission to the Committee also on land relations, agro-industrial policy, land relations to join in the consideration of this document so that we don't have any differences in the session room. A draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Natural Monopolies is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 0979]] The rapporteur is Alexy Alexiyovich Kostuyev, head of the Committee on Economic Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u62	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! The draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Natural Monopolies, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, was adopted on the basis of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 19 June 2007. The bill proposes to improve the legal basis for the formation of tariffs on goods, services produced or carried out by natural monopolies. To prevent, above all, the inclusion of unjustified costs, to ensure transparency and transparency in the formation of prices and tariffs for goods, services produced by natural monopolies and to protect the rights of, above all, consumers of these services as entrepreneurs and, of course, ordinary people. In preparing the draft second reading bill, the Committee on Economic Policy carefully examined the comments of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council. On 20 February 2008, the members of the Committee on Economic Policy supported the final drafting of the proposed bill at the meeting of the Committee. The Cabinet of Ministers also supports the adoption of the bill. The main legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is the bill. The Committee on Economic Policy recommends that the Supreme Council adopt a draft law amending article 9 of the Law on Natural Monopolies of Ukraine on second reading and the law as a whole. and the adoption of the law as a whole. If it's easier, what is it? It is the case that article 9 of the Act states that tariffs do not include such costs as the amounts of untrustworthy debt, the amounts of shortfalls, the funds that these companies transfer to others, both legal and physical, sponsoring aid, such as the content of their socio-cultural objects, fines, instability and so on. Because it's ridiculous! Let's say they've done fines, they've got foam on them, and it's all on tariffs. What should make people pay for these costs, which are not directly related to the provision of these services, such as heat, what warms them up? That's why I think it's an absolute law that's understandable, right, fair. We went to his adoption for not one year and it will be the right thing to do, and I think people will thank us if we adopt this law today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u63	Thank you. Dear colleagues, a second reading committee proposal is put to the vote and as a whole a bill amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Natural Monopolies. Registration number 0979. Please vote. Please vote. [[11:01:29]] For 202 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, it's about people paying less, and we don't want to vote. Well, second, there's nothing to re-send the second. Do you understand? Or we have to reject the law and everything. Who's to go back to the debate? draft Law 0979, please vote. [[11:02:07]] For 227 We're back to the hearing. I'm voting on the adoption of the draft law as a law, 0979. Please vote. [[11:02:28]] For 235 The law is passed. A draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine (referring to changes in the system of assembly of troops (force)), registration number 2223, has been announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u64	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! This bill was adopted in our first reading last year and 10 months ago was considered by the committee for a second reading. The members of the committee unanimously voted in favour of the changes proposed. What is the point? An expanded category of citizens who can be accepted into the contract service is expanding. First: the age limit is removed. [[Between 19 and 18 years of age]] Second: For those who are willing to serve on a contract with members of the military service, they will be able to serve three months of service, not six months of service. And the third is that citizens who didn't take part in the service but who are of the age of engagement, if they have a full, I emphasize, full secondary education, can also enter into the service on a contract basis. We took into account all the suggestions that came to second reading, except for one: it applied to the title of the law. Please support in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, as always, have been irreprehensibly dismissed by the National Security and Defence Committee. And there is every reason to put him to the vote. On the adoption of the second reading and generally as a bill of the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine (as regards changes in the system of assembly of troops (force) with a special composition). Registration number 2223. Please vote. Here comes the vote, please vote, Your Honor. [[11:04:32]] For 211 The decision is not taken. I ask the head of the committee, please let me tell you again when we haven't gotten to this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to take another look. The document has no political character; it aims at making more opportunities for those who want to serve in the contractual army. There is no additional budget expenditure, and the committee, I emphasize, voted all “in favour” unanimously, all factions. Maybe someone didn't get it. Please support this document, it's important to the army, to return to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u67	I'm voting for a return to the bill, registration number 2223. Please vote. [[11:05:27]] For 245 They went back to reviewing the bill. And now a second reading committee proposal is put to the vote and as a whole a bill amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[Registration number 2223]] Please vote. [[11:06:00]] For 248 The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Pension Insurance is being announced for consideration on the payment of debts to the Pension Fund. [[Registration number 2315]] Reporter: Valeriy Mihajlovich Suškević, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u68	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, your opinion is proposed for a second reading of the bill to amend some of the legislative acts to pay off the arrears to the Pension Fund. Dear colleagues, two main aspects of this bill, peppers, increased administrative responsibility for matters of evasion, other ways of avoiding payment to the Pension Fund. That's the first one. Second, to unlock the current payments to the Pension Fund by restructuring the debt that arose. This is the main point of the bill, which is proposed for consideration in the second reading. Vladimir Mikhailovich, we have amendments, most of which are taken into account, but there are those that are rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u69	Second amendment of the People's Deputy Landik Volodymira Ivanovich. Are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u70	Please agree with the committee, because this amendment might work a little bit on ways out. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u71	The third amendment, George Carmazin insists on it?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u72	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u73	Anatoly Seminoga, the fourth amendment, insists? No, it's not. John the Rabbit, the fifth amendment. No, it's not. Sixth Amendment, Yuri Carmazin. No, it's not. Yuri Serbin, tenth amendment. No, it's not. All other amendments are included.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, I ask you very much to support this bill. Let us consider that today the Pension Fund, although functioning normally, is declining. So please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u75	Honorable fellow workers! Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u76	Thank you. The Communist faction, the first deputy head of the Committee of Cibenko, Peter Stepanovich. Dear colleagues, of course, there is a logic in the document that is being considered: to reduce responsibility for late payment of contributions to the Pension Fund. But there is another logic of reasoning, especially that used by the Communist faction. The point is that employers at the same time who were supposed to pay contributions to the Pension Fund did not. Today, we are mitigating their responsibility for late payment, and in this way we are, even if we do not want to, but we encourage the timely payment of contributions to the Pension Fund. That is why, for example, the faction of the Company of Ukraine believes that we do not have the right, especially in view of the crisis, to encourage untimely payment of contributions to the Pension Fund and to mitigate fines. That's why the Company's faction is for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u77	I want to explain briefly, dear colleagues. The point is that today, when businesses are also struggling, when the debt of many operators has been incurred, it is a matter of providing the current payments in full and allowing for a certain level of debt restructuring. I ask for support because it works and harmonises the problems of those who work and pay to the Pension Fund and those who need something that affects pension support. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u78	Now, one minute. Yuri Carmazin, then Vladimir Landik.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u79	Yuri Anatolyevich, it is included.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u80	Thank you. Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”. Thank you. That's the 12th. But as for the sixth amendment to article 106, I want to, I'm confident that now the Hall will support us and you, too, committee, will support us. I propose to introduce in article 106 the rule that an insurer who, despite his debt, is in debt, but who has begun to pay the current premiums, is entitled to receive the payment of the payment of the payment of the debt, under the terms and conditions provided for the payment of the sums, fines and pennies. I mean, it's about getting those deckers to start playing by the normal rules of the game, so they also have some hope, hope is better than not having anything. That's what I'm talking about. And I'd like you to listen and listen to that. And I'd like to hear my colleague Suškević's opinion on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u81	Yuri Anatolyovich, thank you. The committee has studied your proposal very carefully. There is a moment there, but in this situation, there will be some problem of violating the pension rights of some pensioners under the Pension Fund. So I'm asking you to accept the position of the committee and support it in the way that we decided to vote in the second reading today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the amendment number six of Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u83	The committee suggests rejecting because there is a certain violation of the rights of insurers. [[11:12:27]] Z-62
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u84	For 62. The decision is not taken. Vladimir Landik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u85	Thank you. My amendment. They don't want to see it. Think about what this amendment says. She says that we now have a pyramid in the Pension Fund. She might be. They didn't want to, but she left. If businesses, like Carmazin, say, did not pay any contributions, and now began to work, it owed debts over the past years when it lay down when the owner was a Power or someone else. A new investor comes in, starts paying, and he's protected for 33 years. This year, fines are again up to 50 per cent. He'll never get out of that position. And the pension fund, I'm sorry, is going to flourish. He won't do anything, he'll live for 33 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u86	I want to answer. They also analyzed the amendment with the Pension Fund on the committee. Once again, there are options that will allow you to withdraw to the pension fund. So I ask you to accept the position of the committee and to support what is involved in this amendment. She can't be counted right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u87	Amendment No. 2 of the Landik People's Deputies shall be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u88	The Mayor's offering to reject it. [[11:14:05]] For 180. Correction not accepted. Yes, Your Honor, all the amendments have been voted on. A second-reading committee proposal is put to the vote and, as a whole, a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the National Compulsory Pension Insurance. [[on the repayment of debts to the Pension Fund]] Please vote for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u89	Colleagues, let's support the harmonization of the interests of the Pension Fund and those who provide payments. Please support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u90	Please vote. [[11:14:47]] For 332 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, please note, we have just considered and passed the Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the organization of statistical observations. [[Registration number 0976]] At the same time, the reporter did not point out that we need to provide for one clarification, not as of January 1, 2009, but as of January 1, 2010. We need to vote on this amendment to this law. Dear colleagues, a technical amendment, please vote on Law 0976. [[11:15:43]] For 370. Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Taxation of Owners of Vehicles and Other Car and Mechanisms is now under review. [[Registration number 3030-1]] But I would like to stress, in accordance with our agreement and our decision, that 12 hours ago we will be voting on draft decrees for the creation of interim commissions of inquiry. I'd like to take this into account, dear colleagues, when planning your work. Mikhailo Chechetov, please. Here's the microphone. Mikhail Chechtov's microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u91	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! As the law is very socialally resonant and so that we do not stop Kiev again, so that hundreds of thousands of people do not go to Kiev, please ask that every amendment, regardless of whether it is taken into account by the committee or rejected, be put to the vote. If even counted, let the hall confirm. If rejected, the author agrees, please confirm. Every correction. Because the question, I repeat, is socially resonant, so that we don't do another stupid thing and get on the rake for the second time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u92	I see. Adam Martinyuk. With regard to Michael Chechtchev's proposal, that is a regulatory requirement. And if there is insistence we will vote the amendment counted or rejected and at the same time we will be defined in the session room. Please, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u93	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I remind you, as one of the drafters of the bill, my colleague Simonenko and I have also introduced this bill, because it has caused, indeed, resonance social misunderstandings. Unfortunately, the profile committee does what it deems necessary once again. That's his business. But I, in support of Michael Chechchev's proposal, ask all the national MPs to vote separately in order to leave only what we accepted in the first reading. Because if we now support at least one amendment of Terhochin, we will go back to what we were fighting, even the worst. And if we adopt the draft in the first option, we'll go back to the original version until these dragon changes were made in December. Therefore, dear colleagues, the one who cares for the electorate, I ask you not to support any amendments to Teryochin and other nationals.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u94	Dear National Deputies! By your commission, the Tax and Customs Committee has reviewed this law, and all the regulations introduced have been taken into account, except for two, because we believe that these two are not in time. We wanted a protocol commission from the Head of the Supreme Council to introduce from January 1st a new ideology of this law, where the tax was managed not by the owners of the means of transport but by the means of transport. And to go exclusively to local budgets, to finance the needs of road construction. Regarding the statement made by the previous speaker. Well, it was raining yesterday. I would like to point out that we need to read the law better. In line with the task presented to the Committee of the Supreme Council, a completely authentic breakdown was made, but it is convenient for users, authentically because the National Deputies Simonenko and the People's Deputy Martinyuk were offered, except for two positions. National deputies Simonenko and Martinyuk, in their project, offered to raise rates on small cars one and a half times, according to current ones, to raise and triple the rates on cars with more than three liters. Obviously, we couldn't agree with that position, and we suggested leaving the status quo up to 3 liters that work today, that is, nothing would change, as was required by the protest of motorists. But with local budgets in mind, some 550 million dollars will be lost. We offered 750 million dollars to local budgets to compensate by raising from 40 dollars to 60 dollars by more than three liters. These are the cars you and I use, the national deputies of honor, and we're in business. And you're driving. And twice as many as five liters on these, you know, crocodiles. Plus we've proposed amending the Budget Code and writing that 100 percent of this tax goes to the local budget chiefs exclusively to finance road construction, not to any other needs. It was also the offer of motorists to have roads built for this congregation, not for wage officials. This is the difference between what we accepted in the first reading and in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u95	Please, a line. Let's go get some repairs. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u96	Simonenko, the Communist faction. One more time, Mr. Terhochin is simply misleading the entire Supreme Council. Adam Ivanovich and I have proposed that the law that worked before the December amendments that led to the indignation of many of our citizens be applied. And in this case, we don't raise any bets on the little ones that Mr. Terrohin is talking about. So to me, it's no surprise, I'm just for our radio audiences and our voters, and I'm telling our voters that Teryohin is once again trying to propose the amendments that they're saving the budget and going into the pockets of our ordinary citizens. That's the difference. And he confused our bill that we're making with Adam Ivanovich, with the government's
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u97	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, unfortunately, did not read again to the leader of the Communist Party what he wrote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u98	Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u99	I'm sorry. From 1,000 to 1800, three, four, and five bracelets of 100 cubic centimetres stood before the storm. Ladies and gentlemen of the Communist Party have proposed to raise to 4, 5 and 7. It was 120 bracelets, over 3 liters, and they offered to bring it down to 40, three times. Here are those suggestions that were accepted in the first reading. We suggest not to touch small quantities, but to raise 3 liters by one and a half times.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u100	Sergey Anatolyevich, let's go to the repairs, not to deceive. Let's go to the repairs. Correction of the 1st People's Deputy of Moscal. Hennady Hennadiovich, please. None. But at the same time, we will put this amendment to the vote. I put to the vote Amendment No. 1 of the Moscow People's Deputy on the Preamble of Law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u101	The preamble does not refer to the content of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u102	But at the same time, it is an integral part of the law. [[11:25:12]] For 111 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 2 of Gennady Moscal. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u103	It is not supported because it does not fit in the positions that will be adopted and approved by the Supreme Council in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u104	At the same time, the amendment No. 2 of Ukraine’s national deputy Hennadia Moskal is put to the vote. [[11:25:50]] For-30 Correction not supported. Amendment number 3 Sergey Teryochina, she's counted by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u105	I would only like to point out that it is agreed upon by the Council of Entrepreneurs at the Cabinet of Ministers without any comment. With motorists, yes, it's consistent with motorists. [[B in m in s a l in]] Agreeable to motorists who. It's for entrepreneurs at the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, as required by the Rules and at the suggestion of the National Deputies, please note that I am voting in favour of this amendment, amendment number three, Sergio Teriochina, which is counted by the Committee. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u107	The committee's offering to support it. [[11:26:54]] For 134 The decision is not taken. It's pretty obvious that we don't have to go through the law anymore then, I think. Let's move on. Come on. We didn't vote on the third one. Let's move on. Amendment to Fourth Hennadia Moskal. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u108	Not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u109	The committee does not support this. However, it does, this amendment, for the vote. Amendment No. 4 of the Moskal People's Deputies. [[11:27:43]] For the 10th. Amendment 10 not accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u110	Fifth.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u111	I'm sorry, amendment four. Ten national deputies voted for it, and no decision was taken. Correction of the heel. Again, the people's deputy Moskal.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u112	Not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u113	The committee does not support this. I'm betting on the vote for amendment number five of Moskal's national deputies. [[11:28:19]] For-9 The decision is not taken. Amendment to Sixth Sergey Osika.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, it's an interesting piece of paper that deals with paying off cars that use alternative types of fuel. But it is written in such a way that it is virtually impossible to administer. We would like a protocol commission, which I was talking about, from the Chief of the Supreme Council, to propose a broad range of alternative fuels that would have reduced rates and excises and a transport congregation. We are ready to consider such a bill involving the author of this amendment. In this way, we have been notified of our ministry. They can't just apply it in practice.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u115	Yes. Dear colleagues! Sergey Osika insists on his arguments? Don't insist. Is he insisting? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u116	Dear colleagues! We only have 4.5 percent of the cars in the country that we actually have working on gas. It was people who invested their money in remodeling and using cheaper fuel. As far as administration is concerned, it goes through GAI and the technologists. I think Terjehohin says that we're still regulating this in the future, but I'm asking you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u117	We can't support it because we don't have any way of controlling the refuelling of cars. Now, you know, it's private companies doing this. There's no way the tax office can find it. Therefore, the committee cannot support this amendment, nor is Kabmin supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, the amendment number 6 of the Ukrainian national deputy Sergio Osika is voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u119	The committee does not support this. [[11:30:43]] For 372
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u120	‘For’ – 372, correction counted. Amendment No. 7 of the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u121	Well, it's an open lobbying we've voted on now.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u122	Amendment 7. It's counted by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u123	It's not about the bets, if you see it, but it's about what goes into the quarterly period, it's what the motorists themselves asked for, first. And second of all, that. And there is a benefit for citizens who first move to a permanent residence in Ukraine. Now, unfortunately, even when they drive an old car, they get their first registration: they have to pay tens of thousands of dollars. So we offered to set up a benefit for citizens who are moving to Ukraine to a permanent place of residence, and we transferred this tax to a quarterly period. This will be easier for businesses because today they have to pay it up to the 15th of the next month, and there they will have 40 days to pay that tax. So this is, well, kind of a crisis benefit for businesses.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? A vote is taken to support amendment No. 7 of the Ukrainian National Deputy Teryochina, which is considered by the Committee. [[11:32:41.]] For-72 The amendment is not accepted. 8th Amendment, Sergey Osika.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u125	It has to do with what is now supported by the Supreme Council. That is, if it has already been supported, it must also be supported in order to lie about the introduction of this benefit.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, you have come to understand the position of the committee: that the previous amendment of the Osika Supreme Council of Ukraine supported, should be automatically voted in favour of this amendment. I'm voting on the 8th amendment. [[11:33:32]] For 377 Decision taken. 9th Amendment, Sergey Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u127	It's about the demands of our motorists again and again. This is a change to the Code of Budgets, which states that taxes from owners of vehicles are used exclusively for road construction purposes, and no longer are used for any other purpose, so that there are no questions about where the money is spent by motorists.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? A vote is taken on the amendment of the 9th National Deputy of Ukraine, Sergio Teryochina, who. Take off the vote, please. Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u129	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. I ask you to support this amendment, but there are different roads with the clarification, “car routes”. To avoid reading, public reading, and local meaning, national and local.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u130	Same to me. Listen to the logic. This year, 100 percent of the transport community's budget is budgeted by the law on local roads and Euro-12. The next year, the government budget could be these, these comings. But we're not here to, not to mention, what budget. We say that either way, or the local budget, or the central budget. But they have to be used exclusively on roads or on public roads, or locally, according to how the budget is recorded.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, the amendment number 9 Sergey Teryokhina is listed by the committee, but she is voting to support the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Amendment 9, please vote. [[11:35:44]] For 385 Correction counted. Now, please, the committee head's closing statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, I congratulate you on your decision that in the event of the final vote for this bill, as we have now passed the comparative table, we will receive again three reduced taxes on three- and five-litre cars, one-and-a-half times the increased taxes on 1 to 1.8. And we're going to get minus 1 billion 550 million dollars of revenue from local specs, local budgets. It's up to you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, a second reading proposal is put to the vote as a bill of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Taxation from Owners of Means of Transport and Other Self-Cars and Mechanisms. Registration number 3030-1. Please vote. [[11:37:08]] For 390 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Procedure has been announced. [[Registration number 0893]] At the same time, the committee proposes that it be transferred to the next plenary week for final drafting of the bill. Is there no objection? Don't we have to vote? The bill is postponed. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the enforcement of decisions by arbitral tribunals]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Justice's subcommittee, Spanov Dmitry Yuriovich. Please, Dmitri Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u134	The bill was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on first reading on 16 September 2008. It aims to address contentious and problematic issues in the arbitral proceedings. The proposals that were made in the first reading were considered by the Justice Committee in the preparation of the second reading bill. The main purpose of the bill is to protect the property and corporate rights of citizens and legal persons, to exclude the possibility for a public authority to undertake certain actions on a case in which it did not even take part, to deprive arbitral tribunals of the possibility of dealing with cases of recognition of ownership, the recognition of treaties as valid, and, in fact, to remove facts of legal importance. During the work on the bill, 31 amendments were made to the committee, 25 of which were taken into account, one partial amendment, and five were rejected. The bill has been finalized by the Committee in the light of the amendments that have been made, and the positive ideas of the bill introduced by Lavrinović have been retained. The main innovation of the bill is the narrowing of the competence of the arbitral tribunals, namely, the arbitral tribunals, in cases such as disputes over property and land property property properties, the establishment of facts of legal importance, disputes arising from labour relations, disputes arising from corporate relations and cases, decisions on which they may undertake, actions by public authorities, public authorities and their officials. Thus, the use of arbitral courts in raid schemes for use in property and land and corporate relations will be excluded. It was further established that the arbitral judges could not be judges in force. The legal settlement of the place of arbitral review has been improved, and the bill also takes into account all the positive ideas of other bills on the subject, including the Government. The main point is that this bill preserves the institution of arbitral proceedings in Ukraine as an effective tool for the protection of the two persons who have agreed to refer their dispute to the arbitral tribunal. The result of the Committee's work is the comparative table you have set up for second reading. In view of the foregoing, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a second-reading bill and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u135	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the amendments are all taken into account, the author agrees with the committee. No objection to put to the vote? To put to the vote a proposal for a second reading committee and as a whole a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation, registration number 1399. [[on the enforcement of decisions by arbitral tribunals]] Please vote. [[11:41:26]] For 346 The law is passed. A draft Ordinance on State support for sanatorium facilities in which people are being treated and rehabilitated is being announced. It's a second reading. You remember, dear colleagues, we discussed the Sakow problem and then concluded that we should go to a general document. It's handled by the relevant committees. Is there a need to discuss it? Can we vote if we do not object? Is there no objection? Suskevich, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u136	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I want to thank you personally for taking the initiative on this issue. And, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I want to say about the indignation that has taken place. Look, it's March of the month, respectable colleagues. We haven't made a decision in two months that might have solved the problems of sanatorium treatment in advance. We're stuck. I'm asking you very much in the next not to prolong these problems, which are very challenging, what is affected by the treatment, the sanatorium and the health care of the disabled. And I would like to vote on this bill as a whole, this decree as a whole. And, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I think it will take extra personal control of you and the Supreme Council, our committee, for it to be carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, a draft decree is being put to the vote on measures to provide State support to sanatoriums that treat and rehabilitate persons with disabilities for adoption on second reading and in general. [[Registration number 3324]] Please vote. [[11:43:39]] For 395 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, now pay attention! You and I have agreed that we will bring it into the agenda as we can, and we will consider it, and the Supreme Council will decide on decisions regarding the establishment of temporary commissions of inquiry. At the same time, we agreed. Honorary colleagues, who will be included in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2009 and some other laws of Ukraine concerning compensation and approval of district and district councils, are registration number 4151, as well as the draft amending the budget for the part of the financing of ochmatdit, is bill 4025. As well as the inclusion in the agenda of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on excise matters, 4133, 4133-1. We've consulted here, and we have such an offer, to put it into the agenda, not to consider. Well, each and every one of us, we'll vote separately. Then I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda and adoption of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision in the order of registration of 4144 on the establishment of the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the conditions of unlawful detention on 6 April 2005 by the Chief Investigations Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the criminal offence and detention under the custody of the head of the Donetsk District Council of Koleznickov Boris Viktorovich. Please vote. The next decision will be on Naftogazu. [[11:45:49]] For 196 The decision is not taken. Next draft of the ruling. What? What's wrong? Who's to go back to the project, to the question of inclusion in the agenda and consideration of the draft regulation, registration number 4144. Please vote. [[11:46:26]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. The proposal to include in the agenda and to take a decision on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the establishment of an interim commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the question of the situation of violation by officials, the heads of the Security Service of Ukraine of the Constitution of Ukraine and the current legislation of Ukraine in the performance of their duties for inclusion in the agenda and decision-making. [[on events surrounding the functioning of the NAC "Naftogaz Ukraine" and the Ukrainian gas transport system]] Please vote. [[11:47:15.]] For 225 The decision is not taken. We didn't make it? I am betting on the vote to return to the consideration of the inclusion in the agenda of the agenda of the agenda and the decision-making order. [[11:47:46]] For 232 Decision taken. We're back on the agenda. Dear colleagues. Just now, the Chief Legal Authority and the committee representative say we don't have to include the TSC, because the Constitution provides 150 votes per day. Yeah? If so, we will now consider the matter. Then we should put to the vote the inclusion in the agenda and the consideration of the draft Law on Change in the State Budget concerning the financing of Ohmadit. [[Registration number 4025]] Please vote. Please vote. Let's vote, and then we'll look at it from the motives, and we'll put it in the agenda. What might be the motive? [[11:49:00]] For 258. Decision taken. They've put it in order of the day. It is now a day-to-day draft of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009 and some other laws of Ukraine, 4151. [[on the granting of compensation and authorizations to district and district councils]] Please vote. [[11:49:35.]] For-198 The decision is not taken. And now for inclusion in the agenda of the daily bill, registration number 4133, 4133-1, on amending certain laws of Ukraine on the issue of the excise congregation. About getting into the daytime. [[11:50:04]] For 209 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 87 of the Rules, we now have good reason to consider the creation of the TSC, registration number 4144. On the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of illegal detention on 6 April 2005 by the Chief Investigator of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the violation of a criminal case and the detention of the Head of the Donetsk District Council of Kolesnikov Boris Viktorovich. I suggest, my fellow Members, that paragraph 3 be excluded from the question of proportional representation. It is provided for in the Rules. Next, let's define the term of the interim commission of inquiry not 1 year in contravention of the rules, but 3 months in. If necessary, it will continue. And the report of the interim commission here is proposed to listen no later than six months of work. Maybe write it down in May/Red months and vote as a determination. Please, it's Alexander Ephraim's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u138	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Under the Rules, a special or follow-up commission may be established before one year. That's why we wrote the term -- the year of this commission's work, and we ask that we leave what is written really. Now, as far as the commission is concerned. The Committee considered the matter, took a positive decision to approve. The only request is to our colleagues from Our Ukraine, because there is a rule that does not conform to the Rules. You put Moscal's candidature on this commission. He was a figure of the process, what was proposed for consideration by the Commission. So please, give me any other candidature. This comment can be voted on in favour of the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, the commission is scheduled for six months. If that's the offer, let's leave six months. Let us then consider the question of a report or a preliminary report to the extent of readiness when the will of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to be considered. Is there no objection? I'm voting on these proposals to draft a decision for adoption as a decision. Registration number 4144. Please vote. One minute, cancel the vote of Mikola Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u140	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, a respected colleague, is offered instead of Moskal by the faction. Grymczak instead of Moskal, Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u141	With all due respect. Please, Sergei Sass. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u142	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the point is that a national deputy can only be elected to a commission of inquiry or special commission. Vladimir Filipenko, proposed candidate for Vladimir Pilpenka, is invited to the commission of inquiry, which is proposed on questions related to Kolesnik. And to the Naftogaz Commission. We propose to the Naftogazu commission from the faction to include the candidate of the Pavlovski People's Deputy and to exclude the candidate of the People's Deputy, Philippenek. Thank you. And, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the point is that according to the Rules, the commission is still established for a term of not more than one year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, here's the offer. Let's therefore, Your Honor, then this draft of Decree 4144, as the authors insist, and as agreed with the Committee on Rules, the MP. The organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we leave one year, a report no later than six months, as required by the Rules, only exclude paragraph 3 on the proportionality of representation. It's already fixed. And with that, we'll add the name of the national deputy of Crimea. In view of these suggestions, I put it. Moscal is no longer in the project you gave. I'm betting on the vote on the adoption of the draft decree as decrees, registration number 4144. Please vote. [[11:55:04]] For 208 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, please note the draft Decree 4157. I'm going to read it with your permission, because here we've been working so that the document sounds correct, so that it doesn't appear to be incriminating in advance. I read it, which is the operative part: “To form an investigation commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to determine the conditions of compliance by officials, the heads of the Security Service of Ukraine of the Constitution and the current legislation of Ukraine in the performance of their duties. [[on events surrounding the functioning of the NAC "Naftogaz Ukraine" and the Ukrainian gas transport system]] The other one. Identify the main tasks of the Interim Investigation Commission to provide Ukrainian society with reliable information on the investigation of the activities of officials, Ukrainian Security Service leaders in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine and the current legislation of Ukraine in carrying out its duties and clarifying the circumstances surrounding the functioning of the NAC “Naftogaz Ukraine” and Ukraine’s gas transport system. Delete item three because it details the composition of the commission. Third: choose Roman Zvarić as head, Illashova as deputy, the composition of the commission remains. The replacement only goes to Pavlovsky, as the faction has just proposed. At the seventh point, after the word “commission” put a dot and remove it because the commission will determine whether or not there have been corruption. Are you insisting on leaving? Please leave, just so there's no problem. The term of the commission of inquiry is not proposed for six months but for three months. And the previous information from the interim commission of inquiry is to be heard at the session no later than 30 days after the date of the decision. The corresponding 10 should be deleted because it repeats the previous paragraph. Please, Andrew Cosemiakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u144	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, we insist, however, that the text should remain the word “infringement by officials” because the previous decree has been voted “illegal”. So that's normal is illegal detention. So we insist that it be broken. Left.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u145	The difference is that there is already a court decision. The court’s decision established that there had been a violation. But here, dear colleagues, if we write down the investigation of violations, then the commission of inquiry doesn't have to work, we need to listen to the report right away and make decisions, if the violation was, you know? Please. Well, let's stick to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u146	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to tell you this: yesterday we're all in the hands of, well, I have a court decision that obliges the Ukrainian Security Service to suspend any investigative action against those persons who have been detained and called for questioning on which a criminal case has been committed. But this morning, investigators and security officers from the Alpha Security Service, who refused to follow orders from the Ukrainian Security Service, arrived at Ukratransgaz. That's why we think it's a violation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u147	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, your will. Well, let's not discuss it now, we have all the lawyers here. But what I'm saying is, if we want to have a well-kept document, worked out, the court stopped the action, but he didn't give an assessment. If the court gave an assessment, then there would be another question. Are you insisting? I'm going to make this amendment because 150 votes is enough. But, dear fellows, we must make decisions that are irreprehensible, so this amendment is about. In the second paragraph, the word “infringement” remains. With that in mind, I'm voting on a draft decision to adopt it as a decree. [[Registration number 4157]] Please vote. [[11:59:28]] For 391 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! There's an offer to work on. Should I Call a Break? A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u148	There's a question. Dear colleagues, we must now consider the bill – I beg your attention, this is a very serious question! – 3596, 3596-1: amending the Ukrainian Security Service Act. [[on better recognition of the system of subordination and control of activity]] These are the projects of the people’s deputies Karmazin and Oliynik. At the same time, I inform my distinguished colleagues, the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the President of Ukraine sent to the Supreme Council of Ukraine at 11 a.m. today this content: “In accordance with article 106, paragraph 14, of the Constitution, of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am submitting the application for the appointment of the Ombudsman as head of the Ukrainian Security Service. The announcement of this application at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine shall be authorized by the Deputy Head of the Secretary of the Ukrainian President's Office, the President-in-Office of the Security Service of Ukraine Puchin." Dear colleagues, this is indeed a personnel question, but we need to invite a person, to talk, to get all the documents right. So let's do it. Yes, it doesn't need, dear colleagues, the question doesn't need to be considered on the committees. It really is. But you have to invite a person, you have to, if there's interest in a faction, you have to meet in a faction, and then you have to look at it. That's why we're here. I ask that the honourable colleagues find out when he will return from his assignment as head of the Security Service, and we will consider it. What? Please, dear fellows. So now, then, fellow honourable Members, I've informed you to take this into account in the consideration of the relevant bills that I have just announced. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Security Service Act, registration numbers 3596, 3596-1, is being announced for consideration. Reportedly, Ukrainian national deputy Yuri Karmazin, Svetoslav Olijnik. And there will be a report by the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Anatoly Stepanovich Grizzenko. Reporter, please. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u149	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, everyone sees what's going on in the Security Service today. Unfortunately, we have become a laughingstock all over the world. That is how the world’s media commented on what happened yesterday. And that makes us even more distant from Europe. This bill, which I propose, has absolutely no political burden, is passed on to the Constitution in accordance with the system of subordination and control of the Ukrainian Security Service on the part of the President of Ukraine, the National Security and Defence Council, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security and Defence and on the fight against organized crime and corruption, the National Court of Auditors. It is estimated that the Ukrainian Security Service reports to the President and the Supreme Council of Ukraine at least once a year and is responsible for failing to comply with this deadline. The head of the Security Service submits a report to the Supreme Council on his activities last year by February 10 each year. The failure to report within the time limit set by this law is followed by the submission of the President to the Supreme Council for the release of the head of the Security Service and the nomination for the post. Next, I want to say that the abnormal positions that are today contrary to the Constitution today in law, in the operative part of one article 15, for the heads of central government and district administrations, all are appointed by the President, are set forth in the following wording: heads of the central security department, counter-intelligence, military counter-intelligence, protection of statehood and all other district offices, and listed, appointed and released by the head of the Security Service, and heads of the anti-corruption and organized crime departments in the Republic of Crime and Areas.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u150	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u151	Such a serious law, Your Honor, is a complex law. They are appointed and released by order of the head of the Directorate General for Combating Corruption and Organized Crime, which is in agreement with the Supreme Council Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption. The head of the Security Service is supposed to have one first and three deputies, who are appointed and released on their own. The appointment of a deputy head of the Security Service of the Chief Anti-Corruption Office under two existing laws is carried out in agreement with the Supreme Council Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption. It is also the head of the Security Service that proposes to the Supreme Council and the President to issue legislation on the preservation of the secret and so forth. The position on the Security Service College is approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine as Ukraine’s supreme legislative body. And it's suggested that in the first part of article 9, the words "military formation," remove military formations from the Security Service, we see what this could lead to. They must be under control and civilian control must be put in place. By the way, this is entirely true because the Council of Europe wrote to Ukraine about bringing our legislation into line with European requirements. And I would ask you, my fellow Members, regardless of our political orientation, to adopt this law, 3596, and I want to say that the law that was passed, the second law, Collegiate Oljinik and Trigutov, does not conflict completely with this law. And I'm going to ask you to adopt both of these laws, and then work on the first reading, and then work on it and make it even better. They don't contradict each other, they settle a little bit of other questions. Thank you for your attention, Mr. Head and gentlemen of the People's House.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u152	The presentation is open to Revoslav Oliynik. Please, your project.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, you have a proposal for bill 3596-1. In its essence, it does not really conflict with the bill that has just been reported. But it's different because it's much more concise and it's simply called on to eliminate the lawlessness and the resentment that we've been seeing not only yesterday, today and on television, but unfortunately for the last two years. There is no legitimate way of assigning the head of the Ukrainian Security Service. Under the Constitution, the President of Ukraine and the Supreme Council should begin and complete the process of appointing the head of the Ukrainian Security Service. Unfortunately, the understanding of the head of state does not imply that he does not appoint such a leader by royal decree and that he must seek in some elementary way a compromise figure that could find support in the session room. We see some incomprehensible, inconsistent approach to this, resulting in no legitimate head of the Security Service in the country. As a result, the Ukrainian Security Service is operating in an incomprehensible illegal regime, effectively transforming its activities into illegal, illegal. We see that people in masks who don't understand what they're hiding their faces from society are attacking government institutions, they're attacking a miserable woman, as the whole country saw on TV yesterday. And so the bill that is now being proposed is not new. This is the same bill that was already voted out in September in the Supreme Council, but then, under political arrangements, his vote was lifted. So I briefly remind you of what this is about. In the absence of a constitutional appointment in the country, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Supreme Council, as the body that appoints the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, is determined by the acting headship of a proposal no less than a third of the Ukrainian national deputies. This is the first position. Second position. Either the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, or the acting officer appointed by the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u154	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u155	Appoints his intercessors. That is to say, he will be responsible for the work of this State body, not as today, and the Vice-Presidents are appointed by the Secretariat of the President, who is not responsible for any legal, political, no other moral responsibility, in fact holds these half-appointed people on the hook, and therefore they are solely engaged in their tasks. Please support the bills that are being proposed. And I think in this way the Supreme Council will bring order to this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u156	Thank you. Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko, head of the National Security and Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u157	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I don't have a simple mission to report on a draft decision that actually gets into conflict with both the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. But the problem is that real life has been in conflict with the Constitution for two years now, with the laws of Ukraine. And the last example is yesterday's disgraceful events around NAC and today at other businesses and so on. The service comes out of the control of the law, under the control of Parliament, can come out of the control of the Head of State. The president's acting like I'm not quite clear. He introduces the Twitter girl at the end of 2007, but then in no way insists on his acceptance. Then he brings it back again, takes it off without explanation. The same is true of us now without explanation. Therefore, it is necessary to make decisions from the point of view of responsibility, realizing that there is no constitutionally correct decision. No one can force the President to do it in time. So our committee considered both bills. At Karmazin's first colleague, we propose to finalize this bill in conjunction with that project that over the six months worked with our committee's security services, and to take into account all the constructive suggestions of colleague Karmazin. Now it is not accepted in the first reading. According to the bill, which contains five coauthors, we now propose that we approve of it, taking into account all that I have said, but only in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u158	Thank you, Anatoly Stepanovich. Dear colleagues, please sign up for discussion. Two in, two in. Please put the name of the national deputies on the board. National deputy Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u159	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u160	You'll have to sign up for it now, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, the need to adopt this bill has matured for a long time. Look, please, what is happening at the Ukrainian Security Service right now is what's left of the Ukrainian Security Service, who is now in charge of the BAF, businessman Horoshkovsky, former policeman Tiberius Durdinac, or economist, also at the border, from Svetlana Neznowa's business. And as a result of their activities, the BSS has actually completely lost its assets, and by the way, we're going to be creating a temporary commission of inquiry to investigate the fact that the BSS has lost almost all of its assets. Sold conspiracy apartments, sold dormitories, hospitals, sold hotels, in general, according to the latest information, the main building in Vladimirsk, 33 will soon be transferred to the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, and the Ukrainian security officers who work there are talking about it and who are in pain for this service. That's why we need to, we need to take a closer look at this bill and put it in order, or Ukraine will soon be out of its Security Service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u162	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, our constituents! If I had someone in 2004, when I was standing in the 100th constituency, where I was shooting, where in the afternoon I had to spray the safes to get ballots out of there, if someone told me we were going to live to that time, I'd think it was just a very angry, very quirky joke. In fact, we live in a country that we can call the country the other way around. Today it's very easy to make a career in Ukraine, to become, say, a governor, just to stand up against Julia Timoshenko and stoop against her and tomorrow you'll be appointed governor in the area because you're against the government and you're against Julia Timoshenko. You want to work in the Security Service or as your first deputy, or even as your head, please make a public statement against Julia Timoshenko, and tomorrow you will have a brilliant career. That's what we have in our country today. Which, frankly, Horoshkovsky's attitude to the Security Service is that diletters work. And today we have what the Security Service does for the young patriotic boys who have come to serve there. They're given a job: do something like this, like a businessman. And they tear up the ground beneath them, they store huge compromises, they lay on the desk of the Security Service and everything, and then quietly. Then they take a copy to this businessman. They're asking how much it costs. And it's all over the place. Because of the fact that we have a suspended head of the Security Service today. I don't have anything personal against Nadwiczenko. He's a decent, intelligent man. But he's being deliberately hanged so that he can't take any step anywhere, because only he'll take that step the other way; he'll be released at this very moment without Parliament, without us, without anything. That's why I'm convinced. The situation itself has moved us. The rabbit doesn't scream, for God's sake. So you're gonna jump in the hall, then you're gonna yell something. When hunting wolves, rabbits run first. Take the line, John, against me. But this bill must be adopted. I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u164	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u165	I'm done. I'm going to say to Gretchen that you can't take him out of your hooves right now. We have to give you the opportunity to go through the second reading after all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u166	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there was a statement that they had not been able to register or registered. Whoever wants against this bill, please. Now there's two against it. Please sign up. Only the red button has to be pressed. On the board, please. Viacheslav Kirilenko. It's gonna be a replica, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u167	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine! ” Here we were speaking, mentioned in 2005 very far away from us. So I want to say that in 2005, when the degree reached the highest voltage, for example, in Donetsk, when a forum of democratic forces was held, when all those who were in power crossed the line to defend the opposition forces, more specifically, in order to defend the security forces' special forces, who took on a tight environment of those deputies who came to Donetsk to meet in a forum of democratic forces. They may have had a different belief in those battles of special purpose. But they knew there was a state, there is order, there is law. That's the first one. The other one. No one can use strong structures to determine political or business relations. It's an axiom. Neither the U.S.S.A., nor the U.S.O., nor the police should run and engage in political or business orders. And here I want to say that we in the "For Ukraine" MP group don't care if it's gas there, let's say the former "One Energy Systems" or the "Ukri Rosenergo" gas, we don't care. [[EESU]] But when the MPs, knowing that no one touches them with their fingers, squander the fighters of the specialty, the whole world laughs at us. Every citizen knows that no one can protect him when some hoodlums with MP badges come and show the powerlessness of the Ukrainian state around the world. You need to think more about your behavior than anything else in this key. And these people who have introduced these bills, they want the service of this one, who's still barely breathing on the incense, to break it down. Because any member of the National Security Service or any other political force will want to be in charge of the Security Service. Would you please tell her that she's gonna be left with something? There will be nothing left of it, and it will be a comfort to the outside forces to destroy the Security Service. But then you'll carry it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u168	Dear colleagues! I beg of you, Your Honor, one has spoken against. Write down again who else will speak against it. Please sign in. I just asked them to check the system. Please log in. It's got a name tag on it. Matthew Anatoly, please. Dear colleagues, two for, two for, but please, calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u169	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" block. Dear colleagues! Of course, what is happening in the state today is a disgrace. And it is clear that the Supreme Council, as a higher legislature, would have to respond with dignity. But once again, I emphasize that it is worth reacting to. If we properly respond to the violation, we will never be as disorderly as we are in Ukraine today, we will not be cut short, it will only spread. I think that the fact that we're politicizing the power structures is the first answer to why we have this situation in the state. We need to make it clear that the politicization of the power structures is our provocation with you, for which we are responsible today. The other one. We today need to understand that the power structures are by no means meant to have one nature of creation. Once the forces have one nature of creation, they will only do what they can to support corruption and to support the institution that sets them up accordingly. So if the Ministry of Internal Affairs is really a government structure, then the Security Service can't have the very nature of creation, like the Ministry of Internal Affairs or, let's say, the Public Prosecutor's Office. In this way we have no right today to monopolize by the forces of the Supreme Council all the power structures, because there will be no interpretation of them. And that's why we don't have the right to vote for these laws because they're not constitutional. We need to understand that the step towards unconstitutionality should never be demonstrated by the Supreme Council, then this Supreme Council will be respected. Otherwise, we have a vacchanal that will only get deeper. I urge not to vote, but to seek a solution in a legitimate constitutional way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u170	The discussion is over. The name John the Rabbit was mentioned. Replica, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u171	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Here, a person who pretends to be an intelligent person who would have the truth and morality to be decisive in his position has tried to call people who really care about the institutions of the state in terms of Ukrainian statehood. So I have to answer this. If the committee head comes out and says that these bills conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine, but we have to find a way out of this situation. Dear moralists, in paws I mean, you'll never get out of this situation in an unconstitutional, illegal way. And this isn't the first time all of these proposals are coming up in the hall today. You're just trying to sort out the power structures by forgetting what the Constitution is, and it's very wrong to be observantly aware of what the principle of the distribution of power is. If the Supreme Council even gives birth to the Cabinet of Ministers or other structures, it doesn't mean that it should be in the operational office to manage it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u172	Thank you very much for the last name of Cosemiakin, as the general of the SBU was called, please, a replica. Just don't call your last name again.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you of the following: He must have forgotten what was wrong with the parliamentary badge and without weapons to protect the Ukrainian people. But what I want to tell you is that when they shoot and show on TV that someone's been hit on the knee there, and they show that, and you know why it's done, but when no one's filming it, you know how people, those boys, those fingers, they call them, they're wearing masks. And you remember that as it was in the Constitutional Court if you were there. If they were not, let your colleagues remind you of whom they had broken their noses and who. That's the first one. And secondly, what I'm saying is that we feel sorry for these boys in machine masks, and these people who put faces down on the floor yesterday, that their kids say what to tell the kids of the guy who's sitting in the I.V.S. illegally? That's why I'm calling for a vote in favour of this law because this is the future of this service. If we don't, she'll die.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u174	Thank you. Question completed. Please, Kirilenko's line. Dear colleagues, please don't name names anymore, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u175	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine!” I don't know where the venerable Andriy Anatoliyovich was, for example, in the 90s or 89s, when the people who sit in our faction, in our group, chose Ukrainian independence, I don't know. And finally, I don't even care. But I'm surprised why a staff member of the security forces protects the MPs who fought in front of the world, humiliated and abused our Ukrainian Special Forces. That's what surprises me. And I can't find anything to explain such a position except a banal political situation. Dear colleagues, it's not about who's right and who's wrong, it's about how now we're going to destroy the power structures of the Ukrainian state in general and protect the ordinary Ukrainian will be no one.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u176	Ladies and gentlemen, we'll be right with you. No one else was named by their names. All of it. Please! Dear colleagues, we have two in favour, two in favour. Dear colleagues, the guilt of what is happening, let's face it, lies entirely on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because when part of one is convenient, it supports provocative action. Inconveniently, it does not support. So let's always take a principled position and not keep political accounts in the session room today, because in this development, with our dissolution, tomorrow they will come here to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So let's put it this way, let's say that against the backdrop of this opposition at the level of higher institutions, the law enforcement system is now becoming uncontrollable. And we need to make the right decisions within the framework of a valid Constitution, I'm stressing to you. Therefore, according to the Rules and taking into account the discussion, and taking into account the committee's decisions, I put to the vote the first sentence is the adoption on the basis of draft Law 3596, by Yuri Karmazin. [[May I have your attention, please?]] At the same time, I am reminding the committee's recommendation to return the subject to the right of the legislative initiative to work. But in accordance with the Rules, I vote on adoption as the basis of the draft law. [[Registration number 3596]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:00:28]] For 124 The decision is not taken. Now I'm voting on the basis of the draft law. [[Registration number 3596-1, author. authors are national deputies Oljinik and Treguchev]] The proposal by the committee for the adoption of this project as a basis. 3596-1. [[13:01:10]] For 231 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! It was. I'm asking for your attention! There was a proposal for a committee on acceptance as a basis. Please, is there a committee head? microphone. If the committee offers and there's no objection, I'll put it in. Let's follow the Rules. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u177	Dear colleagues! There is no way to accept it in general right now. During the discussion there were a number of observations, as was the observation of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. So, in principle, it was an agreement with the drafters of the bill that we will not vote in general. I insist on that, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, since there is a committee proposal, and the head of the committee is a national deputy, and he denies it, we can. I'm begging you! So let's make one decision that would consolidate the hall, have the committee prepare for the next plenary week to work on a reduced procedure. No objections? So the decision is made. Should I vote? No, we're good, we're good, we're good. The question of the appointment of out - of - turn local elections is called for consideration. Upper Sergei Petrovich, head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u179	Honorable Predestination! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government at its meetings on February 18 and March 4, 2009, discussed the assignment of out-of-office local elections to 18 local authorities, 17 villages and one village. It is suggested that decisions be considered on the appointment of out - of - turn rural and village heads. One decision is made in the case where a decision has been taken by the court, two judgements, by decision of the appropriate council, four are death cases and 11 in response to a statement of wish. The Supreme Council’s Office in connection with the local authorities, the local authorities, believes that it is appropriate to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be appointed by way of successive election of the identified heads. Based on article 85, paragraph 30, of the Constitution of Ukraine, part three of article 14, part two and sixth of article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Village Heads, in the event of a permanent suspension of the powers of rural, rural, urban, municipal, and regional elections, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is appointed on Sunday, no later than 70 days before the election day, the committee approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the above-mentioned local elections for Sunday, 24 May 2009, by adopting the relevant decisions given to you all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I'm going to read the draft decree, and the Supreme Council has to be determined. On the appointment of the successive elections of the Rohmanian village head, the Rohmanov village council of the Ternopil district district. Registration number 4097. Please vote. [[13:05:03]] For 312 Decision taken. Draft Decision No. 4097-1: the appointment of the successive elections of the Mikhailian village head, the Mikhailiv Rural Council of the Bogoslav district of the Kyiv region. Please vote. [[13:05:32]] For 326 Decision taken. Draft Decree 4097-2 on the appointment of the successive elections of the Priville Rural Head of the Priville Rural Council of the Slavonian region of the Donetsk region. Please vote. [[13:06:00]] For 337 Decision taken. Draft decree 4097-3 on the appointment of the Malmoocranian Rural Head of the Malmoocrán Rural Council of the Mostic Region of the Lviv Region. Please vote. [[13:06:30.]] For 327 Decision taken. Draft Decree 4097-4 on the appointment of the successive elections of the Sergiyov Rural Head of the Rural Council of the Bilopil district of Sumi district. [[13:06:57]] For 322 Decision taken. Draft decree 4097-5 on the appointment of the successive elections of the Sukholutsky Rural Head of the Sukholutsk Rural Council of the Visgorod region of the Kyiv region. Please vote. [[13:07:26]] For 341 Decision taken. Draft Decision 4097-6 on the appointment of the alternate elections of the Luchanski Rural Head of the Rural Council of the Kosovo District of Ivano-Frankov Region, registration number 4097-6. Please vote. [[13:07:54]] For 199 The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, if we do not accept it, there is no way that elections can take place. It's a village council, there's just no head of the village council. So I'm asking you, let's go back to this decision, it's not political. On your return to review of Decree 4097-6, please vote. [[13:08:34]] For 226 We're back. I'm voting on the draft Decree 4097-6 on the appointment of the alternate elections of the Luchani village head, the Luchan village council of the Kosovo District of Ivano-Frankiv region. Please vote. [[13:09:01]] For 235 Decision taken. A draft decision of 4097-7 on the appointment of consecutive elections of the Kalinov village head, the Kalinov village council of the Basilkov district of Kiev, is being put to the vote. Please vote. [[13:09:32]] For three hundred Decision taken. Project Decision 4097-8 on the appointment of the successive elections of the Zalima Rural Head, the Zalima Rural Council of the Balakli District of Kharkiv Region. Please vote. [[13:10:00]] For 351 Decision taken. Project Decision 4097-9 on the appointment of consecutive elections of the Šolokhov village head, Scholokhov village council of the Nikopol district of Dnipropetrov region. [[13:10:29]] For 353 Decision taken. Draft decree 4097-10 on the appointment of the successive elections of the Lewkovsky Rural Head, the Lewkow Village Council of the Vynnitz district. [[13:10:55]] For 358 Decision taken. Draft Decision 4097-11 on the appointment of the successive elections of the Prutov Rural Head, the Prutov Rural Council of the region of Svetienne, Ivano-Frankov. Please vote. [[13:11:23]] For-360 Decision taken. Draft Decision 4097-12 on the appointment of the Kuliski Rural Head Elections, Kulizhska Rural Council of the Latin Region of Winnitsk Region. [[13:11:51]] For 362 Decision taken. Draft decree 4097-13 on the appointment of the consecutive elections of the Lebedinian Rural Head, the Lebedinian Rural Council of the Novoazov Region of the Donetsk Region. [[13:12:18]] For 348 Decision taken. Draft Decision 4097-14 on the appointment of the consecutive elections of the Krechovica Rural Head, the Krekhovicka Rural Council of the Rognyativ Region of Ivano-Frankiv region. [[13:12:46]] For 364 Decision taken. Draft Decision 4097-15 on the appointment of the successive elections of the Vrontske Rural Head of the Vrontske Rural Council of the New York area of the Mikolai Region. [[13:13:12]] For 367 Decision taken. Draft Decision 4097-16 on the appointment of the successive elections of the Verbkow village head Verbkow village council of the Pavlovrad district of the Dnipropetrov region. [[13:13:40]] For 256 Decision taken. Draft decision 4097-17 on the appointment of the new Ukrainian head of the New Ukraine Rural Council of the Blackobai district of the Cherka region. [[13:14:07]] For 369 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Come on, Donny, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u181	Good afternoon. For reasons of vote. A few days ago, the Supreme Council of Ukraine voted in favour of cancelling the elections to the Ternopil District Council, citing this to an economic situation, which has put democratic transformations at risk in the country, as presidential elections and elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine can now be annulled. Today, after voting in favour of the heads of the village and local councils, and rightly voted, the Supreme Council of Ukraine bore witness to the double standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u182	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! As a matter of fact. I'm announcing a draft regulation, and then you'll talk about it. Draft Decision on the consent of materials to choose the location of the plots. [[Registration number 4041]] Bevanko Valeriy Fedorovich, please head of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u183	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has sent materials for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to choose the location of the plots of land, which, according to the requirements of articles 150 and 151 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, are maintained by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to the materials provided, it is envisaged to agree on the location of the plots for: First. Flooding of the Dnistrovski GAES buffer water tank to the 77.1m shareholding company “Dnistrovska GAES”. The other one. Expansion of the career of the C. East-Reschetilian lineage to the closed stockholders' association “Reschetil Steel Plant”. Third. Development of the fourth line of the Murzinski Caolin career open to the Watutinian combination of fireworks. Four. The construction of 12 operating wells of the ‘Ukranafta’ VAT for the oil and gas pipelines of the ‘Ochtirkanaftegaz’ plant. And the fifth. The location of manufacturing areas from the extraction of the Fresor Torf Society with limited responsibility “Torf Land Ukraine” in the Torfovna-1 and “Morrno-2” area. At its meeting on February 3, the committee considered the materials listed and noted that they were fully in line with the requirements of Earth’s legislation. They comply with the requirements of article 151 of the Ukrainian Code of Land with relevant executive authorities and local self-governance by landowners and land users, conservation and sanitation authorities, city and architecture and cultural heritage. The materials provided have undergone state - owned expertise and are valued positively. As a result of the review of the material, you have prepared and distributed an appropriate draft regulation specifying the area of the location of the land and the conditions for its transfer to use, and the committee has prepared information on their acceptance by the relevant authorities. Therefore, I don’t think it’s necessary to dwell on each of the objects in detail. As far as the material is concerned, I'm just going to point out that the materials listed are on the committee and that everyone who wants the Ukrainian national deputies can get to know you at a convenient time. In view of the above, the Committee proposes that the draft decision be taken as a basis and as a whole as a determination. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u184	No objections? Can we put it to a vote? Yes. Please sign two in, two in. There's a recording going on. I remind you, if one faction is written for and the other one is written against, then it's clear that one will be written for. That's how the system works. Please show me on the board. Oleg Lazko and Valentina Matviev.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u185	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Valery Fedorovich, of course, the question that you are now reporting is important, and it needs to be considered and made. But there are a list of objects, hundreds of them, and you suggest that we stop and vote on both the issue of withdrawal for power stations and the question of careers for some. Or O.O. That's why there's an offer. Or individually vote, and if not, then send the bill for rereading, for there is a very large list of objects and every proposal needs to be carefully considered, for there are no exceptions and possibilities for lobbying the interests of private entities. Moreover, when you refer to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Cabinet of Ministers submitted this list in May 2008. Today we have March 2009. The situation has changed considerably. Hence, each subject needs to be considered. If not, then read again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u186	Thank you. Valentina Matthew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u187	Please pass the word to Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u188	Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u189	Thank you, Valentin Grigorovich. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! I remind you that a similar bill has been discussed with you and made the right decision. We sent him where he needed to be sent. Torfors are now re-emerging, see the last paragraph in the fifth paragraph. Lobby again. The fact that one of the colleagues here told us how in the Plains region, where he worked, how bad people live, would have to give the pears to some private entrepreneur for 20 years to dig up everything that could be compromised in this territory, made as much as you can earn, thanked us for such a unwise and shortsighted decision. I remind you again, this is a problem we've been looking at. So, yes, indeed, there are some things in this list that are worth supporting. Therefore, there is no need to vote all at once, but it is essential that we approach it in principle. 'Cause I'm gonna say it again and again. I don't want to blame everyone in general, but I'm sure 90 percent behind these lands, there's the mafia, there's people who make money. There are those who want to take the land, the more the agricultural land, in order to resolve their leathery, private interests. Therefore, with all responsibility, I call for a separate vote on each object. Where private structures are concerned, they should not be given land as an agricultural assignment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u190	Please, committee? Committee position? Valery Fedorovich, please again.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u191	I would like to answer, first of all, Oleg Valeriyovich Láško, a national deputy, on the ground that there are so many subjects. Total subject 5. There is a large list of Naftogazu wells. Hence, there is much to be said about it. But the subjects of ownership are 5. If we don't need it, I don't know who else might need it. The point is that, according to article 150-151, when it comes to the grill that we must give up for the mining work, we must agree with the Supreme Council. Because all the agreements they've been through, I've already read to you the organs in which these consents are made. We have a list of these. He is on page 13 of all the agreements that these five companies have made. And they all happened. The final agreement is the Supreme Council. We can vote five times each, but we must agree that if we want Ukraine’s economy to develop. Adam Ivanovich, this is the same for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u192	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have considered this document. The Supreme Council brought him back for work. At the same time, let us discuss each position separately. What we're going to do here is we're going to figure out where it's going. Because it may not seem to be good for someone, so he wants to adjust. That's the first one. The other one. One and a half pages of the consent of the village council, the district council. If we don't trust the local authorities, and what we think we can do here on our own, we have to work on the committee. Come to the committee, make the appropriate arguments. And now we're going to demonstrate either political or personal sympathy. So that's the offer. I'll put it to a vote. If the Supreme Council is not determined, then we take responsibility. The papers were all given out. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll do as the committee suggests. Ladies and gentlemen, I take the vote as suggested by the committee. For God's sake, let's take it as a basis and send it to the committee. I am voting on the basis of a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the agreement of the selection materials at the site of the land. Registration number 4041. Please vote. Based on the base. [[13:25:13]] For 158. The decision is not taken. I'll put the bill first again, please. Vote again first Not every position. If, on a basis, to the committee, make suggestions to the committee, vote, shall we vote or what? [[13:25:36]] For 276 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's do it again. A draft regulation on the change of the borders of the city of Chernivci and the region of the region of Chernivetsec is being announced. Please, Sinchenko Viktor Mikolaiovich, deputy head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u193	Honorary Presidency, distinguished colleagues, the Montenegrin District Council, on behalf of the city council, addressed the Supreme Council of Ukraine with concern about a change in the borders of the city of Chernivci. The project to change the boundaries of the city of Chernivtsev and the region of Globick was developed by the State Enterprise “Chernivitz Research and Project Institute of Land Management”, taking into account the actual state of land use. It is proposed to include in the city of Chernivts 29.85 acres [29.85 ha] of land that is in the knowledge of the Korowia Rural Council of the Deep District, which were previously transferred according to existing legislation to expand the city’s cemetery. The question of changing the boundaries of the city of Chernivci and the region of Globicki is in line with existing legislation and is supported at the Koro session. of the village council, the Dublin District, the Montenegrin City and District Council, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government at its meeting on 27 December 2008 reviewed the draft Supreme Council Regulation on the Change of the Borders of the Towns of Chernivitsi and the Glubic Region of the Chernivecki Region and recommended that the Supreme Council take a decision on the basis and in general. We ask the National Deputies to support the community of the city of Chernivci.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u194	Dear colleagues, no warning? Is it? Please, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u195	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, those of you who have a bearing on how the land of agriculture is transferred to the city fund, know why it is done. This is done for the same purpose: they take away land to sell these lands under individual construction and sell them. It is not the village council that will earn the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land, but it will be for those in the city who issue these permits. There is absolutely no argument in those documents, and 29 hectares must be passed on to the town of Cherniv. Just like that, pass it on. Perhaps we should argue. And those who have provided you with these documents need to get to know them and the MPs -- for what purpose, for what use? Then we will consciously know what and how? And so they just drew us a table, they drew us a geography of the districts, they drew the diagram, and they took from 10 or more of the country councils, they took the land into the city. I understand every city head that's come to me now, too, that they're for having more land. But I ask you to vote with balance and not to support this decision at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u196	People's deputy to Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u197	Thank you. The sand, the faction of the regions. I'm a great colleague, and I'm talking to Adam Ivanovich. Adam Ivanovich, if you have this scheme in your hands, please look down there, there's an embroidered – a small piece of land. Indeed, I had a conversation with the head of the Deep District State Administration, Pachuk Peter Volodymyrovich, and he confirmed that this is really the very piece of land that is used under the cemetery! There's the only cemetery that works today in the Chernivites. There are deputies from different factions, there's a deputy of Haszuk from BUTU who can confirm this, there's Papiev, who's from Cherniv, everyone knows that this is the cemetery of the town of Chernivci. It was handed over a long time ago, but people have been buried there for a couple of years, but we need to get it from the Corowia Rural Council and the city council balance. There is a decision of both the Cornish Rural Council, and the City Council, and the District Council. We have to vote in favour. Thank you. It's not about building, no one at the cemetery is going to build their houses, as they say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u198	National deputy of Hassuk. These are the houses that measure us all. National Deputy Hassuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u199	Dear Head! Dear fellow MPs! I ask your attention to the fact that these are the lands that are really taken to the cemetery for the cemetery of the city, because the people are dying. And believe that there will be places there for both the BIT, and for the regionals, and for the communists, and even for the outsiders. Please vote in favour. There's nowhere to hide people!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The point is, dear colleagues, that the discussion of this issue was due to the fact that it was not clear enough to suggest that it was under the cemetery. And because of the noise, not everyone heard it. It is now quite obvious that we have found out all the circumstances, no differences. So, dear colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal of a committee to adopt a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a decree to change the boundaries of the city of Chernivci and the region of Czernovetsec. Please vote. [[13:32:16]] For 362 I'll take the order. A draft Judgment Order 2008 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was announced for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism, local self-government. Andrew Mikhailovich Najdionov, Secretary of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, in 2003, the Supreme Council established the Supreme Council of Ukraine Award for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism, local self-government. A total of 10 such prizes are awarded annually, each weighing only 1,360 bracelets. In 2004-2005, the prize was awarded by the Supreme Council, but unfortunately, the Committee's proposals have not been reviewed for three consecutive years. In 2006-2007, due to early elections, you know, it was not the turn of the 2008 elections, although a draft decision on this issue was made on 17 June last year. The Committee, having considered the documents submitted by the regional councils and all Ukrainian youth society organizations, has agreed with the requirements of the Supreme Council Decision on the award of the Youth Prize for the contribution of Parliamentarianism and Local Government, proposes to award a prize for the past year to 9 candidates and 1 public organization. Specific names and positions are listed in the draft. Please support the Committee's proposal to award a prize and adopt the draft order as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u202	Dear colleagues, no objection? Please sign up, your honors, two in favour, two in front. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Vladimir Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u203	Please give the word to Mr. Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u204	Vladimir Yavorowski, microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u205	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished voters! Vladimir Mikhajlovich, because it's a really solid Supreme Council Award -- it's not some kind of, say, rajycentral, there, rural and so on -- because I think it's just, well, unethical not to name the names of these people. If we condemn this award to them, please name it, and let the people in Ukraine know who is being awarded the prize.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u206	Thank you. National Deputy Karpuk, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u207	Vladimir Karpuk, deputy faction “For Ukraine!” Our MP faction, the group will vote in favour of this decree. Indeed, many young people are now working in local governments. They are generally people of different thinking, more advanced, modern, who can actually bring a lot of new things into the development of parliamentaryism and local self-government. And here I also wanted to make the point that Vladimir Aleksandrovitch said that if these names were to be sounded, they would be put on the record so that the whole country would know who they were going to give them right away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u208	Adam Martinyuk, Communist faction, please
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u209	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. I support colleagues who say that, indeed, such a prize should be given, especially that it is the decision of the Supreme Council. And I support the offer of those who say they need to make a sound. For perhaps not everyone has before him a list of these future laureates. So I'd like to draw your attention, dear colleagues, think about it, we're giving 10 prizes, of these 10 prizes, 2 prizes going into the Plains region. From 10 to 2 in the Plains region, I don't want to offend the Plains region, like any other, I don't want to say that there are no young, talented people working in local government or even in government. But still, when the committee is considering such proposals, it has to be one way, with some understanding. Well, you can't give 10 bonus 2 per area, it doesn't matter which area, it's 2 times 1. So I suggest you go back to the first reading and give it to those areas that deserve to be read again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u210	Please make a proposal to the committee and please give us the names of the candidates for the laureate.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u211	So, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the 2008 award of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism and local self-government. The Supreme Council decrees: to award the 2008 Supreme Council of Ukraine Prize for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism and local self-government: Therapist Sergio Alexandrovich is the head of the government of the All-Ukrainian Youth Association of Gifted Youth, a graduate of the National Teachers' University of Dragomanova; Comrade Andriy Viktorovich, city head of the City of Warfare of the Bilopil district of Sumsk district; Shabunin Vitalia Viktorovich, deputy of the city district of Ravenna, adviser to the head of the district administration; Korniychuku Alexandro Vasilovich, deputy of the Ravenna District Council, first deputy city chief of the Ostróg District; Timothy Paul Anatoliyovich, Head of the Strategic Development of the City and Information Technology Department of the Executive Committee of the Melitopol City Council, President of the Youth Social Organisation Euroklub Melitopol; As well as the Building of Natalia Vasilovni, the Sterchen Rural Head of the region of the region of Cherniewets; Helsin Vladislav Grigorovich, Deputy of the Donetsk District Council, President of the Football Foundation of the Donetsk region of Olympia; Black Alexi Yuriovich, Deputy Minister, Head of Youth Policy and Gender Equality of the Ministry for Youth, Family and Gender Policy of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea; Rudenko Vadim Borisovich, head of the Secretariat of the Ukrainian Youth Forum, head of the Ukrainian Youth MPs Association and the Kirovograd Regional Children's Parliament, is an organization. The solution. Committee proposal: accept as a basis and as a whole. On the question of what two Plains. Two candidates from one area, I want to go to all of them, because each one represents a particular region.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u212	Yes, please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u213	They're all presented, and the proposals should be received. You know about this award, about the verdict, I think you could either submit your organizations or the political powers that support an organization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u214	Dear colleagues, simply because the decision of the Supreme Council had been taken in 2003 and then failed to return to the subject, the interest in the Supreme Council was lost. And it goes like this: Those who have risen up before are the same and the boots. So all of us need to look to find and support young people who will be near the country’s leadership in the future. Now, given that we don't do the audit, I'd like to support the committee and accept this document as a whole. Is there no objection? I'm proposing to the committee for your consideration, honourable colleagues, on the adoption of the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the 2008 verdict of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism, local self-government for adoption as a basis and as a whole as a law as a regulation. [[Registration number 2648]] Please vote. [[13:40:50]] For 197 Thank you. The decision is not taken. Too bad, dear colleagues, it's not politics. I think we'll give the committee a commission, have the committee rework and bring it to the Supreme Council. We didn't make it. I'm voting back on draft regulation 2648. [[13:41:28]] For 217 The decision is not taken. To read again, taking into account the suggestions that have just been made here. Please vote. [[13:41:51]] For 366 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we now have to consider the draft law, as we agreed, we have included in the agenda of the meeting. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009. [[on the financing of OHMATDIT Hospital]] Reporter, Deputy Minister of Finance, Matvijčik Vladimir Makarovich, please. And prepare for the committee of Eugene Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u215	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, I think the mentioned question is so consolidating, so I won't waste much time. I'd like to report the following in detail. The Ukrainian Children's Hospital "Ohmatdit" special hospital "Ohmatdit" is granted national status. [[Ukrainian - Apologize]] The granting of this status is based on the specific activity of this hospital, which is essentially one of the state’s institutions for the provision of high - tech, high - value medical care to children with complex pathologies. National status determines the need for adequate funding for a hospital that is not fully funded at present, at the expense of the funds provided for the Ministry of Health. Thus, with a view to providing adequate financial security for the hospital, the bill is designed to increase expenditure for the Ministry of Health in the amount of 28 million dollars. The adoption of the bill will allow for increased hospital expenses for the purchase of medical equipment, for the purchase of medicines for other purposes, and so forth. Taking into account the noted, distinguished national MP, I ask you to support the bill, to vote in favour of it as a matter of law as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u216	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Eugene Kirilchuk, First Deputy Head of the Budget Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u217	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Budget Affairs at its meeting considered this bill on February 19th, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, and decided almost unanimously to support this bill as essential for the activities of the National Children's Hospital, where up to 7,000 operations are carried out annually in four departments, with rare operations, and that many children with serious disabilities come out of this hospital as full citizens of Ukraine. The committee pointed out that....which also supports the decision to be made in this room. I think there are no political problems here, and all the MPs unanimously support this bill to help this hospital, which the Ministry of Health seems to have forgotten a little bit about when it comes to budgeting. In addition, honourable colleagues, at the same time, the committee proposes to balance the state budget and to reconcile the bill with its adoption in the current year of the Act on the Increase in Expenditure on the Recovery of Children at the International Children's Centre “Artek” and “Youth Guard” it is necessary to provide the Committee on Budget Issues, together with the General Legal Administration of the Supreme Council, with a protocol to introduce editorial technical and legal clarifications into the text of the legislation and Appendices, in particular in detailing the summary funding and expenditure of the State budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u218	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u219	Before the law is passed for signature by the Head of the Supreme Council. This is also true of another bill, but such an assignment should be given by the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u220	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if you'd like to sign up, a sensitive question, please, in favor and against, if you have, let's make a statement. Please put the name of the national MPs on the board. Mikhailo Chechetov Alexander Pecklesenka is handing over the right to speak, isn't he? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u221	Nestor, I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, the issue that we are considering is very important, the Ohmatdet Clinical Hospital is unique in terms of what it is doing, I know this team, I know the chief doctor, and of course we will support it, but that is not the solution, because the Party of the Regions insists on a comprehensive budget review. What we're doing today is like treating a terminally ill person with green. Believe me, if we don't take a comprehensive look at the budget, we're all gonna get our asses kicked by a skipper. We therefore call for a comprehensive review of the budget. And second moment. In order for this to happen, let us include today the same unique medical centre as the Donetsk regional clinical hospital. Thousands of operations are also being done there. The price of the question is only 15 million. Most members of the budget committee support this proposal. Vladimir Mikhailovich, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u222	Lillia Grigorovitch, please, instead of his colleague Arjevetin, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u223	Lilia Grigorovich, MP for Ukraine! Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! No doubt this question will be the consolidator who will obtain the maximum number of votes. There is no doubt that the Ohmatdit Hospital has been approached by all the deputies of all factions for years because there are children in the district with complex diseases who need the highly specialized help they provide in this clinic. The granting of national status certainly requires changes to the budget, which we will now do. But speaking not only of this case, but of the reference here by colleagues to making general changes to the budget, which we also support, I would like to call on our opposition, if we want to make changes to the budget, let's make them realistic. Because in fact, they all say, let's make some changes to the budget, and when we have to write a real budget, they suddenly mention that they're opposition and they say, no, we're not going to write real numbers in the budget. So let's give the budget a general one that needs to be changed, put off, and make changes to the financing of the Okhmatdit Children's Hospital. And I think it'll bring the whole room together.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u224	Alla Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u225	Alexandrovsky. Please pass the word to Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u226	Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u227	Thank you, Hello. Martinuk is a faction of Communists. Dear colleagues and distinguished voters! Without a doubt, I am convinced that the entire session room is supportive of this fine offer. Yet we really only patch holes. It's very good that we are now and I see, the more that there is here a combination of our MP initiative with what the Cabinet of Ministers supports, that is, the hope that this law, these changes will not be made. It's a good thing that we somehow found 28 million for this specialized badly needed hospital. Although I don't think it's supposed to be 28, at least more orderly. But these same arrangements are needed not only for one hospital taken separately, but for all our medical care. Because unfortunately, in society, especially in Kiev's hero city, there are a lot of high-ranking uncles who say you need to make medicine your whole salary. When it's paid, it'll be beautiful. I think each of us understands that if we do paid medicine, we'll pay twice. For once we will pay for what we have done, and the second time we will pay for our Slovenian nature. Because if you're going to the doctor, you have to, and we're already acting like this, and I think it's right, somehow to thank the person who did you right. So let's support this bill. But we need to talk more broadly, really, not just about a separate hospital, in general about the health care system in our country and do everything to make it as guaranteed in our Basic Law - the Constitution - free. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u228	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The proposal was made by Alexander Pecklusenko, 15 million. I realized that the government faction had already found 15 million, please, Oleg Lazko. We would like to vote for that decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u229	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, the government faction is not looking for either 15 million or 150 million. The government faction supports bills introduced by the government aimed at improving the health care of the population and, in particular, children. We ask the Supreme Council to support the government's bill on the allocation of 28 million dollars to OHMATDIT, which will help improve the health care of our children, our tomorrow, our future. And we support the proposal for financial support from the Donetsk District Clinic. And we ask you to vote for that. Let Donetsk and Kiev, in all other cities of Ukraine, know that the government of Yulia Timoshenko is working to improve, including health care, the provision of care for our children, adults, pensioners, disabled persons, and health care. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u230	Dear colleagues, we're in such a difficult situation here. On the one hand, we need to support Alexander Pecklesenck's proposal, but as just the budget committee now says he just supports, doesn't say which sources, we need to go that way. Either now take the basis of this project, then work it out, or now it needs to be taken, and this will be the right decision, according to Okhmatdit, and commission the draft changes to the Odessa County Hospital budget. Carpuk, please. Continue work for 15 minutes, morning session.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u231	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! By following the path proposed by the deputy, practically every area has its own problems, and there are many unfinished facilities, poor funding for district hospitals, and, above all, children’s hospitals. And this isn't the government's concern. When I received the budget, I noted that health funding through the Ministry of Health had been reduced from 5.7 billion to 4 billion. And so now we're going to talk about how good we are and every time we're going to add 10, 20, 30 million, that's not the solution. If the problem is to be resolved, it is important to resolve the problem by significantly increasing health funding in general. Because today we're going to be looking at a bill to preserve social protection for domestic workers. There are appropriate bills to preserve the social protection of specialized law enforcement agencies and so forth, and there is a wide range of reference medicine where costs are not costed rationally. A child’s center of cardiology, AIDS treatment for children, and so on is also needed. So, really, if we keep looking at it this way, we won't. We need to vote in favour of this decision, we need to give first aid to the financial hospital "Ohmatdit" and then we need to look at all the other issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u232	Dear colleagues, let's go this way that we're all in "Ohmatdit," there was an entry meeting of the Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood, talking about those problems and problems. This is not a discussion of the bill we have already, dear colleagues. We make decisions. So let's go this way. We will now adopt, as the committee and the government has proposed, this law, and at the same time we will entrust our Health Committee, as well as the budgetary committee, to study the matter and make immediate proposals in the form of appropriate changes to the State Budget, but this must be done together with the government. If we support such a proposal, the commission will be formulated and directed to the relevant committees, the proposals to the government will be addressed. And I am voting on the proposal of a committee supported by the government to adopt as a basis and as a whole, as a law, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2009 of Ukraine, registration number 4025. [[on the financing of Ohmatdit Hospital]] Please vote. [[13:57:08]] For 384 Decision taken. Others may not have been able to vote. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, we have continued our work for 15 minutes. A draft Ukrainian law amending certain Ukrainian laws " with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 13.06 is being announced for consideration. 2007, registration number 0868. The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the Ukrainian Presidential Secretariat, Alexander Vitaliyovich Schlapak. Sergey Mikolaiovich Ribuk will be speaking from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u233	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The President of Ukraine proposes to reject the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws, as its standards, firstly, renew the obligation of certification of agricultural products imported into Ukraine, as well as duplication of government control functions and monitoring of food safety, secondly, conflict with international agricultural trade practices, thirdly, with Ukraine's obligations to the World Trade Organisation. To date, the obligation of certification of all, I emphasize, is not provided for all domestic agriculture by Ukraine’s legislation. And this is, of course, a European practice. As part of the negotiating process for Ukraine’s entry into the World Trade Organization, we have undertaken to gradually reduce the list of products subject to mandatory certification. By the way, it's way above the European list. One of the requirements of the WTO member states is to distinguish controlling powers between the central executive authorities of Ukraine and in particular in the area of food security control. At the same time, the law establishes an order according to which the Minister of Health and the Department of Veterinary Medicine will duplicate the functions of the Ministry of Health and the Department of Veterinary Medicine in contravention of the requirements of the World Trade Organization. The mandatory certification of all agricultural products is not and is contrary to the rules and principles of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade in the World Trade Organization, as well as the Agreement on the Application of Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures, to which we joined during our accession to the World Trade Organization. Thus, the adoption of the law would mean a direct breach of Ukraine's obligations under the WTO accession negotiation process, contrary to the rules of international trade, and the main one would create additional unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles for Ukrainian consumers to produce agricultural products. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u234	Thank you, too. Please sit, Alexander Vitaliovich. Ribuk Sergey Mikolaiovich, deputy head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u235	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! If possible, listen to us for two minutes because the question is about the health of the nation, the health of everyone present. And of course today, there is no need to convince any person in our country of the quality of the food coming. They're looking at Ukraine after import. The Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations recommends that the Supreme Council confirm the previous drafting of the Act amending certain laws of the country to ensure the quality of imports, i.e. to overcome the veto. Why? This law was passed by the Supreme Council of the previous call on April 10, 2007. He was supported by a constitutional majority, with 314 national deputies voting for him. But for some reason, the law was not signed by the President and returned. The story began after the adoption of the Supreme Council of the Veterinary Medicine Act on November 16, 2006. Then, I recall, from the vote of one of the National Deputies, they voted to exclude from the 4th article of the Law on State Regulation for the Import of Agricultural Product Production Requirements for the Compulsory Certification of Imported Agricultural Products. After that, the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations took a rather responsible, profound study of this issue and held an exit meeting directly on the basis of the State Consumer, where members of the Committee were personally able to verify the “quality” of imported agricultural products, goods and foodstuffs. [[in quotes]] No pattern or example was close enough to say that it was safe for health, and a number of samples were so quality that it was not something to eat, but it was dangerous to stand next to them in terms of radiation and so forth. [[in quotes]] Now for the comments of the President of Ukraine. Surprisingly, it's very easy to disprove and master the President's remarks. Why? Because the certification of food products of Ukraine cannot be regarded as an obstacle to the fact that we are WTO members, since the Agreement on Technical Barriers to Trade defines that no country should be banned from taking the measures necessary to protect its important security interests. In accordance with the requirements of the Agreement on the Application of Sanitary I. certification measures are directed towards sanitary measures that each SOT member State has the right to apply to the provision of safety and life, the health of its citizens. The documents of the Codex Commission. The principles of food inspection and certification at import, exports have been formulated that food inspection and certification systems should be applied wherever necessary in order to ensure that food and food production systems are in conformity with the requirements that protect consumers from the risks posed by the food itself and from the unfair use of food. And one more thing. The elimination in Ukraine of mandatory certification of imports of agricultural products means that Ukraine, I emphasize, is opening its market unilaterally and that no one is giving us the opportunity to export its own products. So the change in article 4 on State regulation of imports of agricultural products is destroying the most effective mechanism for protecting the domestic market from counterfeit imported food. And finally. Then, when we have the appropriate technical and technical regulations and are approved, then we can go back and simply repeal what we have the right to do. Thank you for your attention. I suggest we break the veto, and that's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u236	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The first is the President’s proposal to vote. What, what?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u237	He's already been on the show. Please, Peter Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u238	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to ask you to support the proposal to overcome the veto. And in this situation, we are witnessing that the President, in the interest of the World Trade Organization today, said that he was not interested in the health of the people of Ukraine. And he's giving up the product certification, which is that they're going to bring all the shit in here from abroad and kill our people, that's the first. Secondly, it is a threat to the import of genetically modified products. And thirdly, these are of course American interests, which he has served forever, are Bush's legs and any other products that are being imported. I've only got a few indicators, there's a thousand checks, and the bird's meat was about 115 tons only detained, one that's imported here and it's not good. That is, President Yushchenko stated that he was ready to feed the people of Ukraine with wastes of Europe and peace. I suggest you break the veto, and I'm asking you to support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u239	Roman Mikhailovich, I don't understand why you're yelling. He's one minute motivated, now you're going to have the opportunity, you're just not going to act all at once. Second, I announced Yuri Carmazin, then Roman Tkac and we vote. One of you will define.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u240	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u241	I thought there was gonna be one man and we're gonna vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u242	"Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense Party." Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you, without emotion, to learn the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, which stone on the stone does not leave to all the motivations of Mr. Schlapak, which we have just heard. It's just brutal to say that foreign products will have the advantage of domestic agriculture, which goes through the same veterinary control, the veterinary medicine law, and so on. So I support those proposals now made by the previous speakers. Thank you to Rybuku's colleagues for his position. And I think we need to get over the veto and look again, signed by Bordenyuk, the head of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority. He said it was all made up, nothing is the opposite of a hundred. This protects Ukrainian society, ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u243	Roman Tchac, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u244	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Roman Tkac, group “For Ukraine”, faction “The People. “ I’m sorry. ”"Our Ukraine." Vladimir Mikhailovich, you see. Well, they laughed, and that's enough. Vladimir Mikhailovich, what's the matter? It's such an important question, it's been made into politics! Here is Peter Ivanovich of the State Veterinary Service. Ladies and gentlemen, the question is not that the President is allowing us to transport anything here. But the question is different. Today there are three services: the Ministry of Health, the Epidemiology and the Veterinary Service, and all three carry out the same examination – this is what this is all about. I believe that everything that is imported into Ukraine is carefully and thoroughly tested. But all of this needs to be reconciled. And you can't impose all these three tests. That's why I'm saying, dear colleagues, we need to support what our President is proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u245	Andrew School, and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u246	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Of course, it's a good initiative to overcome the veto, but in this situation we have to figure out what we're dealing with, because in fact, we have to think about what we are members of the WTO for real, and what we can regulate is that in this situation we have to work out a different quality of the law. Those proposals made by the President, I think they're only understood by the President's secretariat itself, there. It's an empty offer. So now we need to quickly, qualitatively and fully eliminate those overlays that exist in control of imports here. So, in principle, we think that the law is raw and premature, we have to propose a new legislative initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m0.u247	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've been talking about, everyone is right about one thing: let's think about Ukrainian products, how they can be exported outside Ukraine, which requirements apply to Ukrainian products. Clearly, then, our legislation should be mirrored. But that's the subject of another conversation. Now let's move on to the decision-making process. Dear colleagues, the President of Ukraine's proposal to vote first on the rejection of the Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to ensure the quality of imported agricultural products. Registration number 0868. About the deviation. [[14:10:15]] For-35 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, now second proposal, committee proposal. Overcoming the veto of the President of Ukraine on the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Quality of Imported Agricultural Products. Registration number 0868. Please vote. [[14:10:51]] For-188. Just a minute. The decision is not taken. The law is rejected. Now for the factions, please. Region Party – 149, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 8, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 4, Communist faction – 27, “Litvina Block” – 0. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break until 4:00 p.m. At 16 o’clock we will continue to consider the laws of Ukraine on which the President of Ukraine made his remarks.
