ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Please include the “Council” system. [[16:00:55]] For 430. Excuse me, there are 430 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening plenary session open. Dear colleagues, we are finalizing a discussion of the issue that we started at the market plenary meeting on the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Diplomatic Service of Ukraine. The report is by Belarus Oleg Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u2	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Ukraine’s diplomatic service is young, but it is also experienced in modernizing, repairing, and improving its functioning requires considerable public efforts. This service will in the future depend on the effectiveness of the entire government management system. In accordance with article 93 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has carefully considered the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on Diplomatic Service. [[on the regulation of the legal status and the allocation of diplomatic rank]] [[Registration number 4785]] The purpose of the law is to improve organizations and all activities of diplomatic service, taking into account its features of modern development and international experience. The adoption of this important law will require some additional budget allocations to part of the extension of the status of war veterans to members of the diplomatic service who were sent by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, that is, the State, for long-term travel to other countries to perform service duties in Ukraine’s foreign diplomatic institutions during the period of hostilities in the respective countries. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council recommends that, as a result of the first reading, a bill be adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u3	Oleg Grigorovitch, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u4	The Committee on Foreign Affairs, after considering and discussing the project, recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it in its first reading with a view to further processing, taking into account comments and suggestions from ministries, departments, departments, national deputies of Ukraine and relevant departments of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u5	Thank you. Please sit down. Is there a need to discuss? There's no need for that. I am voting on a proposal for a committee to adopt in the first reading of the draft Law amending the Law on Diplomatic Service of Ukraine. [[Registration number 4785]] I'd like to make a statement. [[16:04:47]] For-300 Decision taken. The first reading of the bill was approved. I'd like the profile committee to prepare the draft law for second reading. Dear colleagues, before the break, we reached a consensus on the incomprehensible changes in the momentum of today's plenary session. In accordance with the proposed sequence, I am announcing a draft decree establishing the boundaries of the city of Ohtyrka and the district of Ohtyr. [[Registration number 4802]] Please, Sunchenko Viktor Mikolaiovich. Please, just a second. Do we have an offer yet on order of work or what? Adam Ivanovich, please. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u6	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! I think we've made the right decision by noon that we've changed the way we look at today's issues, that we're now looking at issues that are the most intolerant. And if we're already on this path, I'm bringing a proposal to your attention, I think it deserves absolute support, that after the issues that we're going to consider right now, exactly in the sequence that we agreed to at the morning session, that we don't listen to reports from commissions that we're still going to hear today, unfortunately, not all of us, and that we should immediately go to the chapter of second reading, which also has a direct bearing on those laws that we're going to adopt. And the committees started tomorrow or were there to be fully listened to. I think it would be right that after these laws they went to the bills that have to be considered in the second reading. There's four or three of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u7	Is there a denial? Is there no objection? This is the order of work for this evening’s festive session. Please, Sinchenko Viktor Mikolaiovich, for the draft regulation 4802.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u8	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! The Suma District Council violated the concerns before the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the establishment of the boundaries of the city of Ohtyrka. A project to establish boundaries developed by the Ohtyr City Centre of the State Land cadastre, taking into account the actual land use situation. The cost of the project documentation is 130,000 bracelets used from the local budget. According to the accounts of the city of Ohtirka, there is a total area of 2,962 hectares. It is planned to include 231 acres [231 ha] of land, 53 acres [53 ha] of which are in the knowledge of the Kardashian Rural Council and 178 are in the knowledge of the Pologna Rural Council of the Ohtyr district. In these areas there are dwellings and streets of the city, gas management, ochtyrska interreibase, VAT “Ukrnafta”, a local cemetery, institutions and other city organizations. At the same time, 7.5 hectares [7.5 ha] are transferred from the city’s territory within the Kardashian Rural Council of the Ohtyr district, in view of the fact that these lands are owned by citizens according to the decision of the Cardassian Rural Council for the actual place of registration of citizens. Thus, the land area of the city of Ohtyrka will be 3,186 acres [3,186 ha] after the changes have been made. This issue is in line with legislation, discussed and approved by Kardashian and Pologovska Selski, Ohtyrské Mishka, Ohtyrské district, Sumské district councils, and the Supreme Council Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self - Government at its meeting, held on June 24, 2009, is a member of all factions that form part of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u9	Please, Victor Mikolayovich, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u10	establishing a change in the boundaries of the city of Ohttirka. Please ask the deputies to support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u11	Is there a need to discuss? There's no need for that. I put to the vote a draft decree establishing the boundaries of the city of Ohtirka and the district of Ohtyr. [[Registration number 4802]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:09:56]] For 312 Decision taken. A draft decree establishing the borders of the city of Krasnoprekopsk of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is being announced for consideration. [[4801 - Registration Number]] Please, Victor Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u12	Dear colleagues, I'm on the rostrum for the third time. The territory of the city was 741 hectares [741 ha] in 1992. And the decision of the Red Cross District Council was to be added in one and a half thousand hectares. The decision was approved by a district council, a district council. And in accordance with the Constitution, since 1996, article 85 states that “the change in the boundaries of cities and districts is the competence of the Supreme Council, ” so the city council has entered into a problem of establishing 741 hectares of its own city being handed over to the city’s total area of 2,241 hectares. The production of documentation has spent 560,000 dollars on the city budget since 1992. To date, there are two projects that, according to the requirements and the law that we have adopted in the Supreme Council: first, on the monetary valuation of land and where there are already 100,000 in advance and on the delimitation of state and municipal property. The design documentation is not yet produced because the Supreme Council does not decide to change the borders of the city of Krasnoprekopsk. Please. make a positive decision on this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u13	Is there a need to discuss?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u14	And this will be a gift for the people of the Kraspoprek and Ohtika community on the day of their own administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u15	Is there no need to discuss? I am voting on the draft decree establishing the borders of the city of Krasnoprekopsk and the region of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. [[Registration number 4801]] I'd like to make a statement. [[16:12:25]] For 368 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! The next question, in line with our decision at the morning plenary, is the question of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the 2009 National Budget, with proposals by the President of Ukraine, and then the next draft law: "To Amend the Ukrainian Law on the 2009 State Budget" -- on the same issue. But this is a question we have to put into the agenda, because we don't have it. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2009. [[Registration number 5383]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:13:33]] For 290 Questions are included in the agenda of the day session. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the 2009 State Budget of Ukraine, with proposals by the President of Ukraine, is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 5301]] Please, Mikola Ivanovich Derkach.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u16	Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies and invited! On 2 December, the Committee on Budget Affairs planned to consider the issue of the drafting of the Act on the amendment of the Act on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2009. [[No. 5301]] However, the absence of a quorum did not result in a committee meeting. It should be recalled that this law provides for the State Budget General Fund to appoint the Ministry of Health to take measures to prevent the spread and elimination of A/H1N1 influenza and acute respiratory diseases in the amount of 1 billion dollars for the redistribution between special and general funds due to excess revenues over the costs of the National Bank this year. The president of Ukraine applied the veto to this law and returned to the Supreme Council with his proposals. In particular, the President is invited to change the source of the additional expenditure recorded in the amount of one billion dollars due to an increase in government domestic borrowing and a corresponding increase in government debt and government budget deficits. The Budget Committee at its meeting on 18 November adopted a decision recommending that the Supreme Council re-examine the President's veto to Act No. 5301. Based on the consideration of this issue at the extraordinary plenary meeting on 26 November, the Supreme Council did not support any proposal by the President and did not break the veto and send him to the Committee on Budget Affairs. In doing so, with the aim of enacting Act No. 5301 and the immediate financing of measures to prevent the spread in Ukraine of A/H1N1 influenza and acute respiratory diseases, the Cabinet of Ministers would like to highlight, submit proposals to the Supreme Council for a bill to reduce the cost of such measures from one billion dollars to 608 million 216 thousand dollars, with the corresponding adjustment of Article 1 and Appendices. The government's proposed changes in figures are justified by the National Bank's decision of 30 November to recalculate three quarters of the current year's government budget expenditure of 608 million dollars. It should also be noted that the Budget Committee was provided with detailed information from the Ministry of Health on the implementation of measures to prevent the spread of A/H1N1 influenza in Ukraine, including the use of reserve funds for 500 million dollars for the stated purpose. This information was distributed to all members of the Budget Committee. For the stenographer. In the case of the adoption of Law 5301 in the new edition, it is necessary to remove technical inconsistencies in relation to the non-conformity of the veto to the Act of 22 October, i.e. the Bill of Law No. 4707, and the signing of the Laws of 23 October and 6 November, it is necessary to make appropriate changes to this Act in the portion of the precision of the income figures, including the rates of excise collection from. in Ukraine of the goods and expenditures of the State Budget in the article first and in additions. [[No. 1680]] [[No. 1688]] [[No. 1715]] Accordingly, the Committee on Budget Affairs, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, should provide the necessary editorial and technical legal clarifications to the text and to the Supplements to Act No. 50. 5301 in the event of its adoption in a new edition, signed by the Head of the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u17	Thank you, Mikola Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, you can wait a little while, because we're about to move on to the second question that you have to report. Dear colleagues, since we've already had this project under consideration, we don't have any new proposals, any new standards to consider. All the President's proposals are under consideration. That's why we only have one possibility right now, and I'm putting a vote on the proposal to defeat the veto of the President of Ukraine on the Act on. amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2009. [[Registration number 5301]] Please identify yourself. [[16:19:59]] For 227 The decision is not taken. The law has been revoked. Let us now consider the next question of the order of the day. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009 is being announced for consideration, registration number 5383. As reported by Azarov Mikola Janović.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u18	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! A party of regions, of course, advocates that the influenza epidemic should be tackled with money. I don't understand why this fight begins before the elections. It is not clear why Timoshenko has reduced twice the cost of treatment for tuberculosis, diabetes, and the cost of combating epidemics in 2009 is reduced by 10 times compared to 2008. It is also unclear why the 2009 budget, which was considered here exactly one year ago, reduced the allocation for the Ministry of Health by 700 million. Yes, annual funding is very poor. It is also unclear why only 10 per cent of the amount of the 500 million that the Government has made available from its contingency fund to combat epidemics is currently being achieved. I could give a number of other examples of how unseriously the Government of Timoshenko has been about health issues during this year. And we're going back to the real topic, the subject of this bill. It provides that an additional 200 million are allocated to the Cabinet of Ministers reserve fund in November-month. Of these, 100 million — for the central expenditure of the Ministry of Health and 100 million — are subsidies to regions to combat epidemics. Thus, the total of 700 million in the remaining 25 days of December is more than sufficient.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u19	Please finish, Mikola Janović.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u20	To solve all the problems we've just had. And I would like to draw your attention to the urgent need for the Government to submit a budget for 2010 to the Supreme Council, which will include the necessary health costs. We must consider and approve it in a timely manner so that, as of 1 January 2010, health funding is fully and centralized. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u21	Thank you, sit down, please. Mikola Ivanovich's screamer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u22	Dear Head, distinguished national deputies, invited! In case the Supreme Council adopts Bill No. 5383 as a whole as a law, it is necessary in addition to the changes in the state budget expenditure: First. To foresee the name, Appendix 2 to the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009. The other one. Bring this plugin into line with the forms of Appendix 3 to the State Budget 2009 Act. That is to divide consumption costs, labour costs, utility services and energy and development costs, and to specify the codes for the functional classification of expenditure and the credit of the State Budget. Third. In the name of Budget Programmes under code 2301580 and 2311060 after the word “flu”, add the word “type”. Four. The name of the Budget Program under code 3511460 should be supplemented by the words “State and municipal property, including the construction of a rail and road bridge. Or crossing the Dnipro River in Kiev at 650 gravel, as well as building a metropolis in the cities of Dnipropetrovsk, Donetsk, Kiev and Kharkiv. In addition, appropriate changes to Appendix 7 of the State Budget Act 2009 should be made in connection with the provision of subsidies to local budgets to finance measures to prevent the spread and treatment of A/H1N1 influenza and acute respiratory diseases. In the title of the bill, it is also necessary to exclude words in parentheses that finance measures to combat the flu epidemic. Accordingly, the Budget Committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, should provide the necessary editorial and technical legal clarifications to the text and addenda to the Bill under number 5383 when it is adopted for signature.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u23	Thank you, Mikola Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Yes, there is a need to discuss. Please sign in. Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u24	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues! Yesterday, on television again, we heard the Prime Minister's hysteria about the fact that, if a billion is not allocated, there are almost tens of thousands of corpses waiting for us. And the Prime Minister's interview with a regular doctor was literally intruded. And they asked the female doctor how to explain the Prime Minister's position. She said, ‘Why is it not clear? It is clear that when, she says, Julia Timoshenko saw that her rating was 17 per cent lower than that of Viktor Fedorovich, she realized that the only way to break the situation was by throwing a huge amount of money into the election.” There is no such money, so it has rolled up the history before the adoption of a billion money that is supposed to be aimed at combating the epidemic and will actually be used for an election campaign. Therefore, do not give in to it. We had flu epidemics every year, but there was never such a hysteria because there was no candidate for President Timoshenko and no presidential campaign. That's why we really have to count the money. Be able to count every penny so that it doesn't stick to anyone's pre-election hands to get to a particular hospital, to a particular clinic. Therefore, the option proposed by Nikolai Janović Azarov by the Party of the Regions, 200 million, will be enough to digest this amount by the end of the year, given the 400 million that have not been learned, to digest it, so that it will be used effectively. Further, as Victor Fedorovich said in his interest-taking programme. We need to bet on health next year and then, indeed, we will raise our system as a whole and provide normal health care to our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u25	Karpuk Vladimir Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u26	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues, we support the allocation of health funds that need them. Because the last years of funding at 3.2 to 3.4 percent are much less than necessary. The Ministry of Health carried out an inventory of available medical equipment and equipment in 2007. And the need for health care, which has just appeared to be under an enlarged electronic microscope that lacks artificial breathing equipment, drug and respiratory equipment in general, reanimated vehicles, a total of ambulances, artificial kidney devices, is about to be illuminated. Unfortunately, the 2009 budget did not provide any money for high - value, high - tech medical equipment. And that's why, of course, even if the ministry were willing to get one billion dollars, it's because, in fact, there's a huge need for medical facilities. However, we, the President's veto, are to make this money real. So the bank, the National Bank confirmed the figure of 608 million, and if the committee actually worked with the government and the proposal for 608 million was actually made, we would support that proposal. Since there are at least 200 million, these health - care costs are needed today. And I call for a vote because, in fact, if there are, God forbid situations, there are levels, even district hospitals, and it is impossible to provide treatment for patients at the current level. Therefore, these costs are necessary, and I ask the Ministry of Health to vote and provide these funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u27	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u28	Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! In fact, the health system today lacks not only a billion dollars but not two billion dollars — not three billion — but much more. And this is because the residual principle of financing and education, and in this case the health system has been available for many years on various government issues. And so there was a situation where, at the moment of today’s crisis, I would say so, in health care, there were problems when, at the mass appeal of citizens, district hospitals, hospitals, and even district hospitals were unable to implement their function at the same time and to provide real help. And the blame here is the policy of the residual principle of funding for at least ten years or more. And so, honourable colleagues, in order for there to be no problem, and this problem will be as long as those from whom I really emphasize really depend on the decision to finance the health care system are treated abroad in Switzerland, in Britain, in France, in Spain, rather than starting with those who really depend on the decision to finance health care will not begin to be treated in Ukrainian hospitals, there will never be adequate funding for medicine, because they and their children do not need it, they are being treated there. And so when it comes to the fact that in the current health crisis, money can obviously be spent, the question has to be, not who is the author of a bill or a bill, because, if you'll excuse me, a rude word, a consumer to spit out whose bill it is when he comes to the hospital and there's no, he's brought to the hospital and there's no artificial breathing equipment. We voted.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u29	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u30	The block of Lithuania voted in favour of the previous draft, unfortunately it has not passed, but will also vote in favour of this bill, because health needs real money. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u31	Odarchenko Yuri Vitaliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u32	Dear colleagues, the “Julia Timoshenko Block” voted in favour of the first bill because it is absolutely responsible for health issues. There was a great deal of criticism about our vote on the moratorium on medicine. Why didn't we vote? We wanted to foresee sources that could cover the difference in drugs for those institutions that were supposed to trade them. So our insistence on the first bill was perfectly legitimate. When you look at the need for spending? I can now make it clear that the second wave of the flu epidemic is developing in Hersonland. Unfortunately, no one is able to monitor the situation clearly, but today in one area of the population, 100 patients are in hospital every day. These are mostly children and pregnant women. A very large number for such populated areas. No action is taken. And now that half of these halls are calling for us to count the resources. I mean, we have to count them in local.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u33	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u34	Just 20 more seconds, please. I can tell you how these costs are spent at the local level. The head of a party of regions buys a car for a million dollars and organizes concerts instead of repairing these hospitals. A million cars are a million concerts. And responsibility is felt in this room when we control what's happening on the spot, and not here, we have completely false rallying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u35	Martinjuk Adam Ivanovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u36	Dear voters! I don't want to talk to my colleagues anymore. What we've just done to you doesn't grace the Supreme Council. Why didn't we vote 1 billion dollars for medical development? Because there's something wrong with the President? What does it matter who offers?Oh, my God! We had a unique chance to get 1 billion dollars for our poorest medicine, which could be. You and I have, unfortunately, ignored it. We tell stories that we can't get it, that we shouldn't do it, and so on and so forth. I'm very, very sorry. As far as this bill is concerned, at least 200 million must be supported. But under the same conditions as a billion, if there were, unfortunately, no more than 200, under strict control of the distribution, where that money would go. The D.A.'s office, the accounting office, all the other control organs. Let me support at least 200 million. Because I'm afraid we're gonna lose this.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u37	The discussion is over. Dear colleagues, we have a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with Health Minister Knazevitch Vasil Mikhajlovich. Will there be any objection if we give him our word? There's no objection. Please, Vasil Mikhailovich, yes, from the place. Turn on the microphone. Should we adopt this law, or should we not?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u38	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, honourable deputies! According to our calculations, the Ministry of Health, in order to maintain and correct the situation by March, we need 3 billion 852 million. These are calculations so that we can understand how to help people. The second wave that we approach, just the vaccine, the vaccine that you can inoculate or instill in children and pregnant women, it's a little bit different in quality and so forth, and you have to buy it for, like, one-and-a-half, one-and-a-half million doses of that kind of money that you're spending today. Thank you so much for that. But if we want to ensure the proper future of the health system, I would ask for it next year. First, I thank you for 200 million, and that's also a big deal, but next year, we're going to go to the health system for real and allocate the necessary funds. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u39	Thank you, Vasil Mikhailovich. I am voting for the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009. [[Registration number 5383]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:38:24]] For 416 Decision taken. Please turn on Mikola Ivanovich's microphone. I want to ask you, do we have the opportunity to enact this law as a whole? Please, Mikoli Ivanovich the Ripper.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u40	Dear colleagues, in my statement, I have identified several points of inadequacy of the proposed bill with the legislative requirements in the drafting parts of the bill and several tables that balance the budget. So if, given what I called it, for the transcript, you can say it. But there was also a proposal of 608. Why not put him to the vote as well?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u41	Dear colleagues, what's going on with the drafting, that's the regulatory technique, there's no problem here, it's going to be prepared in accordance with the Rules, and the legal and technical regulations don't need a special vote then in the session room. And as for the core norms, the change in numbers, of course, it's only voted here in the session room. That's why. Please, now, we've approved in the first reading, I'm talking to my colleagues, can we now consider proposals that will change the essence of the law now in session mode without referring to the committee? Is there any objection to doing this? None. So please sign up now to make proposals specific to the content of the law. Please, Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u42	Sobolev, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues, when discussing the issue the previous time, there was a constant development: Where would these costs be spent? Today, the Cabinet of Ministers has offered not only articles on where these costs will be spent, but even the prices at which equipment, resuscitations, and other medical equipment will be purchased. So for today, I'm going to announce just three digits: 417 million of the equipment is offered for the purchase of each article, 110 million for the payment to doctors and to the junior medical unit. [[Count it, it's almost 600 million.]] So the proposition of our faction is, no doubt, to support the figure that the National Bank has warned it to have is 608 million profits for its activities. This number will correspond at least to these two articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u43	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u44	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, I was delighted to see the end of the merger of the hall, despite the offer of a project by Mikola Janović Azarov. I think that this proposal, which has just been said, I am holding a letter signed by Prime Minister Timoshenko that she is proposing from what decision of the National Bank of 30 November 2009 to recalculate the three-quarters of the state budget costs of over-expenditure expenses of 608 million 216 thousand dollars. That's exactly 608 million 216 thousand dollars, and it's quite right to say, 25 more copies, if it's to be exact, have to be written down and written down "to reduce the amount of expenditure defined in Appendix 2 to the bill "Actions to prevent the spread and treatment of influenza." and so on. But I want to sharpen your attention to that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u45	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u46	Thank you, Reverend Alexander Volodymyrovich. I want to point out that it's not just the flu. And what the colleague Martinyuk was talking about today, and what the minister of health told us today, which today, no matter how much health care they gave us, will be few. And that billion we could find today, but that's 608,000. 608 million 216 thousand dollars clearly written down, this is the position of the government, the Prime Minister's signature is, sits Matvijčik, the Deputy Minister of Finance, he can confirm that these funds are, and we need to get a conclusion, we can. We're obliged to listen to it because it's a second reading, and there's the Budget Code, ladies and gentlemen, I'm simply reminding you. So 608 million 216 thousand dollars and 25 copies of our other Paul Žebrovsky, please include. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u47	Yuri Anatoliyovich, don't remind me of the adoption of the Budget Code, because then we have to stop the whole process. Please, Semerik Ostap Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u48	Semera Ostap, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko, Reform and Order Party. I would like to propose to support the government's proposals and help reform the health system and to accept the increases that we will today be taking in terms of not just fighting the flu but as the first effective steps in the reform of the health system, I would like to support Sergio Soboljev's proposals to increase spending on 608 million dollars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u49	Filipenko Volodymyr Philipovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u50	Colleague Odarchenk, please pass the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u51	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to support the amount of 608 million. That's not a big deal. There were very good suggestions that we have the opportunity to allocate a billion. Now, Minfin counted, 608 million. You know, I'm going to go back to that example I was saying. There are absolutely no infectious compartments in the areas. Today, the epidemic, as a searchlight, has highlighted problems. People are infected with common patients. In fact, it is today a disaster that we cannot localize at all in its serious development. 608 million is going to be the minimum that is absolutely necessary, and it might be allocated to the health sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u52	Thank you. The proposals are repeated. In fact, one proposal is made. I'm asking you to come to the rostrum of Mikola Janovich Azarov, because I want to bring you to your knowledge that we need a substantial change in the text of the law then, because it's not just about the numbers, it's about the sources. Here we were invited to accept the first reading of the transfer of figures from the special fund to the general fund. And what's going on with the National Bank is over-expenditure. So we need to do some serious, precise and scrupulous editing now. Mikola Janović, please, your suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u53	Well, first of all, I would like to reply to Nikolai Ivanovich, who is respected, that all expenditure under the items is charged under Subsidy No. 2311060 and Budget Programme No. 2301580. So the law has been written completely in line with budgetary practice. With regard to other proposals. I would like to address, distinguished people's deputies, the same source cannot be shared for different purposes. You have forgotten that in this room we voted Euro-2012 through a source of excess revenue over the National Bank's spending. Have you forgotten or not? That's what I'm telling you. Therefore, this 608 million needs to be proportionally divided into Euro-12 and 200 million for the cost of the epidemic, overcoming the epidemic. In general, it is necessary to act in accordance with the Budget Code, with a budget breakdown. Money, respectable. Who's sitting here from Minfin? Vladimir Makarovich. You have, you've only recently received 2.3 billion SDRs, which in our wooden bracelets means how much? So we're going to multiply by 2 times 8 times 16 billion. We have managed, indeed, to spend, but to date the government has money and the Government can use it. True, I pay attention, Vladimir Makarović, hand over Minfin to the future that the money should be credited as it is. A budget programme for the use, utilization and utilization of these resources should be presented to the Supreme Council. And when you present this program, you'll sign it. We need a billion dollars in health care, please, we'll look into it. But you have money and you can't spend it out of control. Turning to the topic, the law proposed by us is absolutely balanced and is absolutely sufficient to implement all the programmes envisaged by the Ministry of Health this year. Give it to you literately, without abuse, to spend it in such a way that they all go to health-related tasks. So if there is, Alexander Vladimirovich, any additions, I didn't hear them, to be honest. But if there are any additions, then let me have them, we will consider them and present them, and we will vote on amendments and supplements accordingly. Therefore, we have an option: either to vote in general, without any changes or additions, or to recast the law. But we will vote in favour of a different approach than the one proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u54	Dear colleagues, we have two options for further action. Obviously, right now we can't do a new edition with a complete change in the sources, the distribution by the plugins. If there's a need to send us to the committee for second reading, I think that's it. This proposal will be put to the vote. There is another proposal made by the author of the legislative initiative to vote in general now what was adopted in the first reading. Here are two options for our actions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to calm down, because we only have the choices I've called. Option one. Report to the Committee for processing changes to all articles and figures for the second reading of the already corrected draft law with other numbers, other sources to be used for costs. Option two. Immediately vote on the entire text that we have adopted in our first reading. Here's two choices. [[B in m in s a l in]] We have an understanding of how we will act? [[B in m in s a l in]] Alexander Mikolayovich, what are you yelling about? You'll make your decision. There will be no other decision, no matter what they tell us now. Please tell me, Vladimir Makarovich, how is the Supreme Council supposed to approve decisions on second reading, changes to the State Budget Act? Because it is not clear to individual deputies how the Supreme Council should accept it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u55	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! The solution is too simple. The National Bank agreed to count the excess of income over expenditure of 608 million, 216 thousand dollars. So, vote, please, that these costs are allocated, for the transcription, I'm just saying, to allocate 230-15-80, A/H1N1 "California"-0409, for the Ministry of Health. Further, it is necessary to assign simply to the Supreme Council and the Committee on Budget Affairs the task of dealing with matters that do not even need to be dealt with in the Supreme Council. This is to change article 1 of the State Budget Act, the corresponding additions to the State Budget Act. And we're going to have these 608 million dollars today, and we're going to send them to finance measures to fight the flu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u56	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you can applaud. But I'll let you know that the Supreme Council of Ukraine approves draft laws that are submitted in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine. And we have a transcript of a proposal that we can't redistribute in principle. If there is an article in the budget that provides for the calculation of a certain amount from the National Bank, then please, within the programme, the Cabinet of Ministers will decide. I'm voting now. Yes, please, Mikola Ivanovich Derkach. Then there's Andriy Anatoliyovich Kožemiakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u57	Dear colleagues, I would like to emphasize once again. In my statement, for the transcript, I made several proposals. The principle issue is in Appendix 7 for subsidies to local budgets and funding for the programme as a whole. The only thing is, Nikolai Janovich, you'll agree later, I'll convince you. You'll see you don't have it. That is, what I have been saying stems from the Budget Code and all the legislation that requires the drafting of any law. There's nothing there. I'd like what you are. For the transcript, I read it, take it into account when voting. We don't change anything there, we don't change the amount, we just deal with the technical side of the issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u58	Cosmiakin Andriy Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u59	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, you asked the question before discussing it: Who has the suggestions? We made proposals from factions. More than that, we were supported by the committee head. I believe that 608 million is still slightly more than 200 million to deal with the phenomena that Ukraine is currently suffering. Moreover, Adam Ivanovich spoke, and he offered to vote in favour of allocating these funds for hospital refurbishment, providing them with the means to replace the equipment. So we think this proposal should be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u60	Dear Andriy Anatolyovich, please open the law. Because here we have to write clearly both in states and in additions. Article 1 has figures that relate to the changes in the income of the State Budget General Fund, the revenue of the State Budget Special Fund. We need to clearly define the change in these incomes. Another article defines the amount that is credited to the Cabinet of Ministers by the National Bank of Ukraine. There's still a sign of where it's going. We can't do it in plenary right now. Because if we vote just like that right now, we're going to have to go back to this law because it can't be able to go into action. And we will do worse with good intentions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u61	Please, Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u62	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, once again I urge you not to lose what you may lose again. Because after one billion, it's going to go to 608 million. Clearly, it is not possible to violate the Rules, and it is clear that what is now being done, unfortunately, is not possible for us to do so now, without violating the Rules and the Budget Code. So I propose to support the proposal: to have the committee prepare for the second reading tomorrow all of these proposals for tomorrow and tomorrow the first question to consider is to allocate 608 million to the medicine to which the National Bank promises to pay off its income. And this is going to be a very good and the right way out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u63	Dear colleagues, well, the offer understood if there were others?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u64	Please, Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u65	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine! ” In general, it seems to us that all of these complications are due to the fact that power and opposition, even on the issue of the group, cannot and do not want to make a deal. There would be a billion and, if there was a desire to discuss, a dialogue with each other. Now we can lose, even 200 million. I have an offer that Adam Ivanovich offers at the river, but I would like to propose to put to the vote now a figure of 608 million, because it is sounded by the official representative, the Ministry of Finance. True, I didn't see Stellak here behind this rostrum to confirm that they have such excess income over expenditure, but if there is such a proposal from Minfin, we have to vote now. It's not going to get the required number of votes right now, let's vote at least 200 million. And we're not putting that question off for tomorrow. Because tomorrow we can't solve anything. And then the New Year, Christmas and everyone will forget about the flu epidemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u66	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u67	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Oleg Zarubinsky's Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues, we have a happy situation. Happy, because the stumbling block when it came to the allocation of one billion dollars all the time was the subject, are they in the National Bank, or aren't they? Remember we all said that, and all that said, the president said that there was no one in Nazbank, the government said there was no one else. Can you, Mr. Deputy Minister, confirm that this is Stelma's position, that 608 million are for these needs? If you can, we'll fix it. We can record that the minister of health confirms that there are programs for using this money. I don't think it's up to you, Your Honor. If there's a possibility to allocate 608 million today, let's make an allocation. Come on, get out of your mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u68	Honourable Oleg Alexandrovich, for example, is not allowed to speak on behalf of the Head of the National Bank. Please, Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u69	Thank you, Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues, let us not depart from the Rules. We are considering a law or a bill. We have two options. The first option will either agree that there are no additions and vote in general if this is supported by the Hall. And the second option, if we have a comment, is to send it to second reading. Alexander Vladimirovich, I ask you not to violate the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u70	Dear colleagues, isn't it urgent that we all adopt a draft law adopted in the first reading? Shall we send it to the committee? [[B in m in s a l in]] So, dear colleagues, I will inform you that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, by its decision of 395 votes, has decided that tomorrow we have the first question of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy. So there's a second question, if the committee prepares appropriate proposals clearly for the law, then we can include it in the meeting schedule and consider it. Please, I would like to place a vote on the referral to the commission committee on a timely basis to consider the proposals that will come from the legislators in order to present draft Law 5383 for a second reading. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:01:02]] For 241. Decision taken. Please prepare a comparative table with tomorrow’s proposals for the final decision. Let's go over the draft laws in the second reading. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Radio is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 2442]] Reports the head of the Committee’s Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information to Kondratuk Olena Konstantinovna. National MP Condratiuk is missing in the session room. Dear colleagues, in this regard, this bill is being removed from the agenda, and we will consider it later. A draft Act on the purchase of goods, jobs and services for public funds is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 2263-1]] Reported to Osik’s first deputy head of the Economic Policy Committee, Sergey Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u71	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Today, you are considering the draft Law on the purchase of goods, jobs and services at the expense of the state. [[Registration number known to you]] Before we go to the bill, I would like to draw your attention to the following. For more than six months, government procurement has been regulated at the level of regulations that do not comply with the Constitution of Ukraine. The situation that has arisen in this area today is extremely acute and needs a general solution to the urgency, I would say. The draft Law on State Finance Purchase was initiated by the Cabinet of Ministers and was approved on first reading as early as May 2008. A number of working groups were working on the draft for the second reading. Government officials, including the Ministry of Economics, primarily finance and Minist, and so on, participated in the drafting of the bill. The representatives of the World Bank and the European Commission contributed greatly to the drafting of the proposed bill. In order to harmonize the text of the draft law, numerous and lasting fruitful meetings were held with representatives of this and other international institutions. The Ministry of Economics has agreed twice on this issue, including the latter, insisting that the World Bank’s observations are agreed upon. More than 300 amendments were made to the committee. It's actually 4/5 of them are counted, it doesn't count several, so to speak, ones. And while I'm drawing your attention, I'd like to highlight the following, well, the main points of this law. In view of Ukraine’s commitment to the WTO, the key is the implementation of national legislation in the field of procurement under the WTO Treaty on State Procurement. Of course, taking into account regulations that meet and comply with international legal standards was a priority when the law was being amended. According to the law, the entire system of these purchases is divided into three basic components: regulation, direct procurement, and independent review of complaints. The regulatory function is entrusted to the authorized body of the Ministry of Economics of Ukraine. Customers perform these purchases. Function.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u72	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u73	It executes an organ, an accusation, it's a college body that's as independent as possible of the two previous ones. Taking all this into account, I ask you, honourable deputies, to uphold this law in second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u74	Dear colleagues, we have here several hundred proposals from the Ukrainian National Deputies. What will be the offer of Ukrainian national deputies? Whether we go after each one of them, or whether we look first at those that the committee does not recommend counting. If the national MPs insist, we will consider them. After that, those who are recommended by the committee to take into account and against whom there are objections to national MPs, and then we can move on to acceptance as a whole. Please, with the proposals that the regulation gives us, depending on the decision of the Ukrainian national MPs. Please, Oleg Alexanderovich Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u75	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! On the purchase of goods, jobs, and services at government expense. You remember how many times this bill was viewed, and we disagreed with it because we saw certain schemes that experts believe are openly corrupt. In order to prevent any suggestion of possibility or initiators, or who worked with them, from using this bill not entirely legal or not very transparent things, I propose to vote in an article of this bill in an article. As has been the practice of the last days. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u76	Roger that. Let us turn to the second reading. Amendment No. 1 of the national deputies Burlakov and Žebrovsky. The committee recommends a rejection. People's deputies insist, is there an argument? People's deputies don't insist. Amendment No. 1 shall be put to the vote. The committee recommends that this amendment be rejected. [[17:08:39]] For-59 Not supported. Amendment number three, because there was a pair of 1st and 2nd, the People's Deputy of the Divine. The committee recommends a rejection. Puts the vote to the vote. [[17:09:08]] By -1 These are all the amendments that apply only to the names of the law so far. The 4th Amendment of the People’s Deputy of Gorina. It's considered by the committee, the committee recommends that we take it into account. Amendment No. 4 of the People’s Deputy of Gorina puts the vote to a vote. [[17:09:36]] For 216 No consideration for the amendment. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm voting on the motion to return to the vote on this amendment. [[17:10:02]] For – 301 We're back. Please put to the vote Amendment No. 4 of the People's Deputies of Gorina. [[17:10:20]] For 303 Correction supported. 5 and 6 amendments to the national deputies of Burlak and Zebrovsky. The committee recommends a rejection. Is there a need for an argument with the deputies? None. I'll bet on it. Is it? I asked the MPs who brought it in. Don't you have to argue with your amendment? None. Please, in connection with this amendment, National Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u77	Yuri Carmazin. Honourable national MPs, I absolutely consider it appropriate to amend Mr. Burlakov and Mr. Žebrovski's amendment to replace the word “tender”, “tender” and “tender” with the words “competitive”, “competitive”. And the words “purchasing”, “purchasing”, “buyer” for “purchasing”. This is going to be more consistent with Ukrainian language, first of all, you remember, we already have the word "tender" connected to something bad, and that was not good. Let's get rid of it, and if we voted and changed the law, the name of the Law -- "On State Procurement" -- now it's going to be called, not what it's called now, we've changed the name, and we're going to change all over the text -- "Tender," "Tender," "Tender," "Tender," and maybe we're going to change the approach, we're going to be transparent, good, we're going to forget about all the other negatives that were. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u78	Amendments Nos. 5, 6 of Burlak and Zebrovski’s national deputies are to be voted on. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:12:18]] For – 18 Not supported. The 7th Amendment of the People’s Deputy of Gorin. The committee recommends that we consider it. Is there a need for an argument in the authors of the amendments? I'll bet on the vote of Amendment 7. [[17:12:49]] For 283 The amendment is supported. We have completed the amendments relating to the names of the law, so in accordance with the Rules, I place on the vote the name of the law in accordance with the amendment that we have supported. The name “Property of State Procurement”. The name of the new law is put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:13:30.]] For – 314 Copy that. 8 Amendment of the People’s Deputy of Gorin. The committee recommends that we consider it. Is there a need to discuss the amendment? Amendment No. 8 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:13:59]] For 274 Supported. 9 Amendment of the People’s Deputy of God’s Word The committee recommends that we consider it. Amendment No. 9 shall be put to the vote. Please identify yourself. [[17:14:28]] For – 248 Supported. The 10th Amendment of the People’s Deputies of God’s Word and Horinah Please, National Deputy Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u79	Dear colleagues, the 10th amendment does not need to be voted on, because it is consumed by 8 amendments, which already foresees replacing the words “tender offer” with the words “competition offer”. And so this is a repetition of the same thing. Why should we vote again?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u80	Here are the words “proposal period. ” Amendment No. 10 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:15:30.]] For 274 Supported. 11 Amendments, People’s Deputies of God’s Word and Horinah The committee recommends that we consider it. Puts the vote to the vote. [[17:15:50]] For -272 Supported. The 12th amendment, the people's. The 12th amendment actually repeats the 8th fully voted, so there's no point in putting it to a vote if the authors don't insist. The 13th Amendment of the People’s Deputies of God’s Word and Horinah Puts the vote to the vote. The committee recommends that we consider it. [[17:16:30.]] For 271 Supported. The 14th Amendment of the People’s Deputies of God’s Word and Horinah The committee recommends that we consider it. Puts the vote to the vote. [[17:16:53]] For – 268 Supported. 15 Amendments, People’s Deputies of God’s Word and Gorina The committee recommends that we consider it. Puts to the vote 15 amendments. [[17:17:15]] For 274 Copy that. The 16th Amendment of the People’s Deputies of God’s Word and Horinah The committee recommends that we consider it. Puts the vote to the vote. [[17:17:35]] For 278 Supported. The 17th Amendment of the People’s Deputy of Gorin. The committee recommends that we consider it. Puts the vote to the vote. [[17:17:55]] For 276 [[B in m in s a l in]] Yuri Anatoliyovich, I understand you have some kind of proposal for a review of the amendments. Please, please, your offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u81	Dear people's deputies, it's me, Yuri Carmazin. I, I asked you, when by 5, 6 amendments one vote for words, replace “contest” with “competition” and “purchasing” and “purchasing”, “purchasing” and “purchasing”, you did not vote. Then you accepted the 10 amendments where you changed those words, but by word of mouth. Therefore, I now propose not to do “Martiskin’s work”, not to do it, it is inappropriate. And now we're looking at revisions, just to see where the notes are. If no comments are made, this is what the Rules provide. Where the rejects, who insists, let's go. Otherwise, we're taking time. Why would you do that? And then let the committee head Osika answer us if we have to, and that's it, we'll take a quick look. Look who didn't see the text, who doesn't know how many amendments, and I remind you that text, thank God, is on 150 pages. For your information, 331 amendments and “Martishkin’s work” are not.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u82	Dear colleagues, I'm voting on a national proposal. Is there no objection? [[B in m in s a l in]] Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u83	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I propose that each of us personally turn to our colleague Zarubinsky right now and ask him to withdraw his proposal for us to vote on each amendment individually. Because, really, it's his right, but also our right to ask him not to waste time, because we have, you see, first of all, all the amendments are going through, and second of all, we have a different understanding. And then, if there's such good will, really, Alexander Volodymyrovich, put to the vote the proposal that we follow the path that we use quite often to consider only those amendments that are not considered by the committee and that are urged by the authors of these amendments. Thank you. Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u84	Oleg Aleksandrovich, do you agree with the proposals made by the National Deputies to consider amendments that the Committee does not recommend including those that are recommended to be taken into account, but what are the questions of the National Deputies? Please, microphone of the Zarubinsky People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want it to be because of my absolutely correct proposal, and it's valid, because there are a lot of questions about this, and you're all talking about it in your own time, and you know that. Because, frankly, it's a quiet mute, and it's not a quiet blur, but some do. But if you have agreed to vote so well together for this bill, which the entrepreneurs are likely to experience, they will soon feel, then they obviously have questions to ask you. If you think you can't keep working because of me, I'm taking down my offer, and more than that, you're perfectly normal, 300 votes, and you're going to continue to vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u86	Please, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u87	Dear colleagues, on such a proposal, I think we should not withdraw the consideration of amendments. If our colleagues have any doubts about the importance of considering amendments, they should be considered. Because I don't think anyone in the room wants to be responsible for the machinations that were done in the Tender Chamber in their own time. And if there is an opportunity to bring order here now, let us work together and resolve any doubts that may arise. Of course, we are not gods here, and to say that we immediately eliminate corruption in such an important area, we are unlikely to be able to do so. And to reduce it considerably, that's what we're doing with you today. And let's work it out, I call you to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u88	Thank you. Dear colleagues, that's what I'm going to call revisions. If there are questions, claims, we discuss and vote. If not, as suggested. Amendment number 18. It is recommended that the committee consider. Is there a denial? None. Amendment 19. It is recommended that the committee consider. Is there a denial? None. Amendment number 20. The committee is invited to consider. Are there any objections to this amendment? None. The 21th Amendment of the People’s Deputy Tereshuk Committee recommends that it be rejected. Is the MP insisting on his amendment? Don't insist. 22 The amendment of the People’s Deputy of Gorina is taken into account by the committee. Is there a objection, a need to discuss? Yes. Please, Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u89	Dear colleagues, as I recall the Codex Budgets, it clearly prohibits non-budgetary funds. However, Amendment 22, which is included, now introduces non-budgetary state and local funds in contravention of Ukraine’s budgetary legislation. Such an amendment cannot be supported, at least in this part. So either we take these funds out of there, and then we vote, or let's work on that text.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u90	Yuri Bogdanovich, I'll finish, it says here that this is about the Agrarian Fund, the Social Protection Fund. Please, Sergey Grigorovitch. Sergey Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u91	Let me remind you that this is about buying at government expense. And as a great expert, you know the difference between budget and government. What we're talking about here is government funds.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u92	Please, Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u93	The 22nd amendment, the fourth line, begins with the third line: “costs of state and local non-budgetary funds”. The same text goes in the third and second from the end of the line on this page in the right column. I want to emphasize once again that there are no such funds, and we're legitimizing them here, and I don't know who needs it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u94	Amendment No. 22 of the People’s Deputy, recommended by the Committee. Puts the vote to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:25:22]] For – 219 The decision is not taken. Please, National Deputy Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u95	Dear colleagues, I don't mind the whole adjustment, it's big. I suggested in this amendment that the words “relative state and local funds” should be deleted. They have no right to exist. They have no right to exist.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u96	As for state funds, do we have state funds that exist? [[Yuri Bogdanovich, I'm sorry.]] The Employment Fund, the Disability Fund, that is, these are also non-budgetary funds. So that we do not get in conflict if we speak. Please, Sergey Grigorovich, your point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u97	I'm sorry. I'll just say from practice, you know, look at the Kyiv area. There's a budget fund in every town. They're giving up, that's another question, I'm saying from what's in life, they're renting land, utilities and so on, they're raising money into these funds. And then they do all the purchases without tenders, where they take off, that's all. Do you want a transparent law? Let's make it clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u98	Dear colleagues, the national deputy Klukkowski proposes that this amendment remove the words relating to non-budgetary costs - "state and local non-budgetary costs". The proposal of the People’s Deputy of Klukkowski is based on the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:27:17]] For 101 Not supported. 22 Amendment of the People’s Deputy of Gorin. The vote on the return to the consideration of Amendment 22 of the People’s Deputies of Gorin. [[17:27:41]] For 273 We're back. Amendment 22 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:27:59]] For 263 The amendment is supported. 23 Amendment, is there a objection? None. 24 Amendments, Is There a Objection? 25 Amendment, is there a objection? 26 Amendment, is there a objection? 27th Amendment of the People's Deputy. Rejected. Is the National MP insisting? Don't insist. 28 Amendment of the People’s Deputy of God’s Word A national MP does not insist. The 29th Amendment of the People’s Deputy of Gorin. Is there a denial? There's a denial. Please, Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u99	Thank you. I just couldn't raise my hand, I want to go back to the 28th Amendment. And I'd like to ask a representative of the committee. We voted on the name of the State Procurement Act, and this was highlighted several times. And now we're predicting that for public procurement, the authorities of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the authorities of local self-government can speak. So, please tell me, in what sense are these going to be government purchases?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u100	In that sense, it is recommended that the amendment be rejected by the committee, and the national deputy does not insist on taking it into account. Amendment No. 28 of the Committees is recommended for deviation and does not insist on consideration. You insist on supporting it or. Please, the microphone of the People's Deputy of Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u101	Alexander Volodymyrovich, I think that for all of us, for all of the Ukrainian national deputies, it is a matter of some degree of honour that the Supreme Council's pens should not come out of the texts of laws for which it is shameful. So once again, if we're saying that the authors, the buyers can be local self-government authorities, that means that the name of the law doesn't correspond to its text, because in the title of the law only government purchases, which means that local self-government can't be regulated by this law. Then, in order to reconcile it, or to return to the name, or to remove local self - government.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u102	How much did Yuri Bogdanovich never make the suggestion that he wanted to put to the vote this amendment, which the committee recommends to reject and no one else insists on it? You insist on voting for her? There's no insistence on a national MP. Amendment number 30. The committee recommends that we consider it. Is there a denial? None. 31st. Is there a denial? 32 revisions. Is there a denial? 32nd. Is there a denial? None. Thirty-three. Is there a denial? None. The 34th Amendment of the People’s Deputy of the God’s Committee recommends a rejection. The MP does not insist, the author of the amendment. Someone insists on voting on this amendment? No, it's not. 35 revisions. The National Deputy of Gorynoi. The committee recommends that we consider it. Is there a denial? None. Thirty-six amendments. The National Deputy of Gorynoi. Is there a denial? None. 37 revisions. The National Deputy of Gorynoi. There's a denial. None. 38 revisions. The National Deputy of Gorynoi. There's a denial. None. The 39th Amendment of the People’s Deputy of Gorin. Is there a denial? None. The 40th Amendment of the People’s Deputy of Gorin. Is there a denial? None. 41 Amendment of the People’s Deputy of Gorin. Is there a denial? None. 42 Amendment of the People's Deputies of Tereshuk. The committee recommends a rejection. The MP doesn't insist. 43 Amendment of the People’s Deputy of Gorin. Is there a denial? None. 44 Amendment of the People’s Deputies of God’s Word, Tereshuk The committee recommends a rejection. The MPs do not insist on this amendment. 46. Amendment of the People’s Deputy of Gorin. Is there a denial? There's a denial. National Deputy Carmazin. Amendment number 46.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u103	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to bring you back to the question that we're already going to have to come to. I would like to point out that paragraph 20 refers to the definition of a public fund manager. These include the authorities of the State, the authorities of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the authorities of local self - government and other bodies of the institutions and bodies defined by the Constitution and other acts of Ukrainian legislation, and the institutions or organizations established by the authorities of the State authorities, the authorities of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, or the authorities of the local self - government, who are authorized to receive public funds, and their undertakings and their associations. [[Comma]] I don't mind this amendment. She's good. And well written. But then it comes into direct contradiction with the name that we voted on. I'd like those authors who offered it now to go back and change the name to the one that was, because it was better thought out, it applied to all the purchases.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u104	Dear colleagues, we have the right to a grant from the state budget. And that's why the local government also receives funds from the government budget and purchases them. Please, National Deputy Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u105	Honourable Alexandre Volodymyrovich, and grants from the state budget, and subsidies from the state budget are at the expense of local self - government. And these budgets in which they are included are self-governing budgets, according to the Ukrainian Budget Code. There's only one problem here. We forgot that local self - government is not a government. And that's why the law should actually be talking about buying for public, not government. Since local self - government costs are public funds, not state funds.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u106	Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u107	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" block. Alexander Volodymyrovich, there's really a problem here, a conflict. You are right that delegated state powers local self-government under this law can carry out. And I'm going to ask you, and the local authorities are going to make their purchases by which to enforce the law? If we have the answer to that question, there is no conflict. And if we don't have an answer, then we have a coalition called this law. And it's probably worth listening to. And obviously the committee has to give an answer. And you also have to have some effect on us to adopt a law that will govern, including the procurement of local authorities. Otherwise, they don't fall for it. And we say we're fighting corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u108	Please, Sergey Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u109	I think it's because of these amendments that we're getting into this area. Because. Then let's actually come back to us. Because I understand, yes, that with good intentions right now it's about getting the law out of the way, the state administrations and so on and so forth. Regions and so on. So I think let's just leave it. And we'll be back before we know it. And I remind you once again, two years of no law is in effect.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u110	Sergei Grigorovitch, Sergei Grigorovitch, thank you. So we'll go back to the name of the law after the amendments. Because the purpose of monitoring the use of all public finances, not just state finances, is, I understand, supported by everyone. We just need to be precise about the wording. You mean there's no objection to the 40th amendment? None. 41 revisions. Is there a denial? There's no objection. 47th. Is there a denial? There's no objection. 48th. Is there a denial? I won't. 49th. Is there a denial? None. 50th. Is there a denial? By 49th objection. People's MP Klukkowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u111	Thank you. I'm afraid I have a terminology objection again. The subject of the complaint is the one who is being complained of, not the one who complains. Therefore, "the subject of the complaint" here is an inappropriate term.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u112	I will ask in preparation for the signing of the law that a thorough expert be made on the relevant terms so that they meet the requirements. 50 repairs. Is there a denial? There's no objection. 51st. Is there a denial? None. 52nd. Is there a denial? None. 53 Amendment of the People’s Deputy of God’s Word The committee recommends a rejection. Does anyone insist on taking this amendment into account? Don't insist. 54 revisions. Is there a denial? None. 55 revisions. Is there a denial? None. 56th Amendment. Is there a denial? None. 57 revisions. Is there a denial? None. 58 revisions. Is there a denial? None. 59th Amendment. The committee recommends a rejection. The People’s Deputy of God’s Word. Please, National Deputy Gritzak.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u113	Alexander Volodymyrovich, can't the Supreme Council go another way? To listen to those MPs who have reservations about the articles, to see those articles where there is a denial, to whom is there a remark and not to read each article?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u114	The Supreme Council may do this, but only by the will of the session hall. So far, it has been my will to go through every correction and, if there is a objection, put to the vote. If your proposal is supported in the hall and no one denies it, we can do it. Is everyone in agreement with the offer of the people's representative of Gretzak? No, no, no. We can't vote if there's a denial of MPs. 60 revisions. Is there a denial? 61st. Is there a denial? 62th, is there a objection? Please, the microphone of the People's Deputy of Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u115	Dear colleagues, 62 revisions are partially taken into account. And it's what's released that's vital. Note that the second paragraph is missing. It's about buying goods and services for the elections. True, there is some cure after another, but the same problem for the next election. A competitive procurement procedure for providing, for example, the activities of the district election boards of the district electoral commission, which is formed only a month before the election, is simply not possible in time. So to get these purchases out of this law is vitally necessary. I would also like to take the second paragraph of paragraph 62 into account by deleting the word “in turn”, i.e. for others.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u116	That's a good enough offer from my point of view. Please, Sergey Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u117	I can explain. We came out of the fact that there's always one customer's procedure for elections. And that is today in the Electoral Law. My personal opinion is that when it comes to order being determined by the Central Election Commission, it defines one customer. If you want to add more to what you said, I don't think we'll be against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u118	Amendment 62 in its entirety puts the vote to the proposal of the People’s Deputies of Klukkowski. [[17:41:48]] For – 207 Offer not supported. [[B in m in s a l in]] This is about this amendment, what the people's MP Klukkowski has proposed, so that we don't only contribute to the elections but to the elections in general. Shopping. For the election to be determined by the Central Election Commission. Please. I am voting for the return to the vote for this amendment. [[17:42:33]] For-103 We're not back. 63 revisions. Is there a denial? There's no objection. 64 amendment. Is there a denial? None. 65. Is there a denial? None. 66. Is there a denial? Yes. Please, People's Deputy Movchan.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u119	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear Sergey Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! I'm paying attention. Your attention to this rule that was in the first edition. adopted in the first reading in an editorial that didn't give me any idea of the motives that Pack was offered to take it off. What is it? This law does not extend to purchases of bookkeeping products purchased directly by libraries. If we're going to run some more rural, circuit libraries. Do you know the state of the library today? She'll be destroyed in the first place. I'm asking you to support me. Reject this standard of Vasil Fedorovich Spak. I don't understand why the committee supported her. She's not motivated. I'm begging you! We're going to have a library case in Ukraine to the end. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u120	Well, there are thresholds here, my friend. There are thresholds here. Well, it's not there. They actually do it on small amounts without any procedures. There are actually thresholds. And this is actually about basic things and so on. About the forms of strict reporting.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u121	66 revisions. Is the MP in silence insisting on the vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u122	Well, I'm explaining that, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u123	Please, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. Sergei Grigorovitch. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u124	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Paul Mikhailovich, Paul Mikhailovich, you are absolutely right, but you did not count one that the law provides for government purchases only where the sum is set at least one hundred thousand dollars. Of course, no rural library has such facilities. That's why I think it's all right. Although the idea is correct, the sum is clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u125	No questions asked. [[B in m in s a l in]] I continue my evening plenary session for 15 minutes. According to the 66th observation of the People's Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u126	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, do you remember when we introduced a national bracelet unit? The state had a tender and chose which country we could make. Right? That's right. Now the question is that in the 66th amendment, delete paragraph 2 on State rewards. I don't think we can rule out this, because there could be an element, a serious element of abuse. Clearly, then, it should be left in the format of the first reading, as it was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u127	Martinjuk Adam Ivanovich on the 66th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u128	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is where we have to be removed, because we have recently passed a perfectly fair law with which we have established that all state awards are made exclusively by the monetary court of the National Bank of Ukraine. Period. There can be no tenders, they are made by only one legal agency.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u129	Don't you insist on voting? No, there will be no more words. It's happening. Take it off. Thank you. 40. 67th, is there a denial? There's no objection. 68th, does anyone insist that it be counted? Please, Mishchenko Sergey Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, I have an offer. We are now voting for amendments to the second article of this law. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that article 92 of the Constitution in paragraph 8 speaks of the legal principles and guarantees of entrepreneurship, competition rules and antitrust rules are established solely by the laws of Ukraine. If we refer the second part of this article to the establishment of such rules by other normative acts, then we give evidence of corruption. Why can't we set, for example, this law order the purchase of financial services from international financial institutions. And so on and on and on and on and on and on. We're not talking about tenders or purchases, why we are. So I am asking to vote on the second article as a whole, taking into account the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u131	Dear colleagues, one second. We've come up with 68 amendments to the bookstore. There is no objection to this amendment? What about her not counting the committee? There's no insistence. Now the question of the second article as a whole. Please, Sergey Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u132	Dear Sergey Grigorovich, I would like to say that international financial institutions, when it comes to purchasing them together with the state of Ukraine, do so on the basis of separate international agreements that you know are provided for in the Constitution. It's a separate order, and it's higher than the law. That is why the committee has predicted this perfectly normal situation that has been taking place in our country for the past 20 years. And we cannot impose rules on all international institutions that finance us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u133	69 revisions. Is there a denial? None. 70 revisions. Is there a denial? None. 71st, is there a objection? Please make an offer to the Osika People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u134	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, please contact us with a request. We've been working on this law for a year and a half, and now there's very little time left, so let's work on it until we accept it. It'll take some time. But it's very important. [[B in m in s a l in]] This is an offer. Why not? It's up to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u135	We had to do this in accordance with the Rules and do it a little earlier, hours by three. Yes, please. People's deputy Davidenko until the '70s.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u136	71st.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u137	Until 71st.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u138	Davidenko, Ukrainian People’s Party This is the case with the air services of the state official delegations headed by the President, the Prime Minister and the Head of the Supreme Council. There is a specially created state-owned enterprise for these airlines. And that's why all of the previous laws had this rule that was excluded from the acquisition of services from the air transport of state-owned official delegations. Here it is suggested that this amendment exclude this rule. And I suggest you don't keep this standard. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u139	71 The amendment of the People’s Deputy of God’s Word is a vote. I'd like to make a statement. The committee recommends recommending. [[17:51:06]] For-100 No correction supported. 72 amendment, is there a objection? Yeah. Please, Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u140	Dear colleagues, let's not send this law into the garbage bin. Because, well, a year, probably people have been working on it, or two years now, people have been working on it for two years. And naturally it happens in the process of relaxing the hall. Because people later don't get to point, they don't get to press the buttons. There is therefore a request to revert to the amendment and to vote again.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u141	Please, Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u142	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think the session room did the right thing by supporting this amendment, not counting. Think about what this is all about. We have a state airline called Ukraine, there are no planes, but there is an enterprise financed by the state budget. The assignment of this state airline is the transport of senior government officials and the tiredness of the number of official delegations. And it's absolutely right that it's excluded from the list of contests. The state budget allocates money, and it creates a unit that specializes in transportation. That this unit should still win the tender for someone else and there other security procedures and so on. I think it's absolutely right that this amendment is now defined as a session hall. Alexander Sergiyovich, do you insist on returning? Please, the microphone of the deputy of Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u143	Alexander Vladimirović, I understand that every amendment was generally handled by experts, then, as I am informed, conducted an internal examination and conducted an examination abroad, and if the experts who studied each letter did not make an amendment, it must be worth it to be included in the case. And right from the summer, we're going to determine by law what kind of amendment is right here, which is wrong, but I don't think anyone has been able to do it in the hall, who hasn't done it directly in the past few months. Therefore, I would suggest that we listen to the experts who have passed this law, so that we make less mistakes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u144	I'll bet you a vote on the return to consideration of Amendment 71. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:53:50]] For 169 We're not going back. There's a denial of 72? None. There are 73, the committee recommends a rejection. National Deputy Zebrovsky, insists? Don't insist. The people's deputy Klukkowski insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u145	Dear Alexandre Volodymyrovich, Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine”. What I'm about to say doesn't need a vote. But I ask you to look closely. There are two amendments to paragraph 15. 73 and 74. Both rejected. Corrections to exclude paragraph 15 does not exist. However, paragraph 15 on the right-hand side does not appear in the right-hand column. So I think for the stenographer to notice that this is a omission in the preparation of the table technical and 15 in the first reading edit move to the right column. This does not require a vote, as there is no such amendment to this paragraph.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u146	Well, it's technical work, here. After the 74th amendment, which committee is recommended to reject, is there an insistence? None. It's the 75th. Is there a denial? None. It's the 76th. Is there any insistence on taking her into account? None. 77th Amendment. Is there a denial? None. 78th. Is there any insistence on taking her into account? None. 79th. Is there a denial? By 79? It's the 80th. Is there a denial? Please respond more quickly. After the 78th amendment of the People's Deputy Committee of the Gods, it recommends that we reject it. National MP Ariev, do you insist on her vote? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u147	I wanted to pay attention, too. The fact is that on the right side of the column there are no goods and services that are purchased directly for the preparation of Ukrainian teams for the Paralympic and Olympic and Paralympic games. I mean, in the final draft of the bill, it disappears. But this is the same situation that my colleague Bogdan Klukkowski was just talking about. But this moment is very important, because the Olympics and the Paralympics, they're doing, they're often using the equipment of certain companies that's bought to make the best preparations. And they really don't need to be expelled. They should really be present in the text of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u148	Well, if there's no proposal for removal, of course it stays where it is. It's the '80s. Is there a denial? Do you have a denial before 79? Please, National Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u149	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I'll draw your attention to paragraph 22 in the left-hand column or 79 in the right-hand column. This is about goods, jobs and services that are purchased by authorities, institutions, educational institutions and businesses of the criminal enforcement system. So those 200,000 people who are in prison, they're producing something. And they, if they're buying from themselves, in a criminal-executive enterprise, they're not being distributed to them, that's absolutely right. Because who will buy them if they can provide for each other. And here this amendment 79 suggests that we rule it out, it's counted. I would ask you not to take it into account, or vote for it, because we will kill to the end and put it entirely on the budget to maintain the criminal execution system. And we even give these people our very efforts to support ourselves. What are we doing? Think of where to get the money for this system. I'm talking, there's a lot of people here who understand me, law enforcement. I'd like to support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u150	Amendment 79 of the People’s Deputy of God’s Word, recommended by the Committee, is a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:58:28]] For 226 Correction supported. Is there a denial of 80 amendments? None. 81st. Is there a denial? None. 82nd. There's no objection. 83rd. Is there a denial? None. The 84th National MP, Davidenko, has been dismissed. Please, the microphone of the People's Deputy Davidenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u151	I would like to point out to my colleagues that after the amendment had been taken into account, which had completely copied the text of this article, very many paragraphs of this article were deleted, including, for example, paragraph 28 of the article, which was designed directly to ensure that measures and official receptions were carried out with the participation of the President of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council and the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And my amendment just continued to complement it, and that same article, it was rejected. And it turns out that the editorial that goes into the third column doesn't take into account the 28 items that are being deleted, it's not deleted, and my amendment, which applies to this, and it concerns the provision of also senior officials who are being protected by the State, and for which special enterprises are being created, as with the Supreme Council, at the Cabinet of Ministers, special enterprises have been created for the organization of these.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u152	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u153	Special companies have been created to provide these services. So it turns out that they're going to have to be put on a tender now so that they can get a tender when they buy these services. This is the same situation that Adam Ivanovich spoke of regarding air travel. So I'm asking you to re-edit 28 points, and I'm also asking you to put my proposal to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u154	Amendment No. 84 of the People’s Deputy Davidenko, recommended by the committee for rejection, is a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[18:00:50]] For the 18th. Not supported. 85 revisions. The committee recommends a rejection. Is there any insistence on taking her into account? None. 86, 87, 88, and up to 98, there are amendments to a number of Ukrainian national deputies. The committee recommends that they be rejected. There's an insistence on taking them into account. Please, National Deputy Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u155	Dear colleagues, I propose that this amendment be supported by many authors, because, first of all, it's clearly worth more than 100,000 dollars. And second of all, these jobs can't be. These services cannot be provided on the basis of competitive procedures, since they involve preparation. retraining specific people for specific professions. There's just not going to be a matching set of so-called competitive proposals here, so this amendment has to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u156	Correction. From the 86th to the 98th, which the committee recommends to reject, is voting. I'd like to make a statement. [[18:02:16]] For the 15th. Not supported. 99 revisions. The committee recommends a rejection. Is there an insistence on accounting? None. 100th. Do you insist on counting? No, it's not. 101st, is there a miscalculation? None. 102th, is there an insistence on accounting? None. 103th. Is there a denial? At the 103th Amendment, the People's Deputy Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u157	Ladies and gentlemen, please see what's proposed to be excluded and let's design this situation for what's been happening to us over the last month. So when there is a need, for example, for the epidemic, to buy medical supplies urgently, we do not have the right to do so. We have to spend at least 30 or 45 days on a tender procedure. During that time, half the people may die, but we will abide by the law. So I ask you once again to look at the contents of the fourth section, which provides for the possibility of a quick purchase, at least for the first batch of essentials. And then we'll do the tendering. I ask you very much to support the fourth part of this article, and I do not support 103 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u158	Sergey Grigorovitch, please, your point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u159	I don't agree with that, because the point is that in case of emergency purchases it's just a decision, either by the government or by another customer, and they're being carried out. And to create a situation where we don't understand the situation in general from under the law, it's unclear. And we say all the time that we want a transparent law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u160	Amendment No. 103 of the People’s Deputy of Gorina, which the Committee recommends to take into account, is a vote. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u161	For! [[18:04:33]] For 241
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u162	Correction supported. 104 revisions. Is there an insistence on accounting? Please, Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u163	Dear National Deputies! Deputy Yuri Carmazin. We have now acted in a transparent way, Mr. Sengory, but foolishly. It's not wise in view of the situation that awaits us, and it's not state-of-the-art in view of the 103rd amendment. At the 104th amendment, the committee did so: it rejected the correction of Suskević, where it was written that the customer preferred the tender offer submitted by enterprises and organizations of public organizations of persons with disabilities, regardless of the amount of the expected cost of purchasing for the purpose of employing persons with disabilities, strengthening the material and technical base of these enterprises and organizations, provided that the undertakings and organizations listed were directly producers of goods, jobs and services that were purchased, and the determined purpose of providing them with State aid in accordance with the Law on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities. Consider: These people do not ask anyone, do so themselves. And we're still beating them. If we accept this rule, it's not the Ukrainian Parliament, it's the Parliament of some Botswana.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u164	104. The amendment recommended by the committee to reject, urged by Yuri Anatolyevich Karmazin, is a vote. [[18:06:18]] For-13. No correction supported. 105 revisions. I'm sorry, National Deputy Suškević, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u165	Alexander Volodymyrovich, I know I'm sitting behind a column, I can't see much. Carmazine's closer, you can see. So I'm asking that sometimes they see me, too, and I'm asking you very much. My amendment, so I probably should have made my case before the vote. It's normal, it fits the Rules. So I want to say in addition to what my colleague Karmazin said. The point is that today disabled businesses have proper control by executive authorities in the form of commissions that make decisions in which preference is given. And in this situation, it's about the fact that for these enterprises, this preference has always been in the past legislation, and in the current legislation. I have a request, and I would like to remind you, by the way, that today is the International Day of Persons with Disabilities, this is the situation, and I want to thank all the national MPs for being involved in the work that solved these problems. Wish them fruitful work in this direction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u166	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u167	And in this situation, I would like to draw attention to the request of more than 400 companies of Ukrainian disabled people's organizations who ask us to leave this preference. A meeting of disabled persons had just taken place, and this was the subject of a meeting, and everyone asked for it to be supported. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u168	I'm betting on the vote on the question of the return to consideration of Amendment 104. I'd like to make a statement. [[18:08:28]] For-42 We're not going back. 105 revisions. Is there an insistence on accounting? None. 106th. Is there a miscalculation? There's a denial, national MP Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u169	Respectable Society! 106 is in principle correct, but it is presented in a very definite form. Here, take a look. Any treaty making is totally prohibited, not according to the procedures provided for by this law, not the grounds, but the procedures. Thus, the 100,000 standard is flattened, there are no exceptions for one customer and one performer, and so on. Therefore, I think it would be necessary here, considering this amendment, to add: “except for the cases established by this law.”
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u170	Sergei Grigorovitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u171	This is a very important norm. And by the way, this law provides for the procedure of the new customer. So that's why it's about the wording that's here. Because in practice it breaks and enters into agreements with reference for any reason not to follow these procedures. You have one more customer, please have a free tender, please, according to its results, so to speak, make a deal. But according to the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u172	Yuri Bogdanovich, do you insist on voting? Please, the keykowski MP's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u173	I want to remind you once again that in this law we have already passed a number of points that indicate that this law does not apply to them. However, this standard requires that we apply the same requirements now and there, since it does not provide for exceptions. So it crosses out the exceptions that are installed there.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u174	Yuri Bogdanovich, it's about the contracts that come out after the trades, not about the others. Including one procedure. Why would we think of that?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u175	Yuri Bogdanovich, do you insist on voting? Amendment No. 106 of the People’s Deputy of Gorina, which the Committee recommends to take into account, is a vote. I'd like to make up my mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u176	For. [[18:11:11]] For 244
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u177	Correction counted. 107 revisions. Is there a denial? None. 108th. There's a denial. 109th. 110th. 111th. 112th. 113th. 114th. 115th. 116. It's recommended to reject. Does anyone insist on counting? None. 117th. Is there a denial? 118th. 119th. 120th. 121st. It's suggested to be rejected. Is there an insistence on accounting? None. 122nd. Is there a denial? None. 123rd. Persistence is to be taken into account? None. 124th. Is there a denial? 124th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u178	Yuri Carmazin. I'd like the committee head to explain the logic, maybe we don't have to vote. The first reading we accepted was this. The name was “The Authorized Authority” and now “the Authorized Authority and the Prosecutor’s Body”. And we add it to the whole body of the charge, although the functions of the authorized body and the body of the charge are completely different in nature. They're, we're saying that the authorized body is the Mineconomy, the body of the prosecution is a little different. Here we go. Yeah, that's different. And here we are in the name of all of a sudden. Explain to me the logic of the committee, I can't understand it. This is article 8. Written. Still counted by text. You agree that these are different functions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u179	Dear colleague, these are different organs.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u180	It's different.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u181	They are just discussed in an article. If it were written here that an authorized body is an organ of complaint, I'd still agree. And here it is: the authorized body and the prosecution body. It's an organ of complaint. And because it is, of course, they do. to interact, then, as part of an article.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u182	Do you insist on voting? No, it's not. 125 revisions. Is there a denial? 126th. Is there an insistence on accounting? Please, the microphone of the People's Deputy Davidenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u183	Despite the fact that this amendment is quite short, its contents are much larger. The point is that the way in which the responsibility for making a decision is blurred is to ask the authorized authority whether it is possible to apply the procedure with one participant or with limited participation, is to blur responsibility. In doing so, some decisions need to be made. I propose, however, that the tendering committee itself apply the procedure of one participant or with limited participation, and the authorized authority only controls the decision-making process. That's why I suggested we exclude these from the text of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-03-m1.u184	Amendment 126 of the people’s delegate Davidenko, recommended by the committee for rejection, is a vote. [[18:15:11]] For-19 Correction not supported. Dear colleagues, we're running out of time for today's work. Tomorrow we will begin the morning plenary session with information from the Minister of Labour and Social Policy. The second issue we will consider, if the committee is ready, the draft Act amending the State Budget Act this year. And then we'll go back to the second reading of this law for final decision. The first amendment of 127 will be discussed tomorrow in this law. The morning plenary session is closed. Good luck. Excuse me. Evening plenary meeting. Evening.
