ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[Registration of Ukrainian National Deputies]] [[10:02:13]] The 429 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the national deputy Derkasz Mikli Ivanovich, who was 60 years old. Let us welcome him, wishing him good health and success in his work. [[Applause]] And now I'm giving you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary on June 24, 2009. 14 questions on the agenda have been considered: three bills and one draft decree have been adopted on a basis; three bills have been sent for re-reading; and six bills have been rejected. Dear colleagues, the meeting schedule for today is Thursday. Please register to exchange information about the organization of our work, please. Dear colleagues, yes, signed up. Victor Terrence, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u2	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Please give it to Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u3	Ivan Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u4	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, we have just placed on the chair of the chairman's request to take a break, please take a break. [[statements by two factions – “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” and “The Block of July Timoshenko”]] We will not ask for half an hour of precious time, but we have prepared a statement so that after we have exchanged our thoughts, our colleague Yavorowski will be able to make our demands for the unprecedented facts that occurred yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u5	People's deputy Beales, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u6	I'd like to give Catherine the Semenovna Samojlik.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u7	Katerina Samuelk, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u8	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'm still down there, if you don't mind. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I address you personally and not only to you, to all factions. You know, what a disaster, really, the Herson Combin Factory, a machine factory where people haven't been getting a single piece of wages in a year, where people are thrown out of the walls of this factory, where people are refused to live in dormitories at all, have light and water. I understand that the owner, he refers to the Party of Regions, I understand that he needs to be protected here. But tell me, who will protect a few thousand combine builders? I'm asking you very much to consider this.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u9	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u10	So that we can consider the question of returning to the state property of this plant and. Because we see that the owner is unable to control, he's practically just doing that, that he's exporting metal and throwing people out of the factory walls. Please raise this bill above.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u11	Valery Bondick, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u12	Honorable Predestination! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! You know, once you've got this agenda, well, with respect to you, your Honorable Presidium, but I don't know why the agenda is so politicized. Why there are no urgent bills that we make together with our colleagues. Remember our law when we voted for dead miners -- making changes to the CDC, the CDC and other legal acts. He won 250 votes in the hall. Sergei Mishchenka's committee offered to bring him in, but unfortunately, I don't see him here. And secondly, Vladimir Mikhailovich. These are a few thoughts about the publications that are now being read in the press. You know, what was created in the Golovani region of Kirovograd needs our immediate response by means of parliamentary control, and if there is a Lukyanov decision to create a temporary commission of inquiry, it needs to be voted on, because yesterday in the media I read stupid things that happened. So now I want to make an appearance with respect and according to the legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u13	Finish up, please. An appearance. Hurry up.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u14	And according to the legislation of my appearance, the prosecutor has to file a case of fact. The guy who was giving 200 bucks was me. Along with Lucien, the motive was quite different. When we saw this delicate, normal woman, the farmer who was working this garden, we gave some help for the funeral. And there were no guns. A man has been made a criminal, he has no idea what it is. The idea of a gun. And so I ask you to consider my appearance with due consideration, Henprosecutor, to file a criminal case. I'll give a nice witness and give any testimony. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u15	Is that a question? Don't tell me, don't you? I'd like to ask respectable colleagues and respectable colleague Bondik to read the meeting schedule before then. The bill is included in the session schedule, 1140. Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u16	Dear Mr. Head, I'm going to make a three-minute statement, and so far I'd very much like it to be included in the transcript of the plenary session. In March, I filed a bill on restrictions on MP's benefits. A normal, civilized law that circumcises those extra, totally feudal benefits that MPs can and should refuse. At the meeting of the regulatory committee in my presence, I was told that the bill was approved. However, in a short time, I receive a letter from the chairman of this committee explaining to me that the bill has been rejected. In any situation, whether it is approved or rejected -- although it is a total falsification of the fact itself, on the Conciliation Council, I asked you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to include this bill in the agenda of the day, but not this week -- I understand that we may not have made it, nor is the next week of this bill. I demand -- this is my MP's right and duty -- for the next week, against the head of the committee that blocks this bill, to put it in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts on how to organize our work. With regard to the last observation by Vladimir Aleksandrovitch Yavorowski, I had indeed, literally yesterday, a decision by the committee, a recommendation by the committee, and acted in accordance with the Rules Committee's decision. I would ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the secretariat of the Committee on Rules to study this issue and give a clear interpretation of the decisions that have been proposed on the bill by Vladimir Alexanderovich Yavorowski. Regarding Catherine Semenovna Samuelk, of the Herson machine factory We included this issue, put the vote to the vote on inclusion in the agenda. Sadly, the Supreme Council of Ukraine did not support him. So I think at the Conciliation Board meeting we're going to discuss this proposal in order to get the required number of votes and go back to the subject. And today the question is that this is included in the chapter: the return to previously unsupported drafts. All we have to do is consult with the factions. Dear colleagues, another in line with the Conciliation Council decision, we would today, once the Budget Code has been voted in the new edition, consider the 2008 budget implementation report of the Cabinet of Ministers, the 2009 budget implementation information, and the main directions of the budget resolution. The government asked to postpone the consideration of this issue to the next week in order to finalize the draft document, namely, the main directions of budgetary policy for the following year, taking into account the decision taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the form of the new Budget Code. And for this reason, I had a conversation this morning with the Prime Minister of Ukraine, and she's asking for support from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, although it's clear that we've already committed ourselves to this issue. I would like to make an understanding of such an offer. And finally, two factions filed for recess. They are willing to give up the break on one condition that they will be able to make statements on what they called for breaks, namely the BUT factions and our Ukraine-National Self-Defense factions and the Lithuanian Block factions and the Communist Party factions. If there's no objection, let's take three minutes to make a statement so that we can continue our work. Vladimir Yavorowski for the first statement, please. Who will act?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u18	Dear, distinguished voters, honourable Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, political life in Ukraine as the presidential election approaches, is getting more and more dirty and unbearable. Literally, if there was one scandal there once a week, it's now two, three in one day. The First Scandal: The Watcher newspaper, the Watcher site, has been published by other publications literally throughout the Internet, today the Komsomol Truth reported on the fact that bills were passed in the Supreme Council on Tuesday to amend the judiciary, which introduce not one Ukrainian national language, but two languages. That's not true, that's a lie. First of all, the Supreme Council has not considered these bills. Second, the author is Koleshnenko, one of the authors is Koleshnenko. These bills were rejected on the committee. And second of all, they didn't come into the session room. We claim this on behalf of NUNS, on behalf of the “Julia Timoshenko Block” and on behalf of the “Lithuania Block”. We did not vote in favour of such a bill, so we turn to our voters: this is provocation. And we demand that the same “Obiza”, from the “Comsomolian Truth”, correct this lie because of the law that was in force. Again, he did not attend the session at the Supreme Council, and he was not considered here. Second action. Yesterday, an episode was absolutely unprecedented, such as it does not seem in Ukraine that prosecutors would literally break into the office of the first Deputy Minister of Justice of Korniyczuk of the “Blok Ulia Timoshenko” and present some completely unauthorized paper to conduct a search in his office. Can you imagine that in a civilized country half civilized so that it could happen? And when they've been proven that this search warrant is invalid, they're on their knees right now, and they're on their knees rewriting a completely different charge. It's a good thing it's over, but we're saying it's unbearable. This is now a settlement, a political settlement, first and foremost. And what the Attorney General is allowing himself today, which is fully serving today, either south of the President or south of the Party of Regions, are things that are unacceptable. They lower Ukraine to the very bottom of civilization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u19	Since the name Vadim Koleschenka was given in the presentation, please refer to it. Vadim Koleschenko and then Polishchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u20	Thank you. Party of regions, Vadim Koleznichenko. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Mr. Yavorivsky had indeed said the pure truth: the parliamentary majority of the oranges had blocked the action of the Party of the Regions to protect human rights to use the mother tongue in all spheres of life. Indeed, more than 20 bills have been drafted by the faction of the Party of the Regions, which are not being tabled because they are being blocked by the majority. However, I tell the representatives of our people that in the near future, the power in the country is being changed and the laws protecting human rights in the Russian language will be protected in the national languages. Therefore, I draw the attention of the representatives of the so-called ruling coalition to consider and protect human rights. In the coming days, let us finally vote in Parliament on those laws that will restore stability to our State and ensure its diversity in its unity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u21	National MP Polishchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u22	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, the faction of the Block of Lithuania, taking advantage of its ability, wants to make a statement on many of the many citizens' appeals about the deep concern about the situation that has arisen in the system of conductive speech in Ukraine. Today this is the most massive and accessible source of public radio programs is in critical condition. The lack of funding has prevented the operation of a large part of the air transmitters. The network of live language is constantly shrinking, which in many parts of Ukraine, especially in the countryside, is the main means of spreading information. In recent years, the number of subscribers has dropped from 16 million to 3.5 million. This means that the only radio speaker on our air, who systematically and consistently protects national interests, contributes to the consolidation of Ukrainian society, the confirmation of the feeling of patriotism, respect for Ukrainian cultural and language history, is actually being pushed into the periphery of information space. A particular concern is that the attack on the state radio is taking place in parallel with the violent and virtually uncontrollable development of air-commercial speech networks that are far from our national interests. We demand that further destruction of the conductive language be halted, resulting in Ukraine’s final loss of this important state instrument. Commercial interests cannot be allowed to be higher than the public interests and interests of our citizens, especially those of older people, many of whom are or are not the only sources of information, including the work of the Supreme Council, because the radio is still the main means of broadcasting plenary sessions to Parliament. It should also be noted that the public radio network is also a means of alerting citizens in emergency situations. Thus, the destruction of this network poses real threats to the national security of the State. In view of the urgent need for policy-making in the area of public radio broadcasting, the Lithuanian bloc considers it necessary to develop and approve a comprehensive programme on government level to modernize networks of communication networks. Such a programme should, inter alia, provide for measures: the creation of a separate state structure to ensure the operation of a cable radio in order not to allow for the eventual destruction of the network during the future privatisation of VAT by the ‘Sharp’; the resolution of the issue of the restoration and extension of the radio networks, including through a compatible transmission of the wires on the basis of electricity networks; the unconditional compliance with the building standards and rules on the radio broadcasting of buildings that are being constructed; and the provision of the production of cable radio receivers. Our deep conviction, the delay in solving the problems of the radio network, is unacceptable because it poses real threats to information and Ukraine’s national security. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u23	Thank you! Dear colleagues! Taking into account the suggestions made in the presentations, I ask the secretariat to prepare appropriate assignments and letters. Dear colleagues! We have nearly seventy questions to consider today. You understand how much this is, so there's a big request and a proposal, first, that we work quickly, and secondly, I'll put it to the vote to consider the issue of a reduced procedure, otherwise we can't do anything in the plan that we're going to do today. I'm voting on the proposal to review draft short-term bills, except clearly for the second reading. Please support this proposal. [[10:21:31]] For 186 Decision taken. Thank you. A draft decree on the calendar plan for the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call is announced for consideration. [[Registration number 4715]] The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u24	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! At its meeting on June 24, this year, the Committee reviewed the draft calendar plan for the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call. According to the requirements of part seven of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the project was previously directed to the MP factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The committee received proposals from the party’s MPs and the Communist Party of Ukraine. The National Deputies, members of the Committee, made a proposal for a draft calendar plan, namely, that in December 2009 a week from 21 to 25 should be set aside for plenary meetings instead of the work of national deputies with voters, and in January 2010 a week from 4 to 8 should be set aside for the work of national deputies with voters instead of plenary meetings, a week from 11 to 15 to work on committees, commissions and factions, a week from 18 to 22 to spend on plenary sessions. In accordance with the requirements of part one of article 83 of the Constitution, the draft calendar plan proposes that the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine be held in plenary on September 1, 2009, and that the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine be concluded on January 22, 2010. During this time it is available for plenary work – 10 weeks, 7 weeks – for committees and commissions, and factions 4 weeks – for the work of national deputies with voters, and for 10 hours for questions to the government in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The committee decided to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft decision of the Supreme Council on a calendar plan for the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call, review and support. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, no objection to recommending a decision? Please, Knyazevich. Do you have any suggestions or anything? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u26	Alexander Sergiyovich, I have a faster question, but perhaps as an offer. The point is, we're starting a session on September 1st, as the Constitution requires, on September 1st, but we're making it a week away from a session so that it doesn't happen that we're just going to have an empty room this week. We know that after a trip, after a vacation, MPs usually come when the sessional week begins. Frankly, I don't remember the first week being non-sessional. It can do this to make it sessional, because that's when there might be an angel in the hall, and then work in the usual mode or vice versa, if we leave it alone, or if we don't have a situation like this, we're going to open a session in a semi-empty room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u27	Yesterday we discussed this issue at a meeting of the Committee and all the colleagues who had been working since the first meeting of the Supreme Council confirmed that this is traditionally the Supreme Council starting to work on the first day of work, then in order to streamline the drafts under consideration, work on the committees and then the plenary meeting is already beginning. Therefore, there was no money here, and a decision was taken on the basis of the traditional situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u28	Thank you. Dear colleagues, other warnings, no suggestions? Carpupuk, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u29	Vladimir Karpuk “Our Ukraine” MP group “For Ukraine”. The calendar plan for the fifth session is to hold as many as 10 hours of questions to the government. The new Supreme Council Rules were also foreseen for this session, but virtually no such hours were spent. And that's why the question to you is, to the head of the Regulatory Committee. What is the reason for this, and are you sure that 10 questions will be answered to the government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u30	The Regulatory Committee has the right to plan only on the basis of what is in the Rules. This rule is enshrined in the Rules, so we cannot move away from it, and we plan to do so. Next, the Supreme Council will decide which final decision will be taken. If we decide on Fridays that what is in the Rules is to be heard by the Government's reports, this will be done. To date, I understand that agreed decisions have not been taken on this issue, so this rule of the Rules is not working.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u31	Silent Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u32	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, Reverend Alexander Sergiyovich. You have just witnessed how a language issue that has not been settled for 13 years after the adoption of the Constitution of Ukraine is provocative all the time. And that's why I think it would be appropriate to put a dot and adopt those bills that are already being discussed and approved by the committees, particularly those of culture and spirituality. And I would like these two, three bills of the Law on the Status of Ukrainian Language as a State Language, the Language Law and the Concept of Language Policy in Ukraine to be included in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u33	You know this is decided by the Conciliation Council. If she makes the right decision, it will be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, the proposal for a committee to approve the Supreme Council of Ukraine draft decree on the calendar plan for the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call. Registration number 4715. Please vote. [[10:28:52]] For 384 I'll take the order. The draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on National Identity in Ukraine in Globalization Challenges: Problems and Ways of Preservation is announced for consideration. [[November 2009]] [[4297 Registration Number]] Dear colleagues, let's do this way, if there are no warnings, we will make decisions, because parliamentary hearings have been held. The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Pavel Mikhailovich Movchan. Please. Oh, I'm sorry, this is about the parliamentary hearing. Please, Paul Mikhailovich, please. Very short.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u35	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The explanatory note you received in your hand is a justification for the need to adopt this legal act. Because globalization processes are the realities of our day. The spread of these technologies in the world is objective and universal in nature and motivates all national cultures to apply them actively. Globalization is marked by both positive and negative phenomena, including cultural unification, mental colonialism, feelings of inferiority, and conformism. Globally unified cultural conditions certainly envision the spread of false cultural values, and what is the worst thing about them being imposed through the media. National values are subject to audits and submersibles, which we are witnessing, including almost every national television channel. The consequences of globalization pose a huge threat to all national cultures in Ukraine, especially those unestablished and underprotected, which, unfortunately, is still Ukraine. And that's what we dedicated parliamentary hearings to a few years ago, where we discovered a whole series of negative phenomena. Overcoming these negative consequences of globalization is possible in a consistent state-level, effective and purpose-oriented cultural and language policies. The national state must act as a guarantor of the preservation of social, ideological, cultural, moral values that ensure the identity of the indigenous nation, particularly the Ukrainian nation. Since the problem of preserving national identity as an indispensable component of the opposition to globalization processes requires immediate response from society and the state, we consider it necessary to bring this problem to a broad discussion within the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The purpose is to hold parliamentary hearings on the subject: “National identity.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u36	The ability to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u37	there are reasonable, constructive, agreed proposals for the production of principles of national and language policy in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u38	Thank you, Paul Mikhailovich. Please sit down. Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, please make the decision of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u39	Dear voters, distinguished national electorate and honourable Mr. Head! The Committee on Culture and Spirituality, as well as the “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, support the holding of these hearings. Let me give you a brief explanation of why. We do a lot of listening. They have a very good social resonance. Professionals come to this room on a particular subject. Any person can actually come in to or to listen, at best to participate and to express his or her opinion, his or her position. Then we accept the relevant documents, the decisions. They're going through harder or easier, that's another question. But we tend to be focused. And it's perfectly natural in the economic conditions that Ukraine has today, in the context of that crisis, it's usually the problems that we bring here, the social problems, the economic problems, the environmental problems. And that's very normal and natural. But I am convinced that these hearings will only adorn the image of the Supreme Council that we are going to cover one colossal subject, a colossal problem that is now being cared for, actually, by all the developed and less developed nations. Under the conditions of globalization, when national faces are wiped out, when even borders themselves are often wiped out, today every nation is thinking about how to preserve its identity. And as Ukrainians, we should know and remember that we are not quick, or we may never catch up with the Japanese in the release of our computers. We'll never catch up, or if we catch up, without us, the Germans in the release of cars and all that. That's why we're interested in the world with our national face, our national authenticity, our history, our culture, our art. Because of what is being proposed today, we consider it very appropriate. If you want, it's really going to be in some way. That our parliament isn't only able to scream and fight and stuff.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u40	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u41	And to focus Parliament on such very serious, global, planetary problems. We ask for support, the Yulia Timoshenko Block and the Committee on Culture and Spirituality fully support these hearings.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, no warning to put the vote to the vote? Please sign up for two minutes. Oh, two minutes, two minutes, two minutes, no, please. Put on the board the names of the national MPs who sign up for the performance. Jaroslav Kenzier and Gnatkovic. You'll have one minute, it will. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u43	Jaroslav Kenzior, MP “For Ukraine!” The need to hold parliamentary hearings on the very subject proposed by the Ukrainian national deputy Paul Mokchan is, literally, urgent. Watching what's happening today in Ukraine, and these last speeches by Ukrainians, including from the rostrum of the Supreme Council that we've been listening to, and listening to all of Ukraine, can't help but cause concern when we, Ukrainians, the conscious part of Ukraine, which is what the Ukrainian people want to call Ukrainians, here are Ukrainians who want to destroy to the last; and Ukraine should be a simple territory in their minds, and the Ukrainian people should become the population that lives in this area. This problem, to the honor of the Ukrainian Parliament, must be given great attention. And that's why I'm asking colleagues, national MPs, who have at least a little bit of national identity, and who are in pain for the fate and future of the Ukrainian state, and who want to see their nation as a nation with their values and ideals, and that doesn't mean that in this country, as it were, they won't have any rights as representatives of others, so to speak, with another national origin, we all have to form a political nation in Ukraine, we all have to feel like citizens of the full, full-fledged Ukrainian nation. And that's why I'm asking you to support this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u44	Yuri Gnatkević, please, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u45	The honourable parliamentary community, the question put to the parliamentary hearings, is really important. We usually think that social issues are the most important. And that's true. But today we see that the national problem is the most acute. Today, even in our discussions, we cannot get to the precise definition of the terms we use. For example, we use the words “Ukrainian people”, “Ukrainian ethnicists”, “Ukrainian nations”. Are they synonymous or not? Our Communist friends often use the term “the people of Ukraine” rather than “the Ukrainian people”. Was it random or not? When I passed my language bill, I read in a newspaper that I was “unknowable of the miracle of being preserved, of the crown of a more outlaw.” But I'm not a gangster, I'm just a Ukrainian nationalist like a Ukrainian patriot. The ethnocultural typology of modern Ukraine and Ukrainian society is extremely complex. I know Greeks who no longer associate themselves with being Greek. Many Ukrainians no longer associate themselves with Ukrainian culture and language. The Razumkov Institute provided research that only four percent of Ukrainians in Crimea, who say they are Ukrainian, and only four percent identify themselves with Ukrainian and Ukrainian culture. And in this sense, it's worth asking the scientific question, aren't they Ukrainian or Ukrainian? The same can be said of a multimillion - dollar army of Ukrainians who no longer communicate or identify themselves with this language. What is “the Ukrainian ” as a term? But it's not that it's called Ukrainian Petrenko, Ivanenko, Simonenko, or even Chevchenko, but that it's someone who feels like a cell of a Ukrainian national organism that feels the pain of that organism, which protects everything Ukrainian -- its language, its culture -- and not poisons them from the Ukrainian organism. Unfortunately, we really should.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u46	Thank you. Thank you, time's up. Thank you. Thank you! And thank you again. Please have a seat. Vadim Koleschenko, one minute. And because from the faction, if you didn't sign up, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u47	Dear colleagues! As always with the rights of the people, we have a bad time because there is no time limit. I would consider it necessary to ask the question of ignoring the cultural and multinational people of Ukraine in the form of a struggle for national identity in Ukraine. Did we hear our heads on our feet ask what we were talking about? That's right. Finally, you finally heard the Russian language, thank you. Ukraine is now suffering and is a species of debilitating polyculture. The Hungarian, Ukrainian, Ukrainian communities are addressing you. Hear us! You're destroying Ukraine! Filthy blondes are destroying the future of our country. Hungarian, Romanian. Russian communities have appealed to the European Parliament for cynically ignoring their rights to your mother tongue and culture. Therefore, we will not support such fascist projects that ignore human rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u48	The draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on “National Identity in Ukraine in Globalization Challenges: Problems and Ways of Preservation” is put to the vote, November 2009. [[Registration number 4297]] [[10:41:37]] For 230 I'll take the order. Dear colleagues, I beg you, I beg of you, calm down! What is wrong with discussing the problem? Why is this “disgusting ”? Calm down! It will be possible for each person to express his or her point of view. What are you talking about? Dear colleagues. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, “Club of Timoshenko” – 147, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 65, Communists – 0, “Club of Lithuania” – 17, non-fractional – 1. Thank you. I turn to all of you once again. Names weren't called, nothing to talk about. Do not disturb the Supreme Council of Ukraine. All right, we've considered the subject. We've closed it. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee has proposed to consider a draft order for the removal of certain bills on taxation issues. This is registration number 4670. But since the drafters deny such an initiative by the committee, there is a request not to consider the draft. Is there no objection? A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009 is being announced for consideration. [[on the minimum cost of living and the minimum wage]] The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. And from the committee, who will be speaking? Oleg Lazko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u49	Thank you. The honourable national deputies of Ukraine, the law that has been passed for your consideration, are very important. And I'd like you and I to consider this very carefully. And given the fact that there has just been a meeting of the Committee on Budgets and the questions raised by the Ukrainian National Deputies, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there are two things that need to be distinguished. The first is the maintained social standards, which are the subsistence minimum, which is a completely objective indicator, which is based on the consumer basket, and based on state statistics at the prices of food, non-food and services. Why is this bill now being submitted in June of this year? Because the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine did not publish the actual size of the subsistence minimum. By the way, all previous years we've always adjusted in the middle of the year, coming from the actual size of the minimum of living and making changes to the State Budget. After my appeal to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, I am grateful to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, on 19 June of this year, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy published the actual size of the living minimum. So in the bill that you're proposing, the amount of living minimum is based on data from the government of Yulia Volodymyrina Timoshenko. That is, the data that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy published. It is suggested that, on the basis of this size of the subsistence minimum, changes be made to the State Budget. Taking into account the other laws of Ukraine, which establish that a minimum pension is set to the minimum of living for disabled persons, it should be adjusted for pensions. And given that the minimum wage we also have under the law is set at the minimum of living by the end of this year to the minimum of living. I would like to thank you and ask that we all support this bill. Yes, please, from the Oleg Lazko committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u50	Dear Mr. Golovo, the honourable colleagues are the national deputies, who have just held a meeting of the Committee on Budgets, where this bill has been considered. The committee decided by a majority to set up a working group to comprehensively develop changes to the budget in part of raising social standards. Because the bill that you've just proposed for your consideration needs an additional budget of 37 billion dollars. In particular, to increase the size of government social assistance, which depends on the minimum cost of living, 800 million dollars; to increase the minimum wage, 24 billion dollars; and to increase the budget of the Pension Fund, 8 billion dollars; to pay government social assistance to low-income families, based on the minimum wage, 5 billion dollars, totalling 37 billion dollars. Please. I will express my opinion and the position of the faction of this bill during the discussion of this bill. And the position of the committee, I have informed you that the committee does not support this bill, instead proposes to set up a working group to do so. You are making complex changes to the Budget Act in part of increasing social standards, because the adoption of this law in the form proposed by your colleague Papiev will lead to a full balance between local budgets and the state budget. Two thirds of the cost of this 38 billion will have to be sought in local budgets, where you know there is no money. Therefore, the hall must take a responsible approach to this vote and not engage in populism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u51	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion. It's a recording. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Mikhailo Chechetov, then Eugene Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u52	I'd like to give you a word. Pass the word to the bagel.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u53	Alexander Pecklushenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u54	Respectable voters, respectable colleagues! The law passed by my colleague Papiev is a basic fate law, and it determines the situation in the country for each individual individual. What does the Party of the Regions say? The Party of the Regions said that there was a complete economic and budgetary collapse in the country, that economic governance was without steering and wind. In this regard, Vladimir Mihajlovich, I appeal to you: in order to stabilize the situation, it is not an accident that the Government's report on the 2008 budget was put on the agenda. It's not just a report, it's a mistake report, it's an answer to our colleagues, where to take the money. Stealing less is the first answer. In this situation, I would like to hear, Vladimir Mihajlovich, you have repeatedly accused the opposition of disrupting the Government's 2008 work report. What opposition has today brought this issue to the fore? The second moment is very important. Our colleague Papiev said that according to the Constitution, every employee today needs to increase his salary by 200 bracelets, each pensioner by 100. Who objects, who can say against the law? So admit the first fact: 12 billion a barrel! You don't know where to take them. Get out of power. We have people who know how to find 12, 25 and 30. If you don't have money for people, why do you have money to make Naftogazu 18 billion dollars, the Ministry of Defense for a quarter billion? End the country's garbage! Either do as you're told, or collect the monats!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u55	Eugene Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u56	Kirilchuk, Timoshenko Street. This is a pompous speech before this, and he was at the Budget Committee meeting, but no one said why when they were in government and the author was in charge of the ministry with these problems, they didn't increase, but on the contrary, they cut down on these social standards. And now we're being asked to completely balance the budget system, to collapse and then to blame the coalition and the government today. Well, unless it's written in white threads, it's even nice, simple people understand everything. We're not against such an ideology that social standards need to be increased, and, of course, the government of Yulia Timoshenko is constantly at these positions, but 37.5 billion. [[the author should be told where to take them and how to balance the budget]] That's why today, at a budget committee meeting, a decision was made to pass this law on to a working group that needs to be set up immediately with the government and a comprehensive review of the budget change with an increase in social standards for the population. So we have to do smart, deep and not do anything, talk about cheap populism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u57	National Deputy Ariev, faction "Our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u58	Dear colleagues! By the time the election campaign actually started today, everyone wants to really like the electorate, it's perfectly clear, because everyone has to fight for the vote. But, as my colleague Oleg Lazko rightly said, today, 37 billion additional bracelets are not just balancing, it will break the state budget. Where did you get this money, somebody counted it? If we adopt this law today, we can say that the budget does not exist in Ukraine, it will be completely broken, balanced and people will actually get nothing. That's it. If we take populist action today, it will only lead to the destruction of Ukraine. And if the Party of Regions, the distinguished representatives of the Party of Regions and are concerned about the people who are passing such bills, I want to remind you, you have the largest number of billionaires and millionaires in the faction. And if they drop, it's going to be much more than 37 billion dollars, and they're going to give it to the people, so do it this way, not do it populism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u59	Question completed. Adam Martinyuk one minute, please. It's called Laško, which is where he called his last name. Before the vote, there will be a government. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you to calm down. I'm following the Rules. If you don't like anything, do it in a certain way. Don't name it. Please, Adam Martinyuk. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, calm down! Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u60	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, you can talk about balance, balance, I want to see how those colleagues who are saving for budget balance are now going to shout what needs to be given, because there are changes in the budget that the government is making, and I'm going to see how Easy is going to scream that these expenses need to be made. I'll call the other numbers. Today, according to a living minimum of 3.2 kilograms per month, 21 kilograms per month were given to a German military prisoner in the Soviet Union, potatoes today – 7-9, the German captive Soviet Union gave 18 kilograms per month, fish – 0.8 kilograms per month, German military captive – 3.6 kilograms of meat – 0.33 today, the Germans received 1.2 kilograms. [[prisoners of war]] Think about these numbers and then think about what to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u61	Thank you. One minute, line, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u62	Dear friends, before the 2006 elections, the Children of War Act was passed in this room. There was also a beautiful talk of how to protect children of war, but neither in the 2006 budget nor in the 2007 budget did any amount for children of war. But before the elections, we would drive and say, “We, dear children of war, protect you.” That's exactly the same thing, fooling people's heads. People are good! Don't worry about those promises, 37 billion dollars a salary, where are they going today? In silrada for eight months only. Let's hang more expenses on them, and what are they going to do? They're not going to pay that salary at all. What are you doing?Oh, my God! We and this populism have already passed laws -- 200 billion dollars is not being paid. But we want people to like us! Don't vote for this law, it's a crime against people! And don't cover up with populism!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u63	The discussion is over. Please, Miarkovsky Anatoly Ivanovich, position of government.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u64	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The government supports the proposal voted on by the budget committee today, which refers to the need to prepare comprehensive changes to the budget. That is, if we increase social guarantees, we need in the budget add-ons to write the corresponding budget assignments both by the state budget schedules and increase the corresponding transfers to local budgets. So if we're going to do that, this law is not even formally possible to be implemented, because there's no change to the third appendix and to the seventh appendix. Our proposal is to create a working group and prepare complex changes, including sources and local budgets. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u65	Dear colleagues! The bill is closed. The committee's proposal is to set up a working group and, at the same time, in accordance with the Rules, I will put to the vote the first proposal on acceptance as a basis. If this proposal does not receive support, then there will be a working group. In any event, if voted on as a basis, the second reading will be prepared by either the committee, or a working group, which will be created by the committee together with the government. Is that a good offer? That is why I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2009. [[on the minimum cost of living and the minimum wage]] [[Registration number 4557]] Please vote. [[10:58:47]] For 243 The bill was adopted as a basis. [[Applause]] By factions, please: Region Party – 172, "Block of Timoshenko" – 0, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" – 25, communists – 27, "Block of Lithuania" – 19, non-fractional – 0. What is it? Yes. Dear colleagues, we're moving on. We need to take a moment to consider the issue of inclusion in the agenda, please. What? Dear colleagues, I'm not going to put it all together, I'm going to propose that you put 1,500 dollars, because 830 is small, let them process and make calculations as required by the law. What? That's another question. Here's an offer, please. This calls for a reduction in the consideration of the matter, that is to say, by voting. I'm asking you to calm down. I'm voting on the commission of the committee to prepare him for the next plenary week, please be sure. [[11:00:24]] For 215 By factions, please: Region Party – 171, "Block of Timoshenko" – 0, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" – 17, communists – 27, "Block of Lithuania" – 0, non-fractional – 0. I'm talking about you, dear fellows. I'm asking you to calm down. The next week of committee work, there are 14 days, I ask you to calm down and not speak. Jaroslav Mikhailovich, I ask you, dear colleagues, to calm down. When it comes to cynicism, I want to say, when the living minimum was 237 and they did 205, it was cynicism. Calm down! You guys calm down! Advocacy for consideration, fellows of honor! [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, one minute. [[B in m in s a l in]] I know, I'll put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u66	Thank you. Colleagues! I'm not going to advertise BET, because there, clearly, they can't vote for it, they're told that. But what I'm trying to say is, people are dying! The people die at 106 grams of bread a day, and you make a beautiful face that protects a budget. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I remind you, you were then Head, 205 and 237 is not a living minimum, it was a minimum wage to ask the heads of the district councils, the counties and the local budgets did not draw that figure. At least the latter was brought into this session hall by two deputies: Kirilenko Viacheslav and Viktor Yushchenko, who gave a specific figure. No one has ever done that since. Why are you afraid to vote on this bill as a whole? Who are you saving? Look what is happening to us and the people!? What Is Happening in Hospitals?Oh, my God! Where can you live like this? We're deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u67	I, my dear fellows, will continue to work, because you've been addressing me again, I mean, my position is to vote on this law in general and pass it on. On one condition, on one condition, to hand over the authority of the Party of Regions that this will be done. But you are well aware that if you have not done anything about humans by this time, you will not continue to do so. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please calm down. Dear colleagues, we now need to consider the issue of inclusion in the agenda and decision-making. For inclusion in the agenda and decision-making. It is about the inclusion in the agenda of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009 for inclusion in the agenda. [[on the promotion of the military-industrial complex]] [[Registration number 4697]] What? Well, please take it off the vote. With a motive, please. Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u68	Oleg Laszko “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, our faction will support this bill, which is aimed at the development of the domestic military industry. But we suggest that you also make a proposal for inclusion in the agenda and for a decision on Bill No. 4720. It was considered on a budget committee today, this is a bill to amend the budget in part of the balanced activities of Naftogazu in Ukraine, because the 4707 bill is still going on, and this is a complex change in the activities of Naftogazu. In order not to increase the price of gas, the government is looking for ways to compensate Naftogazu for the price difference. I also ask that we include this bill and vote on its decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u69	Anatoly Gritsenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u70	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I welcome your personal initiative to further fund the defence and industrial complex, but there are two problems. First. The document was filed yesterday, and ours and other committees didn't see it. But it's still a procedural thing, we're used to it. Second thing. It offers 200 million extra for applied research in the area of the defence and industrial complex. Trust the experts, not in applied research now, but in repairs, upgrades, repairs, and purchases of technology. So it's fundamentally important, even if we vote, to make changes, not to this program, to applied research, to scientific institutions, but to enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u71	What's going on here is what I'm saying. It is said that a study of the Kharkiv factory or companies called Morozov’s KGB is provided for a special fund. You understand very well that these costs will never come to development. Therefore, it is proposed that they be transferred to the general fund and, by way of exceeding the income of the National Bank, allocated to build 10 tanks of fence. And after they're built, the company can export its products. So it is a very specific decision that the Supreme Council should make. But you're just, uh, honorary colleagues, identify and ignore names, take your names off. And there will be a talk of the will of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's why you're going to vote. I understand everything. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the bill, registration number 4697 “On the amendment of the Ukraine Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009”. [[on the support of KPC enterprises]] Please vote. [[11:06:59]] For 207 The decision is not taken. Now I'm voting second, please pay attention. This is a draft of the Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2009 (on Regulatory Policy, Public Service and Participation in International Peacekeeping Operations). Registration number 4707. Please vote. [[11:07:36]] For 230 Decision taken. Please, Umanski, Acting Minister of Finance. Láško Oleg Valeriovich will be the narrator. Yes, who will report from the government? Just a minute. Merkowski? Please. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u72	From the committee, from the committee. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Budget Issues considered a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009 submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers for registration number 4707. The bill is balanced with regard to the 2009 State Budget. As a result of the increase in domestic borrowing and the corresponding increase in government debt, it is proposed that the general budget of the State budget be increased by 400.9 million dollars. This bill is designed to address such issues today. First. In order to take immediate action in the event of an emergency and other unforeseen situation, it is proposed to increase the contingency fund by 300 million dollars. The other one. The provision of Ukrainian peacekeeping contingents, including the capital repair of MI-24, MI-8 helicopters from the UN mission in Liberia, is offered an additional 100 million dollars. Third. With a view to preventing debt for utility and energy services by the Board of Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, it is proposed that the financial provision of the measure be further increased by 900,000 dollars. As a result of the review, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of draft law number 4707 as a basis and as a whole as a law. In the event of the adoption of this bill to ensure a balance between the summary figures of the State Budget and the alignment of the bill with the latest edition of the 2009 State Budget Act, taking into account the adopted June 23th Act on amending the 2009 State Budget Act and certain other laws, which has been re-examined with the President's proposals, it is necessary to submit a bill to the Committee on Budget Issues, together with the General Legal Administration, for the text of the Law and Appendices, which has been re-examined with the President's proposals, to submit a law on the signing of the Committee on Budget Issues, together with the General Legal Authority, necessary editorial and technical legal clarifications, first of all, to clarify the summary rates of expenditure of the State budget. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u73	Please sign up, Your Honor, for a discussion. Please sign up. I'm asking you to put the names on the board of the National Deputies. A boy, please, and Chechetov. Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u74	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues, we understand that we need to change the budget, so I think we're changing it every plenary day. And that's from the beginning of December 2008 when the government introduced a budget that is unrealistic and there is no one to review the 2009 budget for political will. And that's why every plenary day we patch holes. Now, a little bit there, a little bit there, a little bit there. I would like to take a closer look at the need for members of the Supreme Council, not insulin, but again, because this may become a tradition for Parliament. If funds are provided for some kind of agency, such as the support of small entrepreneurs in supporting the appropriate committee, these are different things. We need to support entrepreneurs, not government officials. So we need to be careful not to accept any nonsense. And in general, we believe that all the discussions around, for example, budget and social standards are now happening because we don't have accurate information about the economy. The records of the State Department are now classified, and we get them once a quarter. Real GDP and its decline we don't know, real and nominal wages -- we don't know. We're doing all of the math right around here. Therefore, information on the state of the economy needs more and budgetary matters need to be reviewed in principle in order to make budget changes by the end of the year so that the budget is realistic before implementation. And finally. Some make laws, and they're being examined on the same day. Others do, and after six months, no one even picks them up. The parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” points out that 4200 – a moratorium on tax increases – is not introduced, not voted on, is not re- tabled; the external evaluation bill has been in place for three months, and we understand who it is to whom it is convenient; the bill on the national cultural product for two months of legal administration does not reach a conclusion. We call for justice and equality to all deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u75	Mikhailo Chechtov gives the right to speak to Mikola Janovich Azarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u76	Dear People's Deputies, we have just witnessed how much of the room led by the ICTY has voted against social parameters for our people. They did not have the resources to do so, but rather to strengthen the manual management of the budget, to increase the Reserve Fund by $300 million, and immediately there was money. Well, I'd like to ask you a very simple question, and what is the need to increase the contingency fund now? Out of a billion grevens that have been allocated to the Reserve Fund, only about 500 million have been spent, and some 300 million have actually reached the site, i.e. the Government has a large reserve of strength for the Reserve Fund and the one-and-a-half-month period that will not work for the Supreme Council, these funds are sufficient for the Government. Or another exotic norm. In the face of a crisis, the cost of maintaining a million grevens of state-owned equipment is increased. There was time and opportunity for that too. I will not talk about the rest of the redistribution, and it is essential that the country needs it now, and the Ministry of Finance knows it well, and that it needs a comprehensive revision of the 2009 budget, which we have decided with you here, a decision that has entered into force and is in force. Who gave us the right? Did we repeal that law? We've made a rule on whether or not we've changed our decision, I'm asking you. They didn't. They didn't. They didn't. So why do we close our eyes to the fact that the law is being broken and the budget is not being altered? Why? The people’s chosen ones had their eyes dulled.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u77	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u78	Therefore, respectable people's deputies, stop being a vehicle for printing decisions, and finally find responsibility. Second, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I reiterate that the Committee on Budgets must move on to the opposition, where the constructive position of the current Government will be ensured. You cannot print, break the procedure, break the meaning by making such decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. The committee proposes to adopt the project as a basis and generally as a law. I am voting on the committee's proposal: on acceptance as a basis and as a whole as a bill of the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget of Ukraine. Change the vote. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2009. [[on regulatory policy issues relating to the payment of municipal services and participation in international peacekeeping operations]] Based on the base. [[11:17:06]] For 236 The bill was passed on the basis. One minute! Dear colleagues, one minute! Wait a minute! The committee's proposal was to vote on the basis -- the Supreme Council's decision was taken -- and to enact the law as a whole, i.e. to approve it. Is there no objection to such an offer? All of it. What? I can't hear you. As far as Law 4720 is concerned, give it to the Supreme Council and have it distributed. It was only his morning, dear colleagues, that I wrote. Don't rape me, you can't rape me. Once again, the committee has considered everything. They'll sell out, they'll get to know the MPs, and then we'll make decisions. All of it. Dear colleagues, we must now consider the inclusion in the agenda of the Order. I will put to the vote, please, an offer: to have the committee shorten the preparations for the second reading of the draft Law 4707. Please vote. For the next plenary week, he'll be ready. [[11:18:37]] For 206 The decision is not taken. Now, your honors, the inclusion in the agenda of the daily project of the decree on the 20th anniversary of the creation of the People's Movement of Ukraine for reconstruction, registration number 4272. and Please, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u80	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, you did exactly what was right yesterday under the Rules, and you have given the floor that a bill that is not included in the agenda of a given session will no longer be considered in accordance with the Rules. So I have a very legitimate question: why did the draft, which on May 21st received 198 votes, win 203 votes on June 2, go back to the agenda again today? Please wait until September 1st at the opening of the next session. I realize that the Movement has made a start, that it deserves to celebrate this great holiday, but let them keep it quiet, keep it quiet and don't tell the people who caused the huge disaster that we've been in for the past 20 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u81	You should have voted when I asked you to. Dear colleagues, you know, we have a situation here that needs to be balanced. Here's an offer for the Herson machine shop, and it didn't go through, but we put it in. So, respectable colleagues, that's how it is. And here's the deal. So I'm going to put to the vote a return to the inclusion issue. If the Supreme Council doesn't support it, it'll be a signal vote. And let's all calm down, because let's not rape when it's one faction, or another, let's do what's normal. So I'm voting for a return to the draft decree marking the 20th anniversary of the creation of the People's Movement of Ukraine for the reconstruction of the part of the inclusion of this issue in the agenda. Return to consideration of inclusion in the agenda. Registration number 4272. Please vote. Please vote. [[11:21:10]] For 232 We're back. And now I'm voting for inclusion in the agenda. [[11:21:32]] For 231 Decision taken. Let's do it this way, dear fellows. Just a minute. By factions, please: Region Party – 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 148, Our Ukraine-People's Self-Defense – 66, Communists – 0, Litvina Block – 17, non-fractional – 0. Dear colleagues, let's not push the session room any further, I'll just put it to a vote on the decision-making process, that's all. Well, the way I put it on the commsomol. Well, don't yell, please! Well, what are you doing? I am voting on the approval of draft Decree 4272. [[11:22:25]] For 231 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! By factions, please: Region Party - 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 150, Our Ukraine-People's Self-Defense - 64, Communists - 0, Litvina Block - 17, non-fractional - 0. Dear colleagues, we need to consider the inclusion in the agenda of the day-to-day project of the Decision on urgent measures to support coal-based enterprises, to stabilize the socio-economic situation in the coal sector and to ensure Ukraine's energy security. [[Registration numbers 4667, 4567-d, i.e. committee]] I'll put it to a vote. What? Can I bet? They go in alternate, you know, that's one question. The alternate ones are coming. That's why I'm voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily project. Decisions on urgent measures to support coal-based enterprises, to stabilize the socio-economic situation in the coal sector and to ensure Ukraine's energy security. [[Registration numbers 4667, 4667-d]] Please vote. [[11:23:54]] For 358 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Since I am among the authors of one of the draft regulations, let me brief you on what is being said. You know, recently, miners were taking over the Cabinet of Ministers, and then, after a discussion in the session hall, a meeting was held with the committee leaders and the miners. They demanded that the State assume at least partial support for coal mines, which have a form of nonstate, namely private and rented mines. In view of the fact that decisions after the meeting were not taken, the proposals made during the meeting were generalized in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and a draft ruling was proposed in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The proposal is to propose that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine approve the coal purchase schedules for government funds, make appropriate contracts with coal manufacturers of all forms of property. By September 1, 2009, to ensure the development and approval of the coal market mechanism model, to consider the establishment of a deputy minister to take care of this particular part of the coal industry. And also to relieve the stress of providing coal purchases in those mines that are badly needed at this point in order to secure the operation of these mines in the mining area of the Donetsk region. These are the proposals. Now, please, the Committee's first deputy head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy in the Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Titenko Sergey Mihajlovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u82	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I want to say that among the many issues and problems that are now emerging, one of them may not be as bright as gas, but it may be the result of it that we realize that not only gas and coal is the main fuel in our country. I want to give you a few digits. If total electricity consumption in Ukraine decreased by 15 percent, electricity production at thermal power stations decreased by 20 percent and some stations by 28 percent. At the same time, prices for electricity production for these companies decreased by an additional 18 percent. In these conditions of total lack of coal purchases, you have been purchased for at least 5 months this year for nearly 12 million tons of coal. There are now more than 4 million tons of coal in heat stations, 40 percent more than the energy needs by the end of the year. And I want to say, the physical warehouses where this coal is located are filled with virtually all power stations. In order to buy this coal, credit resources were involved with energy, which are now increased by more than 2 billion dollars in 5 months, the workload, the credit pressure on Ukraine’s energy. The profitability of the generating companies, think about it, is now, profitability, minus 20 percent. It's not profitability anymore, it's a new term. And according to some generating companies, negative 25 percent. To cover the cash flow of energy, greenhouses need at least 4 billion dollars by the end of the year. The miners owed more than 1.2 billion dollars for electricity, for production, including 250 million in this year. But I want to say that this is.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u83	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u84	One side of the question. I want to emphasize that miners have problems and issues no less than energy. They work as hard as they can, but with 600 million about a monthly cash gap, they also cannot balance their current activities. I can tell you that energy has, in turn, owed miners about 500 million dollars for coal in storage, another 2 million tons of coal lying on coal mines and coal-rich factories ready for unloading. These questions were discussed by the committee at its meeting and it was concluded that without the use of anti - crisis measures, the urgent problem could become the biggest problem in months. And so it was the decision of the members of the committee, it was suggested that you, honourable colleagues, adopt a draft decision of the Supreme Council aimed at improving or preventing the crisis in this chain -- coal enterprises and energy. This draft regulation provides for a series of options. The preparation of a series of bills provides for timely formation of financial and physical balance.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u85	Sergei Mikhailovich, thank you, time is up. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u86	Vladimir Mikhailovich, three points in the draft of your decision have been reflected in ours. This is about what you said, you wrote the "monthly term" and so on and so forth. Dear colleagues, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion. Sergei Mikhailovich, sit down, thank you. Please sign up for the discussion. Victor Turmanov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u88	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, I think that the Vice-Chairman of the Committee has now reported by order, you know, the situation has been unusual. I ask everyone to support the ruling prepared today for consideration by the Supreme Council on coal issues. I ask for a small amendment immediately, Vladimir Mihajlovich, to amend paragraph 2.4.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u89	Are the regions supported or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u90	I would like to read: “The leader with the requirements of state energy security ensures, within a month, the approval of the physical and financial balance of production and consumption of domestic coal products.” The insert continues: “All forms of property of those who pay taxes”. To this end, there is a decision of the Coal Critical Level Coordination Board signed on 13 November by the Prime Minister of Ukraine. I'd like to take this amendment into account and bring it in, it's essential that we don't have the kind of conflict that we've had, and we've had it with you, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, we've come to the point where we have to resolve them. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u91	Please pass this right of yours over here, please. And Mikola Vasilovich Kravchenko is a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u92	Cowchenko faction commies. Dear colleagues, you know that on 19 May I registered the Posatnov project on hearing the report of the Minister of Fuel and Energy Sold about the situation on the coal market. Regrettably, the Committee did not wish to be informed by the Minister, and it was necessary to take such a decision to date. But if we had heard the Minister, we would have seen how the Mintopenergo is destroying the coal industry today. We would see that today nuclear power plants are charging, and consciously, artificial conditions are being created for coal not to be taken from coal miners and supposed surpluses. They were successfully established today, and the Sold Committee, as it wished, did, and did, refused to allow the sale on this stand. I therefore call for the draft law to be voted in favour of 4667 and I propose to amend paragraph 2 of this regulation. Vladimir Mihajlovich, in any case, we must hear the first issue of sale in compliance with this order. In no case should the committee of the Mintopenergo be held responsible. What does it have to do with the executive branch? We must therefore hear which ministry, the Cabinet of Ministers, will comply with this decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u93	Mikola Vasilovich, you mean here to propose a hearing, right? I mean. Okay. Dear colleagues, those who signed up, Mikhailo Volo Nice, please. You have one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u94	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, you have met miners who have struck and noticed problems in the coal sector in the face of a crisis. You've studied these questions very carefully, and we're grateful to you, and the miners, including your writing the decree and, in addition, our Committee on Fuel, Energy and Nuclear Safety has also pushed us to look more closely and more closely at this situation and at the professional level, is also complemented by the committee's decision. So I propose that we vote for the decisions and proposals made by the speaker and for the proposals made by the committee. In addition, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to point out that perhaps you should not introduce a special position as deputy minister to work with private mines. I believe that perhaps it would be better to redistribute duties, since it was in the ministry that two positions of deputy ministers were cut short. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Because there are no other warnings? Because I realize that there's going to be a vote here right now on top of the political agenda, and I'm taking my draft decision off, if this is a draft decision that's being drafted by the committee, then I want to point out that the people who work in the coal sector are taking personal responsibility for it. Because they were proposing this draft decision, in fact, I fixed it, I made it because they didn't have their hands on it. Now I realize there won't be any support. That's why I'm filming my draft ruling and putting the committee's draft ruling to a vote. Registration number 4667-D for entry as a base. Based on the base. [[11:36:43]] For 367 Decision taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll put your proposals to the vote. Dear colleagues, I'm going to put the motion to a vote, and then I'm going to put it to a vote before the final vote. Calm down! It was proposed in paragraph 2.1, paragraph 2, that where the "funding of the public sector" is to be written, the "coal sector" should be added to the "all forms of ownership". Is that what I'm saying? And I'm going to put this amendment to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] I read it to you: “According to the demands of state energy security to ensure, within a month, the approval of the physical and financial balance of production and the consumption of domestic coal products (and added) of all forms of property”, and beyond the text. This is the offer of the national deputy Turmanov. So I'm putting it to a vote with this proposal to add: all forms of ownership. [[11:38:00]] For 184 The offer is not supported. The proposal continued to be made by Kravchenka Mikola Vasilovich: In September, listen to the Minister of Fuel and Energy’s report on the implementation of this decree. On the move to execute this decree. Mikolo Vasilovich, did I make your proposal correctly? I therefore propose to add the following wording: “In September months, at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, listen to the report of the Minister of Fuel and Energy on the implementation of this decree.” Please. I'm putting the motion to a vote. Please vote. [[11:39:01]] For-65 The decision is not taken. All amendments tabled have been voted on. There are reasons to vote. Please Kravchenko Mikola Vasilovich microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u96	I am, of course, surprised by colleagues from the Party of the Regions who, while not reading, adopted and voted unanimously in favour of the draft decree and charged that the Communists did not vote in favour of the coal miners in the first place. Read what it says. It also says about privatization, it says how you will be coal miners to pay off debts to energy. And today, exactly the opposite is happening. Therefore, respectable colleagues, if you do not read such fateful drafts of decrees from which the Salesman draws. The sale here has completely eroded its interests, the coal industry has collapsed. So, respected regionals, if you want to go back to Donetsk and look normal there, you can call off your votes. Let's vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u97	Please, a replica of Mikhailo Chechtchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u98	Please pass on the word to Tolubu.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u99	Please, Sergey Tulub.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, we must say that the issue raised by Nikolai Vasiljevic has a certain proportion of what is said to be an objective situation. And at the meeting of the fuel and energy complex, we considered all these components. But you have to tell me. When the acting minister cannot answer, the coal industry cannot answer the basic questions when we see such eerie facts, when our coal is placed in storage, and the coal of commercial structures is sold through the State structure of the Minugl and so on, I believe that the coal industry and the ministry must first be dealt with by the Ministry of Coal Industry. And then we'll talk about the Ministry of Fuel and Energy. And the second question. I want to say that today is a reality.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u101	Peter Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u102	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! I would like to ask you, by sharing the concerns of professionals as well as what to do for the coal industry, not to confuse the need to bring criminal responsibility. That's why we have the Attorney General's Office. Let him start a criminal case and check it out. The only thing I'd like to advise you is that in each particular case, please assist the Attorney General's Office. Show and tell the contracts that are concluded, how are tenders conducted, what are the prices for tenders paid? There is no need for law to do that. You don't have to lie to miners, first of all. Nor should people's powers be used to seek and destroy the coal industry. Unfortunately, this is what is happening today. If we are to understand, we need the Attorney-General's Office to give authority and authority to tell Parliament to deal with all these cases, financial flows, copanas, who is covering whom, where this capital is coming from, shadowy and much more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u103	Klimenka, please. Dear colleagues, we're moving into discussion. Here the factions exchanged their thoughts before the final vote and all.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, I have voted in favour of this motion for a ruling. And I'd like to thank her to the authors and especially you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, for getting into the problems that occurred in the mine, in the mining region. That's the first one. Secondly, let's still be objective about this situation. This draft decree, why did he appear to be ahead of this? If it were from the government, there would be an active position from Minvogprom if they could work on this program for months. I think the Supreme Council will approve it. That's the first one. And secondly, today, the professionals on the committees, each one here, the tape that is, corresponds to reality. And that's what's supposed to be here. The first is for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to take part in the privatisation plan if it takes place. First. Secondly, so that we can encourage consumers today, first of all, to get rid of consumption today, over-consuming natural gas and substitution was for the use of our coal, that is, our domestic producer. That's a second. Third, the price. If you say today that we're buying today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u105	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u106	If we today have $300 per tonne of conditional gas fuel in our balance sheet, our domestic coal today costs about $100. The difference is twice, let's count it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u107	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. Since there was a link between Mikola Vasilovich Kravchenk that the pipe was to vote on the draft regulation 4667, I once again want to say that I was deliberately forced to take off because there will be no support because the next draft decision was written under me, not under miners. And I would like to say publicly that miners should address, especially the cities of Shakhtarska, the authors and those who supported this bill, because they will not get anything, to their great regret. And given the amendments that have been voted on, I'm voting on the adoption of the entire draft regulation 4667-D. [[But they won't go, they have something to do.]] . [[11:45:20.]] For 309 I'll take the order. The factions, please. Region Party – 116, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 133, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 43, Communists – 0, “Litvina Block” – 16, non-fractional – 1. Let us now consider the questions in the second reading. A draft Law on the Deprivation of Private Property Lands for Social Needs and Social Needs is being promulgated. [[Registration number 3682]] The rapporteur is the Secretary of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Tkaz Roman Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u108	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! For your consideration, you will see a bill on the alienation of land, other immovable property that is located in private property, for social needs, or for social reasons. In the process of drafting the bill, 308 amendments and proposals were submitted to it by legislators. Of these, 101 are fully accounted for, partially or editorially 118, 79. The overwhelming part of the rejected amendments concerns matters that are not covered by the bill. With regard to the proposals taken into account, with a view to ensuring the right of the alien owners of property, the bill is supplemented by a standard according to which compulsory alienation of land, a socially motivated housing, is carried out solely under the condition that the owner is required to have it owned by appropriately equivalent objects, except in cases where they are otherwise disagreed with by the owner. The criteria of equivalence will be determined by the court. I would also like to point out the principle in the bill that land purchases are different for social purposes from being alienated for reasons of social necessity. The ransom is only possible by voluntary consent, and no authority, even the court, can force the owner to sell the State his property. Forced alienation is allowed only in the absence of an alternative to the placement of appropriate objects of State importance. Dear colleagues, three comments were made before the bill by the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The first concerns the need to switch sections three, fourth and corresponding renumbering of articles with a view to harmonising its structure. The committee supports this proposal. The second observation relates to the expulsion from the bill of amendments to article 537 of the Ukrainian Civil Code. The committee does not object to this observation. The last remark concerns the deletion of a draft amendment to the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Justice. The committee disagrees with this observation, since the changes in question ensure that cases of forced land are dealt with in a timely manner. At the same time, the committee notes that taking these comments into account will not affect the structure of the bill. The committee at its meeting supported the bill and recommended that it be adopted in a second reading and generally as a law that takes into account the comments that have been made. comments by the Chief Legal Authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, let's go to the repairs. Amendment 23, which is not included, Yuri Carmazin. Are you insisting on her, Yuri Anatolyovich? Please, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u110	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'd like to. It's literally just a few seconds. I would like to thank our colleagues who have worked on this bill and made their amendments, such as Karmazin, Palitza, Lukyanczuk, Bebelzenko, and others. In particular, I spoke to Deputy Carmazin separately, he. He's gone, and he basically agrees with all of the committee's proposals, so he takes his proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, considering. There are only some amendments to Carmazin and Sergei Kluev. Are you insisting? 58th Amendment. Oh, no? Pisarenko, 59th. No, no, no, no. Sphinx, 63rd. No, no, no, no. I was a woman, 65th. Who insists on their amendments that are not taken into account? I can't see. There are, therefore, honourable colleagues, grounds for your consideration of the committee's second reading and, as a whole, the bill of the law of the law on the alienation of private property for social purposes and on grounds of social necessity. [[Registration number 3682]] Please vote. [[11:50:43]] For 358 The law is passed. Thank you. Dear colleagues! A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on investment activities is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy Jeresko Igor Hennadyovich. Igor Hennadiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u112	Honorable National Deputies, Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! For your consideration, it is proposed to amend some Ukrainian legislation. As for the project itself, it is worth recalling that the purpose of adopting the bill is to eliminate conflicts in the legislation on investment activities, to create a favourable investment climate, to improve the efficiency and competitiveness of the national economy, to prevent and halt investment offences, to define the concept and content of an investment project, to establish a state registration order and to introduce a state register of investment projects supported by the State. The draft bill took into account international experience, the experience of legislation in other countries. Yes, after examining international experience, the bill has defined not only the concept of “investment project” but also the structure of its chapters, which corresponds to international recommendations and its meaningful efforts, will be interesting for the investor. As a result of the adoption of the draft law, positive factors are expected, such as the removal of inadequacies in investment legislation, such as the lack of a clear definition of the concept of “investment project”, the creation of a favourable investment environment in Ukraine, the promotion of the cessation of delinquency in investment activities, and the promotion of new jobs. During the preparation of the project for second reading, the committee received 11 suggestions, 6 of which were taken into account either fully or editorially, and others were rejected as such, which in any case did not meet the main objective of the project. The Economic Policy Committee recommends that the bill be adopted in second reading and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, there is no warning of this bill? I can't see. The proposal for a second-reading committee is put to the vote and, as a whole, as a bill of draft law, registration number 3065 amending certain Ukrainian legislation on investment activities. Please vote. [[11:53:46]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. I'm voting on the second reading of the bill, registration number 3065. Well, the procedure has to be done. What? [[11:54:09]] For 176 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. What are we going to do? Dear colleagues, we are now in the turn of the draft Law on General Principles for the Development of State-Private Partnership in Ukraine, registration number 3447-d. The rapporteur is the National Deputy of Ukraine, Royal Natala Yuriyovna, head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship. So please, Natalia Yuriovna, come on. I want us to consider this bill before we break.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u114	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished colleagues, we are today considering the Law on the Common Principles for the Development of the Public Private Partnership in Ukraine, Number 3447, prepared by the Committee for Second Reading. I want to remind you in a nutshell of this bill. Unfortunately, the whole world is still struggling with the crisis, so both abroad and in Ukraine today, we are mostly thinking about how to overcome the recession, how to help our industry to stay at a fixed point at least, do everything that goes on to grow. And after the recession is over, the crisis will not end or end, but not for all, and not for how many enterprises can be upgraded, how much we can attract investment today and create, indeed, investment attractive conditions in our country will depend on the recovery of our enterprises. Because today, more than ever, they need additional and effective resources. And now there's a fight in the world for investors' money. And those countries that can attract investors will not be at the backs of the world economy, but will be winners as a result of the crisis. Therefore, the priority of public policy in Ukraine should not only be to mitigate the impact of the crisis, but also to prepare for it in a more severe post-crisis world. And public private partnership is a unique mechanism that has been operating around the world since the 1970s, but unfortunately, we have never used it. We therefore propose today to consider a second-reading bill, to adopt it as a law and, indeed, to allow investors today to move to facilities and in the area of housing and utilities, in the field of transport, in the field of communications. In time, it can also be used in other industries. And we could attract that money for those socially significant projects that are underfunded today from the budget. The State lacked funds for these facilities for the past ten years. And we believe that today we must create all possible conditions for effective management, effective investment, but the State has protected these facilities and left them entirely to its property because it is not possible to sell strategic facilities today because of both the lack of liquidity and the lack of capital in general, ready to pay decent prices. Therefore, we also propose to divide the risks between the State and the private partner, not in a brotherly way, but in an objective manner. A significant part of the risk has been transferred to a private partner. And I very much hope for the support of the Hall and the opportunity to attract serious investment in Ukraine today. The Committee estimates that investments that can be attracted under this law are estimated at about $7 billion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, can we put the committee's proposal to the vote? Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u116	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to this draft Law of the Chief Legal Authority. A general conclusion: The bill requires substantial work and re-reading, taking into account the comments of the General Legal Directorate. In particular, lawyers argue that the adoption of the bill in the second reading of the paper will lead to a body of appropriate rules and legal shortcomings. In addition, the individual provisions of the bill do not correspond to the Constitution and do not comply with other laws of Ukraine. Here on the four pages of the note. I just want to say one thing. The second reading of this bill includes amendments to the Codex earth. So I have a question, how did they get involved when they weren't considered in the first reading? And secondly, I propose all the amendments that apply, this is the second section of chapter 6 of the Final and Transitional Regulations on amendments to the Code of Civil and Civil Codes and the Act of Ukraine of concession to be put to the vote in part of their vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u117	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u118	Put to the vote part of their support. Because I think that changes to the Earth Code should be the work of a professional committee, an agrarian committee, because that's a very sensitive question. And since it was not discussed or considered in the first reading, according to the Legal Authority, this is contrary to article 90 of the Rules of the Supreme Council. That is, I propose to amend chapter six, paragraph 2, of the Final and Transitional Positions of the Project, to make changes to the Codex Earth and Civil Codes subject to their support and not to support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u119	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u120	Position of the Committee. There's something to agree with my colleague. Let us consider, not in theory, the operation of the law, but in practice. When the concessionaire arrives, he signs the concession contract but is given an object but is not entitled to land. And then the concessionaire starts separately to do auctions, contests. At this point, a lot of those who want to live are on the ground. As a result, the concession in principle does not work in the country today, because it does not go with a single package of objects plus land. Therefore, the Committee proposed such a rule that all land leased to enterprises should be fully prepared before the object was put on the concession, and that land would be returned to the State after the break of the concession contract. This is clearly stated here, i.e. the land is not passed on to the concessionary company, but remains to the State, but then the concession contract can work immediately, it is a world practice that the committee has studied and that we can prove in detail. With regard to the observations of the Scientific and Legal Office, we received them last night, this morning we talked with the Legal Office, and in principle they agree that a number of the comments that have been made are sufficiently controversial and there is the right of the Committee, and we are prepared for each comment to give our position and stand for it. And there is no norm that conflicts with the Constitution. You can just read it in different ways how it happens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u121	I'm going to ask Oleg Lazko what kind of amendment we should put to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u122	Vladimir Mikhailovich! I'm too sorry, I don't have a table on my hands right now, and I can't tell you the number of amendments, but I'm reading the conclusion of the Legal Authority that chapter six, chapter six, paragraph two, the Final and Transitional positions of the project are being proposed to make changes to the Earth Code. The proposed changes are not systemic; they are not directly related to those that are necessary for the implementation of the provisions of the law. Changes are made to article 123 of the Codex earth, articles 100, 101 of the Codex earth. So I suggest that these changes to the relevant articles of the Code of Earth to remove them from the text of this law. These changes should be formulated by a separate law, as proposed by the General Legal Authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u123	I understand this is about the amendment on page 50 there, paragraph two of the Ukrainian Code of Land, and it's still being proposed here. Yes, Natalia Yuriovna?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u124	I understand that this is 98 amendments. Oleg, you either tell me the amendment number, or we'll find out where it's going, where it's going. If that's the Ending Position, that's 98 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u125	Please, if you're taking, they're formulating a specific amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u126	Oleg Lazko. Vladimir Mikhailovich, don't reproach me, Roman Mikhailovich Zwari confirmed that he had just entered the Supreme Council site, there is no comparable table. Doesn't she even have a vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, I want to say to the question that we are voting. We vote that you propose to vote on the changes to the State budget that the Supreme Council has not yet received. Therefore, please have a written document distributed to the Ukrainian National Deputies. And once again, dear fellows, don't be lazy in the morning when you register, get your papers! I'm asking you to make an amendment to 98th. What vote are we going to vote on now? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I'm asking you this way, when you make your proposals, let's call the amendment number, you agree that it's counted or disagreed, then we'll continue to consider. Everything else is just going to be our general political debate. There is a remark by the Legal Authority. At the same time, the committee believes that they are of a controversial nature and has decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept them in second reading and in general as a law. I put this proposal to the vote, in the second reading and in general as a law. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please take off the vote. What's the amendment, call it an amendment? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u128	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask you to amend the amendments to articles 100, 101 and 123 of the Ukrainian Code of Land.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u129	What's the number?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u130	I can't tell you what the repair number is, because I don't have a comparison table. She's not on the Supreme Council website.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u131	What do you mean, "no"?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u132	That's why I'm saying that everything about the amendments to the Earth Code will be removed from this law. And put these amendments in support. Is that right or wrong?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, once again I remind you, you are given a table, there are a number of amendments that apply to the Earth Code. The second is now online, the website is hanging a bill, hanging! So compete with each other, and I'm voting on the committee's proposal. I want to say again, give me the repair number.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u134	[[without microphone]] So I gave it to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u135	What? What? Please make a proposal to the committee and I'll put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u136	The Committee proposes that the bill be put in place and adopted as a second reading law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u137	I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and in general as a bill of the draft Law on General Principles for the Development of State-Private Partnerships in Ukraine.” [[Registration number 3447-d]] All right, everybody, get over there, please. [[12:06:46]] For 255 The law is passed. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 40 minutes. After the break, the first question of the appointment and release of judges will be considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, we continue our sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u139	Vladimir Mikhailovich, before the break, was voted in the whole "On the General Principles of State-Private Partnership" Act and now, as always at the last moment, we are looking at what has been voted. And I would like to point out that in the Final and Transitional positions in paragraph 2 of the Earth Code, two articles 100 and 101 have been deleted. I'll call them. This is “The Order of Setting Land Servitus” and “The Operation of Land Servitus”. And interestingly enough, there is no other amendment in the corresponding amendment of 94 of the Royal People's Deputies, and there is no other amendment that initiates the deletion of two articles of the Code of Earth, and there is no comparative table. Thus, there is a gross violation of the Rules. And I'm just asking you to put it to a vote, if there's someone else's proposal, let the person who's proposing speak, and let's vote, let's see if we can rule out these two articles of the Earth Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u140	Yes, Roman Tchac, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u141	Roman Tkaj group “For Ukraine”. Although a little emotional, our colleague Oleg Lazko was absolutely right. Look what happened to your respectable colleagues. The Code of Land contains the entire chapter 16, which is called the “Rules of the Land Cervitus”. There are five articles that clearly regulate what a land waiter is, how a set - up is, and so forth. And it turns out that our colleagues, who have just made this amendment, have deleted the most important articles: “The order of setting up the land serviette” and “The act of the land servitus”. I'll try, and I'll figure out what it's all about. It's probably about where this law is going to apply right now. All the coasts of the Black Sea and so forth, and so on and so forth. That is, now anyone wants to walk quietly in the land. No one else will have the right to do so. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I demand that we return immediately to the review of this bill and put this question to the vote again. Easy was right. And I'm asking you to give him another word.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, to finish, please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u143	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, you asked me five times what the repair number was. I couldn't tell you what the repair number was. And it wasn't just because I didn't have a comparison table. As it turns out, there is no such amendment to the law at all. There is a final edition that proposes to exclude articles 100 and 101. But who is the author of this proposal is not. Where it came from in the final edition, it is not clear. That's why I couldn't tell you the number of the amendment. That's why I asked you to remove from the law any changes to the Earth Code. Unfortunately, you did not put my proposal to the vote. As a result, we have an absurd situation where entire articles of the Codex earth have been removed. By the way, it's not a profile committee that hasn't even considered the issue. What's that approach? Is that a state-owned approach? So we can cancel on an anonymous one.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u144	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I suggest you step out of this colossus in this way. Please and Roman Tkača, Yuri Klukkowski, Olega Láško take the rules, article 48, to make the appropriate reference. The law will not be signed until we consider the matter and accordingly the Supreme Council will not return to the consideration of the matter. And I'd like you, dear colleagues, to calm down, to control your emotions. When preparing for consideration of this bill, hold in your hands, hold in your hands the text, and speak about the specific amendments that apply. Because you're all yelling, and you're all asking everyone to make the decision that you're interested in. And it's not possible to control your 450 passions. Especially considering that meetings are appropriate when either interested in the bill or late in response. It's not about Oleg Lachak, he's there all the time. So I ask you, in accordance with article 48 of the draft, within two days a committee is obliged to consider, then we will make the appropriate decision for the vote of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. No objections? Thank you. This tension has been removed. Please, Mikola Vasilovich Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u145	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Dear voters, respectable colleagues, it is clear that we have this situation, we are mocking the BET tomorrow, the Party of the Regions is coming, coming. As soon as it comes to finalization, they shall immediately vote together. Similarly, they voted to the detriment of the coal miners, to the detriment of the miners, voted on a draft regulation that they were interested in with one – there is a paragraph on the specialities of the privatization of mines. That's all there is to it. They just hit the buttons. Therefore, we need not be surprised that we are quick to pass laws. They're being dragged out, and then they're going to remember what we voted. But most of all, they've already shared.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u146	I, my dear colleagues, suggest that we move on to the subject, but only one sentence I want to say on this point. When the vote on raising the minimum of living was put to the vote, they promised to support this draft decision. We have, in turn, fulfilled our promise. And that's what in Ukrainian politics you know what word it is. The question of the election and release of judges is being considered. The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Justice, Kiwalov Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u147	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished present. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice at its meeting on June 24, this year, considered the appointment of the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the heads of the higher specialized courts on the selection of judges on an indefinite basis and the election of judges previously elected on an indefinite basis. You are well aware of the procedure. The judges are in the guest bed and on the balcony. Draft Decision of the Supreme Council 4711. The committee recommends that judges be selected on an untimely basis: The Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Makarczuk Ludmila Viktorovna; The Kyiv District Court of Simferopol Harchenko Irina Alexandrovna; The central district court of Simferopol Ivanov Sergija Sergiyovich; The Tivrov district court of the Vinnitsk district of Ratushnjak Igor Aleksandrovitch; The Jurijov District Court of the Dnipropetrov region of Kovalczuk Vasil Aleksandrovitch; Grandmother of the District Court of Dnipropetrovska Swiderska Tetjana Anatoliyevna; The Snow White City Court of the Donetsk district of Akulenko Valerija Volodymirovich; The Kyiv District Court of Donetsk Kovalenka Volodymyr Volodymyrovich; The Arbusinian District Court of the Pisotic Region of Mikolaiovich; Lubashiv district court of Odessa district of Gnatuk Valeriyovitch; Shishek District Court of Poltava District of Rybchenk Viktor Vasilovich; The Korean District Court of the Provincial Region of Zagrady Natalija Anatoliyevna; The Cavenius District Court of the Kharkiv Region of Smyrnova Viacheslav Anatoliyovich; Deraznian District Court of the Hmeljna District of Zarečna Inna Volodymyrna; The Netheshin City Court of the Hmelni district of Kulesh Larissa Mikhailnov; The hops of the Regional Court of Hmelnicka District of Vituk Vladimir Janović; Kitzman District Court of Czernovetsk, Litvinjuk Irina Mikolayovna; Delilian District Court of Kyiv Vasilchenka Oleg Vasilovich; The Balaklav District Court of Sevastopol, Kurniak's Tamar Arkadyevna; Donetsk District Administrative Court Maslo Inna Valentinovna; the Economic Court of the Lviv Region of Morozuk Andrija Jaroslavovich and the Economic Court of the Kharkiv Region of Svetlij Jury Valentinović. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, there are no warnings about the committee's proposal? That's why I'm putting to the vote a motion for a committee to adopt a draft Supreme Council decree on the election of judges. Please vote. [[Registration number 4711]] [[12:49:22]] For 278 Decision taken. Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u149	The committee recommends the selection of judges previously elected on an indefinite basis as judges: Dnipropetrov's Administrative Court of Appeal, Božko Ludmila Andriyevna; The Kyiv Administrative Court of Appeal, Melniczuk Volodymyr Petrovich; Kovpakov District Court of Suma Runova Vladimir Yuriovich Regarding Iron Igor Viktorovich's candidacy, I would like to point out that yesterday, June 24, a statement came to the Supreme Council of Ukraine asking the judge to postpone the question of his election as a judge of the Mikolai District Administrative Court in view of the fact that under family circumstances he cannot be present at today's plenary session. So I would like to support the draft Decree 4712, which excludes the name of Iron Igor Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u150	No warning? A motion for approval by the Committee on the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of judges shall be put to the vote, with the exception of the ruling of the judge of Mikolaiiv District Administrative Court of Iron Igor Viktorovich. [[Registration number 4712]] Please vote. [[12:51:03]] For 317 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, allow me to welcome, on your behalf, the judges who have been elected on an untimely basis and to wish them the conscientious service of the matter, their assignment, and their call to health. [[Applause]] Please, Bondik, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u151	Your Honor, Your Honor! Now there's a case where, you know, we're on the committee and actually I'm on the throat of a "personal song," as they say. There is one judge who has many complaints. But when I look at them all on the committee, I would like to wish this person: they're still a young person, and we need to be careful and careful about the right in general, the justice in particular, and the people who go to you. So let this be her lesson, our vote, more than the constitutional majority, but to take into consideration the people who are treating you as the plaintiffs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, we now need to consider draft decrees for the selection of out-of-order local elections. Upstairs Sergei Petrovich. And let's, if there's no objection, I'm just going to read these decisions, the general decision of the committee, and then I'm going to read the rulings, and we're going to vote. Please, Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u153	Your Honor, distinguished national MPs! On June 24, the Committee considered 27 draft decisions on the selection of non-recurrent elections. So I just want to point out that of these 27 decrees of 2 we have considered the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council -- this is the Order on the appointment of the successive elections of the Alexanderian city head and the Slavonic village head. [[Lugansk Region, Artemis District Council]] [[Dnipropetrovsk oblast]] I want to make a note, and I am personally addressing the Party of Regions, which last May 21 did not support these two decrees, with particular attention to the city of Alexandria. There, the head of the court today is sentenced to 8 years. But today the trends that have been set by this head are continuing. In fact, on June 5, the secretary had already been bribed. So I am still asking you to support this decision. All the other decisions are in line with the legislation, all checked by both the board and the committee. And we ask for an election on September 20, 2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, if there's no objection, let's go to specific regulations, only 20 of them. I put to the vote a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of the successive elections of the Soupian village head of the Soupov village council of the Bar region of the wine region. Please vote. [[12:54:37]] For 278 Decision taken. I'm betting on a draft Supreme Council decree on the appointment of successive elections of the ruling head of the country. [[Governmental Rural Council of the Kyiv Region of Poland]] Registration number 4706-1. [[12:55:07]] For 270. Decision taken. It's about assigning out-of-the-way elections to the hope village head. [[Hopely Village Council of the Hersonian Region]] 4706-2 is the registration number. [[12:55:34]] For 249 Decision taken. About the appointment of the election of Pavlenko's village head. [[Pavlovnik Rural Council of the district of Lebedin district of Suma]] Registration number 4706-3. [[12:56:00]] For 275 Decision taken. On the appointment of the successive elections of the Rwandese village head, 4706-4. [[Rudjan village council of the Brovar district of Kyiv region]] [[12:56:25]] For 283 Decision taken. About the appointment of the new Ukrainian head election, registration number 4706-5. [[The New Ukraine Rural Council of the Odessa Region]] [[12:56:50]] For-286 Decision taken. About the appointment of the next election of the Prechristian Rural Head, 4706-6. [[Cross - country Council of the Frunzi district of Odessa]] [[12:57:15.]] For 298 Decision taken. On the appointment of the successive election of Dmitry's head, 4706-7. [[Dmitry Rural Council of the Ochakov District of Mikolaiiv Region]] [[12:57:40]] For 297 Decision taken. About the appointment of the next election of the goddanian village head, 4706-8. [[Bogdanov village council of the Zhaman district of Kirovograd]] [[12:58:04]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. On the appointment of the successive elections of the country’s thirsty head. [[B in m in s a l in]] Then we'll come back if we don't make it. About the appointment of the inseparable election of the country's rural head, registration number 4706-9. [[Žeželova Rural Council of the Kozyatin district of the Winnitsk region]] [[12:58:38]] For 218. The decision is not taken. About the appointment of the incoming head election, registration number 4706-10. [[Visiting Village Council of the Valley District]] [[12:59:07]] For 326 Decision taken. About the appointment of consecutive elections of the Maryan village head, 4706-11. [[Marianov village council of Starobeshev district of Donetsk region]] [[12:59:30]] For 315 Decision taken. About the appointment of the next election of the Vishni village head, 4706-12. [[Vishno Rural Council of the Ruzyn district of Žitomir district]] [[12:59:54]] For 316 Decision taken. About the appointment of the successive elections of the agricultural head of Yaroslav, 4706-13. [[Yaroslava Rural Council of the Chernobyl District]] [[13:00:18]] For 311 Decision taken. About the appointment of consecutive elections for the shrimp head. [[Rakovicka Rural Council of the Radomisl district of Žitomir district]] 4706-14. [[13:00:43]] For 312 Decision taken. About the appointment of the belausian head election, 4706-15. [[Bilousi Village Council of the Chernoukhin District of Poltava Region]] [[13:01:07]] For 321 Decision taken. On the appointment of consecutive elections of the Krajina village head (Krasin village council of the Krivorriz district of Dnipropetrov district) 4706-16. [[13:01:30.]] For 213 The decision is not taken. About the appointment of the successive election of the Nagorian village head. [[Nagorian Village Council of the Ternopil region]] 4706-17. What warning is there if there is a draft decision that might be a warning? [[13:01:59]] For-187 The decision is not taken. It's about the selection of the novotroitian village head. [[Novotroitsk Village Council of the Donetsk Region]] 4706-18. [[13:02:25]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. About the appointment of consecutive elections of the Salkovi village head. [[Salkova Village Council of the Kyvoron district of Kirovograd]] Registration 4706-19. [[13:02:52]] For 230 Decision taken. Appointing successive elections for the Panutin village head (Panutinian Village Council of the city of Lozow, Kharkiv Region) 4706-20. [[13:03:18]] For 303 Decision taken. About the appointment of the off-duty election of the Onufri village head. [[Onufriyev village council of Onufriyev district of Kirovograd district]] 4706-21. [[13:03:43]] For 311 Decision taken. About the appointment of the successive elections of the Slavonic village head. [[Slavorjet Village Council of the Sininelnik district of Dnipropetrovsk Region]] 4706-22. [[13:04:08]] For 239. Decision taken. On the appointment of the successive elections of the city’s Alexanderic head. [[Alexandrov City Council of Artemis District Council of Lugansk Lugansk Region]] 4706-23. [[13:04:34]] For-198 The decision is not taken. About the appointment of the successive election of the city's city head. [[Petrov City Council of the Krasnolutsk City Council of Lugansk Region]] 4706-24. [[13:05:01]] For 212 The decision is not taken. About the appointment of the consecutive election of the Welsh city head. [[Valkovo City Council of the Kharkiv Region]] 4706-25. [[13:05:28]] For 314 Decision taken. On the appointment of the successive election of the deputies of the Maritime Council and the head of the sea. [[Maritime Council of the Sudanese City Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea]] 4706-26. [[13:05:58]] For 332 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! Seven draft decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the election of the Supreme Council of Ukraine were not supported. The point is that these elections are all on a single date. If we do not finally make a decision, you realize that they will be less able to prepare for the elections. So with your one minute, I'd like to put a vote on the return to the relevant rulings to see if there's a final decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Therefore, a great request, your honorary colleagues, to do so, will be put to the vote on the return to the draft regulations that have not been supported by the Supreme Council, and then on a personal basis, on each individual draft order, if there are observations, then we should say why we do not vote. Is there no objection? I am voting for the return to the draft election decrees: 4706-8, 4706-9, 4706-16, 4706-17, 4706-18, 4706-23, 4706-24. Please vote. [[13:07:43]] For 218. The decision is not taken. So, honourable colleagues, let's do it this way, maybe here, honourable colleagues, maybe a group, I got your opinion, maybe, well, I'll tell you now, if you don't mind, let's move on. Now, let's put each individual decision to a vote, that's all. Well, we didn't come back together, maybe. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please sign up for 5 minutes. Please put the names on the board of national deputies. Vladimir Romanovich Moisik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u155	Vladimir Moisik, “For Ukraine” MP. Please give the floor to Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u156	Yuri Klukkowski, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u157	Thank you. Dear colleagues, these rulings that are now being voted on are not things that can be played in politics. It's about exercising the right of citizens to choose local self-government. All the cases involved are carefully studied not only by the professional committee but also by the proper administration of the Supreme Council’s apparatus. In each case, it is considered whether there is a legal basis for the selection of out - of - turn elections. Believe me, no doubt the committee is missing a vote in the room. Thus, in such cases, where there is reason and the Supreme Council does not vote, this means a violation of the rights of citizens by inaction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u158	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u159	Oleg Zarubinsky “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I'd like to point out that it's clear that all the deputies who are currently in the room can't get into each of these options in each of the draft regulations. We have almost three dozen committees. And if the committee at its meetings had considered these proposals and recommended that the Supreme Council should be accepted -- that's the first thing I wanted to say -- obviously we should treat our colleagues with some confidence and respect. They were dealing with it. And second moment. I don't think it's entirely right when we don't give a community a chance, because some village and village have their own factor, have their own head. I mean, we create problems for ourselves, we create problems for people who don't have a head. What is the result? What political interests are being realized? We don't get it. We propose to vote that the elections take place in one day in all those villages and villages.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u160	Lukyanczuk, faction of the "Julia Timoshenko"
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u161	Thank you. May I have the floor to Sobolje's Sergey Vladislavovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u162	Sergey Sobolev. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u163	Sobolev, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko", Party "Reforms and Orders". Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! It seems to me that we are now setting a very dangerous precedent, which is related to the Constitutional Court’s decision, which stated that the next election is actually an election for a term of office, which is determined what it is about the council or the mayor of the city. Now, if we don't vote in favour of such decisions, we still have tens of thousands of votes to be voted on at each appointment for five years on local councils and city measures. So I'm asking you not to set such a bad precedent right now. Because then we're going to break the election in virtually all the communities of Ukraine. I'd like to go back to that question. Whatever interests they may have, whether they have put their secretaries there or other interests, one principle needs to be applied to all the local communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u164	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u165	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! You remember, especially the third, fourth vocation, the very often unnecessary storms in the session hall, the unhealthy whirring occurs when you try to push us, to stretch something, to force you to vote on something. You don't have to do that. I respect and we all respect the opinion of the profile committee. Please respect our point of view. Please respect our right as Ukraine’s national deputies to make decisions. One is when it comes to a vacant place, when there is no functioning head of the village council, and the other is when the out - of - turn elections of the village head are scheduled for the living and working head of the village. So I strongly beg you, this is not the case where we need to twist our hands. In 2010, everyone will go to the normal election of the heads of the village councils. And let's close that question. We decided not to run in order, break our legs, and laugh all over Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u166	National Deputy Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u167	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”, a parliamentary group “For Ukraine”. Of course, the Committee on State Administration and Local Self - Administration is studying in detail all these regulations, draft regulations that apply to the session hall. And MPs, however they may speak without being able to get to know all the positions that are being considered on the committee. And so there's really a problem with that in rural councils, the heads of rural councils are often chosen by people who are unprepared, not qualified, who work not for the community, but for their own interests. And that's why there's a right in the community to choose your leader, there's a right to propose a replacement, and we have to use that right. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u168	Dear colleagues! We were talking about this, so I would like to ask the committee to reconsider these draft regulations, which have not been supported, and add further clarifications to each of them, because since there is a policy here, you understand very well that we will be putting ten times and there will be no result. This is the question that we have concluded. Huh? Top-of-the-line microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u169	Dear National Deputies! I just want to say one thing. The deputy before that spoke and said that the head was or was not present. So, of the seven decrees that we didn't vote on, in four cases the head himself wrote a statement and made a mandate, in four cases.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u170	Thank you! Please, Mikhaylo Chechtov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u171	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, I think it is better than the living classic Jaroslav Mihajlovich Suhay said, and yesterday the second classic said, "This is the leader of the majority, Yulia Vladimirovna, she says, "One minister has left, the second has left, the third has left, the fourth has left, and the work has become even better." Therefore, whether there is a head or not, if there is strong counsel, powerful executive power, intercessors, there will be order. And we will hold the elections at the same time, said Jaroslav Suhay correctly, and in 2010 and in the line we will align everyone. Therefore, “you must not drive a wave ”! Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u172	Dear colleagues! The thought was exchanged, and we have good reason to move on. A draft decree on the restoration of the village of John Frank Dorobitsky of the Lviv area of former appointment, deputy head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government of Yuri Bogdanovic Klukkowski, is under review. Please, Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u173	Thank you, Mr. Head, dear colleagues. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government asks you to support the Draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the restoration of the village of John Frank Dorobitsky of the Lviv area of former appointment. This is about the return of the name Nagujevichi. I would immediately like to say that this is not in any way related to any disrespect for the memory of the outstanding Ukrainian writer and statesman John Frank. There is not only Ivan Frank's museum in the village of Nagujovich, but also the Nagujovichi Reserve, which includes: a parental garden; a literary and memorial museum; a literary building; a sculpture and construction unit called Ivan Franco and world literature; and an artistic memorial complex called John Frank's Roads. The question is different. The point is that the name assigned to honor John Frank’s memory of the village proved to be very awkward. The official name is the village of Ivan Frank. How to make adjectives from that name, no one knows. In fact, that name did not come to the fore. As early as 1991, the village referendum decided to take care of the return of the historical name and eventually the whole world knows that John Franco was born in the village of Naguyevich. This question has been wandering for a long time, in fact, in the corridors of power of different levels from area to area and for several years here in the Supreme Council. After that, the village continues to insist that this name be changed. After a lengthy discussion, taking into account that John Frank's memory is included in the name of the city of Ivano-Frankow and the village of Ivano-Frankov in the region of Lviv. Considering that in no way do we demean the memory and respect of John Frank, the committee asks the Supreme Council to support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u174	No objections? Yes. Please, Adam Martinyuk. Then Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u175	Thank you, Martinyuk, the Communist faction. I thought that today, after the vote of the 20th anniversary of the People's Movement, you'd be closer to moving than fighting Frank. That's what we have to think of, national-conscious patriots, we have to figure out what the name is already Ivano-Frankivsky, so let's take the village of Nagujevichi, the name. So I do not rule out that tomorrow the community of Ivano-Frankivsky will gather and say: “Why don’t we, Ivano-Frankivsky, give us the city of Stanislav. At last you have a conscience or no conscience. What did John Franco do to you, feed you on what he wrote "Eternal Revolutionary"? That's probably it. Soon you will be able to get your way, and you will crush his monuments, which are on Lyczakówka and so on. What prevents John Franco from doing for national patriots? Let the one who votes think about what is bothering him, John Franco, and what he has blamed you for.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u176	Vladimir Yavorowski. Now Kenzier, and then you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u177	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. First of all, I'd like to ask the previous speaker to calm down a little bit and not teach us patriotism. Let's put aside ambitions -- patriots, not patriots, let's take a quiet look at the situation. Imagine we're going to take and say the same Karelivka, as they call it in Cherkashina, we're going to call the village of Taras Shevchenka. Well, that's not wise, and the world knows Franco was born in Nagavievich. Frank’s entire history is tied to Nagavievich. That's what people are called. I'm an Easterner. I'm not from Western Ukraine. I've been there a lot. The people themselves came, by the way, they all called the village of Nagujevichi. Adam Ivanovich, who here, what do you suspect, what's not patriotism here, that's contempt for John Frank? The normal name, “the village of Nagujevich”, is a historical name and may it be. And John Frank's works are being published, his monuments are standing, his university is bearing his name, the district center is bearing his name. I don't see any more here, it's just a feeling that some people are blinded by this. Let's vote for that. It's a perfectly normal decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u178	Jaroslav Kenzier, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u179	Jaroslav Kenzior, MP “For Ukraine!” I, the word of honor, Adam Ivanovich, did not expect such a clear objection from you. I'm sure you've been to Nagavievich on more than one occasion. If you have hit the nearest one in recent years, all the tables on your way in, visiting the village on maps of Western Ukraine, look at the village of Nagujevichi. And most importantly, please imagine for a moment that Ivan Jakovitch Franco himself would support this idea of calling the village, the village where he was born, his family born, called his name? Nagowiewich really knows the whole world because John Jakovich Franco was born there. This in no way demeans the very character of John James Frank. So let's use common sense. But go to the village and ask the community, therefore, the community asks and asks the Supreme Council for such a request. Let's support this request and the will of the community of the village of Nagujevichi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u180	They've already come out of factions. Why? Who was there? There was a reporter. I'm asking you, they're speaking to one person from the faction: Adam Martinyuk took the floor, spoke from BUTU and spoke from "Our Ukraine – the People's Self-Defense". Please, Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u181	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Well, let's not do double standards. After all, now that each penny is gold, it needs to be given a pension, a salary, grants, social assistance to persons with disabilities, war veterans and wargoers. We're doing, well, if we don't say stupid, or stupid, we're building monuments, and we're burying money in the memorials. People are laughing at us. Then we rename the streets, yeah. So we're shooting the monuments. Well, let's just think about the people a little bit, yeah. Let's get out of the crisis, then when we do something, we'll smell the back of the road, we'll start renaming the streets, and here, look at who they're swinging at, what their last name is, Ivan Franco! Why don't you name Shevchenka? Do you have a conscience?Oh, my God! Who do you think you're after? Which country are you working for?Oh, my God! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u182	Short-term procedure. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, a line. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u183	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Adam Ivanovich addressed me personally, and I exercise the right to answer him personally. You know, I'll make two quotes from John Frank. “ It’s not time, it’s not time for Moscow to serve! Ukraine ended with a terrible injustice. It's time for Ukraine to live!" – it's poetry. And now from the scientific works, what progress is. “The National State of Lords Lassalle and Engels will become the highest national prison. 1903 is John Franco. For this, Adam Ivanovich, we will always honor Frank despite your false love. [[(U in m in s a l in]] )
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, please. I ask you all to calm down and put to the vote a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the restoration of the village of John Frank Dorobiotic of the Lviv area of former appointment. [[Registration number 4643]] Please vote. [[13:25:54]] For 234 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! We have to go now. The factions? Please. Region Party – 2, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 149, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 65, Communists – 0, “Litvina Block” – 17, non-fractional – 1. Dear colleagues, now the next day, may I have your attention? Two draft decrees amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision “On the election of heads, first deputies, deputy heads, secretaries, members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth vocation and election of the head, first deputy, deputy heads, secretary and members of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council on matters of privatization”. Registration number 2743 and 4016. It's about the election of Master Sergei Volodymyrovich, who, you know, doesn't work on any committee, to the Justice Committee. And second order, 4016: “On the election of Prutnik Eduardo Anatoliyovich as a member of the Committee on National Security and Defence, by accordingly releasing him from the duties of a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on freedom of speech and information”. We have repeatedly asked these questions. The Supreme Council did not support it. So let's put it this way: I'm going to put it to a vote, and the Supreme Council is going to decide on the first and second cases. [[What are you talking about?]] No warning? That's why I'm putting to the vote a draft decree on the election of Vlastenek Sergey Volodymyrovich, Ukrainian national deputy, member of the Justice Committee. Registration number 2743. The decision, you know, of the Regulatory Committee: he won't deny it, but I'm putting it to a vote according to the Rules. [[13:28:20]] For 224 The decision is not taken. I now put to the vote the draft Order on the election of Prutnik Eduardo Anatoliyovich as a member of the Committee on National Security and Defence and accordingly exempt him from the duties of a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on freedom of speech and information. [[13:29:01]] For-200 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, please, please calm down. You can't put it in a packet because there's a definite objection. It's being announced. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you to calm down. A draft Law on Wholesale Markets in Agriculture, 2137, has been announced for consideration. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm all I've got, dear colleagues, don't blame me, I'll put it to the vote. Everyone, please calm down. Well, I'll put it to a vote. I bet you did. [[B in m in s a l in]] Mobilize, please. A draft Law on Wholesale Markets in Agriculture, 2137, has been announced for consideration. [[B in m in s a l in]] What didn't you put in? What? Just a minute. What are the charges against me? [[B in m in s a l in]] . I'm asking you, Your Honor, let's do this, I'm the Head of the Supreme Council and I'm not hired to serve one or the other faction. You don't like it? 150 signatures and all. I voted 20 times. And don't rape me, please. A draft Law on Wholesale Markets in Agriculture, 2137, has been announced for consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u185	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, your esteemed colleagues, is being re-reading a draft Ukrainian law on wholesale markets in agricultural products, registration number 2137. Almost a year ago, on September 18, 8, the bill was adopted in the first reading, and on May 21, this year, the bill was sent for re-reading. First of all, I would like to thank the people's deputies who have worked to improve the bill. The second reading was followed by 43 suggestions and amendments. All proposals made by the national deputies have been considered. 41 offers are included, and two proposals are included in part. The proposals made by the Ukrainian people’s deputies have greatly improved the bill. The proposals taken into account by the Ukrainian people’s deputies provided an opportunity to clarify the bill’s provisions with a view to improving it. An additional 8 suggestions were made before the second reading, of which only two were rejected, and the rest were taken into account. Again at the meetings of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, it was considered and recommended that a second reading and a law as a whole should be adopted. The introduction of agricultural wholesale markets in Ukraine is important not only for agricultural producers but also for consumers. The adoption of the bill will enable us to take the first step towards a systematic solution to the problem of agrarian infrastructure, including the creation of wholesale markets for agricultural products as one of its most important elements, segments where we have or are facing the biggest problems — the market for meat, fresh vegetables, fruit, and fish. So, for example, if you look at the meat market in the chain, the producer-consumer chain, according to statistics, the average purchase price for high-voltage beef is 11 dollars, and the retail price is 37 dollars. So you can see it in this example.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u186	Yes, Your Honor, I'd like to propose once again to those charges. I'm sorry about that. I put it again on the vote, and I reject the charges and do not accept them. If you are not set up by the working Supreme Council of Ukraine, say so, for each party demands that only its decisions be voted on. I put it to a vote, you asked, I put it to a meeting of the Conciliation Board this question was not discussed, I put it all wrong. What else do you want? Worked for the Supreme Council or service any demands, any interest. One side shouts only their vote, the other side suggests another. Give me a chance to work! I want to say again, make a deal with each other, because if you have to make those decisions that are going to solve other questions, you agree and you vote for 300 votes. Deal with it, and don't rape me. Dear colleagues! Suggestions are practically all taken into account. The committee proposes to accept it as a law in the second reading as a whole. What are some warnings? You don't? I am voting on adoption in the second reading and in general as a bill of the draft Law on the Wholesale Markets of Agricultural Products 2137. Please vote. [[13:34:59]] For 309 The law is passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u187	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u188	It is announced before the review of the Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Regional Development Promotion. [[on Monitoring]] The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy Jeresko Igor Hennadyovich. Igor Hennadijovich, let's make some adjustments right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u189	The Committee has considered this issue and recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it on second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u190	Just a minute. As for the amendments that have been rejected, which of the national deputies insists on these amendments? No other comments? I therefore put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and in general, as a bill of the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Promoting Regional Development, please vote. [[on Monitoring]] [[Registration number 3567]] [[13:36:16]] For 328 Decision taken. I mean, the law's approved. The draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine is under consideration. [[concerning the keeping of the mystery of confession]] [[Registration number 1308]] The rapporteur is Moisik Volodymyr Romanovich, head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u191	Vladimir Moisik, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, the legislative initiative supported in the first reading touches on the amendment to article 69 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, which establishes a circle or list of persons who are not subject to interrogation as witnesses in criminal proceedings. The author of the legislative initiative, Vladimir Marouschenko, suggests that this article should be selected and that paragraph 6 should be stated that they are not being questioned as witnesses of the clergy for the information that became known to them during the human confession. The committee considered four proposals for the bill, two of which were supported, one editorially, one rejected and proposed to be approved in the second reading and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u192	Respectful colleagues who insist on their amendments are not included in the two amendments. Nobody insists? Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u193	Thank you very much. I might rather have the question than the amendment itself, the point is that in the 6th paragraph of the new paragraph, the term “sacred ministers” is used, the fourth amendment of the national MP Seminoga attempted to decipher who should be considered priests. Sadly, this amendment is rejected. In this regard, I would like to ask what legislation has been established, who should be treated as priests.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u194	Dear Yuri Bogdanovich! This term “priests” already exists in the actual edition of article 69, which it means, but I am afraid even for such matters and to get married, it will confuse the other way around. The amendment of the Seminoga proposes to the clergy of the religious organizations of Ukraine, whose statutes and positions are registered in the established legal order and on the basis of information that has become known.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u195	Please, Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u196	I reported the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u197	Dear Volodymyr Romanovich! Please tell me if this does not mean that anyone will declare himself a minister, such as “the messenger of the Lord God on earth” and will be relieved of the obligation to give evidence as a witness.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u198	Catherine Semenovna, this has not yet been done in court or investigation. The “Messenger of God” is only as Adam Ivanovich says. There's the author of the legislative initiative and he'll give an explanation as well, but the committee thinks that the term that was in force is deleted from paragraph one and is written down by one paragraph six and all, and nothing more.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u199	Yes, what other questions are there? Bevs, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u200	Dear Vladimir Romanovich! Well, in principle they say that the law is a mandatory rule of conduct for any member of society. And here we are, under the law, taking out a whole category of people who won't obey that law: lawyers, notaries, psychologists, ministers, health workers. Can you please tell me how to fight crime?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u201	Dear Valery Ananiyovich! I repeat to my colleagues that this rule has been in force since 1961 and in the new Codex 2001 it exists. More to the point, the judiciary, which disagreed with us, went even further. He is not interrogated by the deputies of the Supreme Council; he is not questioned by the Commissioner for Human Rights and so forth. We didn't consider these amendments because they are actually a legislative initiative. I mean, it was the clergy in paragraph 1 of the general list of people who are not under interrogation. The author suggests that they be excluded from the sacrament of confession and that the priest be sure of it, and the person to be sure that no one will know it. Otherwise, the meaning of this sacred act is lost.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u202	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to pay attention to the amendment. It says that they cannot give a witness to the clergy about the information they became known during confession. During confession, and all else, they are obliged to give. Dear colleagues, the matter is that they may question them or give a binding witness on all matters. This is already a rule of application for this document. What a man said in confession, he may not speak. Basically, let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u203	Yuri Romanovich backs me, Miroshnichenko. Yeah? That is, it is a guarantee for man and for a priest that only they communicate with God by means of a priest. And no one knows, and it will never be known.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u204	Dear colleagues, I am voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code to keep the mystery of confession. Registration number 3008 to accept it in second reading and generally as a law. Please vote. [[13:42:59]] For-187 The decision is not taken. Then there's another offer. To be rereaded to clarify the wording, namely, who is the minister. Please vote. Well, in order to determine, anyone can call himself a minister. [[13:43:26]] For-200 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Please, Vladimir Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u205	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Every time I report the changes to the Criminal Procedure Code, I ask you to do so. The subject of criminal procedure legislation is referred to two committees. Adam Ivanovich was then denied. And the Criminal Procedural Code, which was ready for second reading, was introduced in a previous vocation under the signatures of five factions, as in the first reading. So let's either create a temporary special committee or put it on the same committee. Because there's a dead load of code. He, I already have half a ton of this code of options and changes. There were 9,000 right-handers. So we're going to stick and patch this old code to the limitless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u206	Thank you. I ask Alexander Lavrinovich, together with the committee leaders, to determine how we will continue to move on this issue. A draft Law on Science Parks is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 0956]] The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Science and Education, Polohalo Vladimir Ivanovich. And I'm continuing our morning session in 14 hours for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u207	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I'm asking for your attention. Because the scientific parks bill has already been reviewed twice by the Supreme Council in its second reading. On January 15, 2009, with the comments of the General Legal Directorate, he was sent to read again, and on April 14, 2009, without any notice, he was sent back to read again. When this law is being drafted, the bill that is now being passed to you compared to the previous bill is being taken into account, under an agreement with Minfin, only one proposal. That's what Minfin requires. The deadline for the entry into force of the law has been changed, and it is proposed to be put into effect as of January 1, 2010. The bill is set up in the legal office without any notice. No notice. In general, 80 proposals were made to the bill. Of these, only four suggestions have been rejected. This is Mr. Yuri Karmazin's offer. In view of the improvement in the structure of the bill by excluding some secondary provisions. So it's purely about editing. In the developed version, there is a substantial increase in the position of control and responsibility of scientific parks for the implementation of projects supported by the state. Well, I would also like to say that on June 17th, our parliamentary hearings took place in Kharkiv and Dnipropetrovsk. Almost every other speaker asked for this law as a basis. The only thing that was said to be taken into account, and I suggest it, is the article. Amendment. It says that in article 19, paragraph 1, on the subject of taxation, delete the words: “either they are produced or do not meet the requirements of the scientific park project” because such formulation does not have a legal definition and the substance remains. [[only delete words and correction remains]] Therefore, I propose to delete these words and to put this paragraph in the following wording: “In the case of a scientific park project that has undergone a state registration under Part Two of Article 15 of this Law, the scientific, laboratory and research equipment, as well as the compilation and materials that are not produced in Ukraine according to the nomenclature and the scope of the scientific park project, shall be exempt.” [[It's Catherine's idea of Samuel's Seed, the essence of it remains.]] Dear colleagues, the scientific community, the vases are waiting for this bill. This requires nearly 90 percent of those with whom you will work today. I don't see any problem with why our country remains a dune that has no preference for innovation. Everybody vote in favour of this bill as a whole, second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u208	Katerina Samuelk, microphone. Please, what's your correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u209	My amendment, which Vladimir Ivanovich has already said about. I want to address everyone, especially the faction of the Party of Regions. I don't understand your position at all. The ideologist for the bill was Yuri Vasilovich Karakai. And I thank God that we have adopted the Ukrainian Law on Science Park “Kyivska Politechnika”, or we would never have adopted this law in our lives. I don't understand why you don't vote. You're talking about the innovative development of our economy, our society. What are you doing here? I propose that we all vote in favour of this bill, this is a basic bill for all the science parks that will be created in our country. And I suggest you all get on the buses and go see the work of the Kyiv Science Park, and you'll be sure to work there.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u210	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u211	And if we were to adopt this law definitively, maybe a lot of the negative processes that we have in both the economy and science, we would still be able to overcome.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u212	Thank you, thank you. Dear colleagues, what are some other warnings? None. There are no suggestions. Therefore, the proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and in general as a bill of the Law on Scientific Parks is put to the vote. [[Registration number 0956]] Please vote, please vote. [[13:49:38]] For 239. The law is passed. Thank you. [[Applause]] A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Mining Act is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the deputy head of the PEC Committee on Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Volinc Mikhailo Yakovic. Please, Michael Jacobovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u213	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. What I'm saying is that I'm also a co-author of this bill, and also from every faction, people were involved in the drafting of this bill. So what I'm saying is that our society today understands that it's better to develop a domestic coal industry than to finance a manufacturer from abroad and burn to produce electricity, heat and other Russian gas, oil, which is now increasing in price. But what I want to say is that it's not the machines that are doing it on their own today, and people are doing it, and the mining work in Ukraine is extremely difficult. We developed a draft law last year and adopted a view of promoting the prestige of mining work, and some of the positions were not regulated by that law. And today we are trying to take these issues into account as much as possible, and the Act on Enhancing the Prosperity of Mining Work should be dealt with with with by other legislative acts that exist in the country today. For example, a whole category of workers has fallen out -- they're soldiers of the militarized mining service -- 5,000 people who are hired by people who have a job under the ground for at least 7 years, high-quality workers, and then they go to work as miners. And, first of all, this year's budget cuts for this service, and besides, they didn't benefit from those benefits, especially pension benefits: they didn't have a pension. And that's how we settle these issues. The bill also foresees a reduction in taxes on wages and other payments for miners who work only underground. The bill deals with all categories of workers working underground. It's not just coal, it's iron ore, it's marganese, it's colored metals, it's like that. There are also benefits for those miners who have worked for a long time on active mines, but these mines are closing, and legislation is not being implemented today. The bill also provides for housing allocations for miners who work underground and for their families. And it's like that. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u214	Dear colleagues. Please, Adam Martinyuk. What is the correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u215	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. I think the honourable colleagues, especially those of you who have been in mining areas lately, feel the need, indeed, to amend the law, the law that we passed a year ago with you. However, since they were admitted on a timely basis, many legal gaps were allowed. And it's a good thing we're catching up on what we missed. And I'd like to pay particular attention and ask: let's support all these amendments without discussion right now, because that's where we're talking about, including a category of people, like pensioners, who, unfortunately, we didn't count the pensioners, so that instead of coal, if they live in buildings where they don't burn coal, they'd make up for it. And it's a good thing that this bill takes that into account. So I'm asking all my colleagues, as we voted in favour of the basic law a year ago, let's vote for the amendments to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u216	Vladimir Landik. What is the correction? Let's make amends, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u217	Thank you. Landik, Party of Regions. There was my amendment to the coal supply of widows, not only of the dead miners, but also of the dead. We know that if the widow and the husband-chatter died, we understand that he died from what was difficult, hard work with man. And divide them into those who died and those who died and through. On one street, through the fence, one is given coal, the other is not given. But as far as I can remember, Turmanov said it was counted, I'd like to hear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u218	Yes, I'd like to confirm, Your Honor, that your amendment has been taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u219	Dear colleagues, the committee suggests that the second reading and, in general, as a law, the draft Law, registration number 3199 on the promotion of the prestige of mining work. I'll put this motion to a vote, please. [[13:55.]] For 380 The law is passed. Thank you. A draft Law amending some of Ukraine’s laws on the order of social protection of the population, which resides in areas of monitoring of uranium mining, nuclear facilities, and radioactive waste management, is under consideration. The rapporteur is a member of the Committee on Fuel and Energy in Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Mr. Tolub Sergey Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u220	Dear colleagues, I am most grateful to all those national deputies who have taken an active part in the drafting of this law. Our committee has reviewed and analyzed all the warnings to this draft law and, above all, the warnings given by the General Legal Authority. It has to be said that they related to the introduction of the Assembly into the State Budget special fund of funds to finance socio-economic compensation for the risk of the population living in nuclear surveillance zones. There was also an expert evaluation and a re-examination at the committee meeting, and the decision is clearly made that there is an acute need for the law, and it is due to strategic factors. First, it is necessary, in accordance with the requirements of article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security, to ensure that the population is entitled to socio-economic risk compensation. Secondly, there is a need to specify the institutional and legal basis and sources of funding for socio-economic compensation for the risk of the population. And thirdly, it is very important to give local governments the legislative mechanisms for the participation of the territorial communities in the processes, first of all, governance, distribution and control over the targeted use of socio-economic compensation for the risk of the population. To this end, systematic and consistent changes have been prepared to fundamental nuclear energy laws in Ukraine, in particular on the use of nuclear energy and radiation security, on electricity and, consequently, on Ukraine's Tax System Act. We agreed with the legal professionals that the tax issue in the bill has an important, but I want to point out that it's a non-definable one. The committee's decision was based on the fact that the proposed mechanism for legal regulation of financial and economic relations in the draft law did not conflict with the established legislative practice of the Supreme Council. Prepared by the committee for the second reading of the draft law, in our view, removes existing legislative gaps. [[Registration number 2174]] The implementation of the proposed legislation does not interfere with the state budget’s income and expenditure system, nor will it cause additional pressure on the State budget. In view of the above, the committee proposes a draft law to be adopted in the second reading and generally as a law. Please have your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u221	Dear colleagues, which of the deputies insists on amendments that have not been supported by the committee? There aren't any? I put to the vote, when there is no objection, to the committee's proposal to adopt a second reading and generally as a bill to amend some of the laws of Ukraine on the organization of social protection issues in the surveillance zones of uranium mining enterprises, nuclear facilities and facilities designed to deal with radioactive waste. Registration number 2174. Please vote. [[13:59:01]] For 367 The law is passed. Announcing the draft Law. I continued the meeting for 15 minutes. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Order of Decisions on the Location, Design, Construction of Nuclear Installations and Objects for the Management of Radioactive Wastes of National Significance is being announced for consideration. [[on improving decision-making]] The reporter is Tulub Sergey Borisovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u222	Dear colleagues! First of all, I am very grateful to you for the previous bill that you have adopted it. And I'd like to say this bill. 3562 is also completed, contributed to second reading. In his preparations for today’s session, we reviewed all the suggestions, including those that came to the above - mentioned date for the committee. Complementary rules do not violate the basic law’s order for decisions on the placement, design and construction of nuclear installations. Or other appropriate objects and the involvement of the territorial communities and local authorities in the resolution of these issues. At the same time, the bill provides for the clarification of specific legislative terms, provisions that are important for the decision-making process. In the final edition, the bill is supported by both the Ministry of Education and the Committee, and specifically by all the elements that are listed there. This focuses on the analysis of warnings regarding the possible narrowing of the rights of citizens, local communities, executive authorities, and local authorities. According to industry experts and experts, the final edition of article 3 of the draft Law generally corresponds to the position of the Chief Legal Authority and ensures compliance with the requirements of articles 11 and 20 of the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security. [[Registration number 3562]] Consider the decisions of local executives and local self - government authorities when agreeing on the placement of nuclear facilities and the thinking of the respective local community. It does not violate the constitutional rights of citizens, it specifies, as has been pointed out, individual legislative terms. The implementation of such a law will not require additional expenditure from the State budget of Ukraine and will contribute to the practical implementation of urgent tasks in the field of nuclear energy. The main thing is that the local community, the local authorities, can say their word when it comes to the location or construction of nuclear facilities. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u223	Dear colleagues, about amendments that aren't included. Volintz, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u224	The Timoshenko bloc wants to say that the bill is balanced, clearly stated, so I propose to vote for it, and our faction will also support this bill. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please put him to the vote as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u225	There's no other offer? It deals with voting recommendations for a second reading committee and as a whole as a bill of the Bill “On the Amendment of the Law of Ukraine on the Order of Decisions on the Placement, Design, Construction of Nuclear Installations and Objects for the Management of Radioactive Wastes which have a national significance”. [[on improving decision-making]] Please vote. [[14:03:04]] For 365 The law is passed. The draft Law on Amendments to Article 63 of the Ukrainian Law on the Pension Insurance of Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons is announced for consideration. [[on Guarantees]] Kulczynski Mikola Georgievicz, please head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear colleagues! There were only two amendments to this Law, Valery Suszkewicz and Peter Zybenko, which are included. Please, Valery Suškevitch microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u226	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich! Colleague Kulczynski is missing, so as Head of the Committee, I will report the situation under Bill 1390. First of all, as Head of the Committee, I would like to thank the author of the bill, Yuri Samoylenko, and all the people's deputies who voted in the first reading. The adoption of this bill, as a law, will prevent possible cases of a reduction in pensions for former military personnel in the event of ambiguous application of the provisions of article 63 of the Pension Insurance Act. In carrying out the recalculation of pensions, which regulates and provides the State with guarantees and improves the regulation of social legal relations in the social sphere. Helpful, respectable colleagues! Today, the Cabinet of Ministers Order of 13.02.2008, No. 45, has been in force to approve a pension recalculation procedure that actually implements these positions, and today we are simply legally consolidating these issues. So we agreed on all the questions about this bill, the corresponding amendments that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u227	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u228	The appropriate amendments were made to the second reading and by aligning financial positions with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy with the Ukrainian Pension Fund. There are two amendments on this point, I ask you to vote on the bill in the second reading and in general. Please be supportive. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u229	Dear colleagues! The proposal for a second reading adoption committee and, as a whole, as a law, the draft Act amending article 63 of the Ukrainian Law on the Pension Insurance of Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons on Guarantees is put to the vote. [[Registration number 1390]] Please vote. [[2:05:49]] For 340. The law is passed. A draft Act amending certain legislative acts is being announced for consideration. [[to simplify the procedures for providing assistance to families of the dead]] The rapporteur is the head of the committee's committee on the legal policy of Shishkin Elin Viktorovn. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u230	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The Legal Policy Committee, at its meeting on June 18, this year, considered a bill to amend some of the legislative acts that had been proposed by legal entities. [[to simplify the procedures for providing assistance to families of the dead]] [[Registration number 1140]] A total of 7 proposals came from law enforcement entities, most of them. They're all accounted for in the last one. But there were three proposals from national deputies, three Ukrainian national deputies after the 14-day deadline. They're registered. The committee's here. And that's why the committee couldn't look at them because the bill had already been finalized. Taking into account the proposals, the bill proposes to establish that. to complete article 46, part 1, of the Civil Code of Ukraine, after that. During the month following the closure of a special commission, a person who is likely to be suspected of having died or disappeared as a result of a technological or natural disaster, that is, to simplify the order within one month of the work of a special commission. The bill also suggests that help to families who have died as a result of technological or natural disasters will be paid. Legal aid in courts, for example, will be paid by a legal person in whose territory an accident occurred. In principle, the committee drafted all the proposals and decided to take the committee's decision in a second reading, taking into account the proposals made by the subject-matter of the legislative initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u231	Dear colleagues! Is there no objection? All the suggestions that have come from the National Deputy Bondick are taken into account. I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in a second reading and as a whole as a bill to amend some legislative acts. [[to simplify the procedures for providing assistance to families of the dead]] Registration number 1140. Please vote. [[14:08:36]] For 239. The law is passed. Thank you. Dear colleagues, it is now suggested that you consider the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to carry out prior documentary checks at border crossing points, the rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy Bondarev Konstantin Anatoliyovich. Please. Is there a Bondarev? Who will report from the committee? Ladies and gentlemen, the committee proposes to accept this project in the second reading and generally as a law. Can we put him to the vote? Then I beg your attention, prepare for the vote. I put forward proposals to the Second reading Committee and, in general, as a bill of the Draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to carry out prior documentary checks at border crossing points. [[Registration number 2766]] The chief legal authority has called attentionlessly to this bill. Please vote. Yuri Bogdanovich, the vote is coming, please vote. [[14:10:05]] For 212 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on re-reading the draft law. [[Registration number 2766]] To the others again. [[14:10:28]] For 233 The law is passed. Ouch! Excuse me. The law is aimed at re-reading the second reading, I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, now your opinion is the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the determination of the jurisdiction of land affairs. Registration number 1047. The Justice Committee member is Pritika Dmitry Mikitovich, and then there will be a break. Please be patient.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u232	Honourable National Deputies, to implement the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order of April 15, 2009, the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Committee on Justice revised the bill amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to determine the jurisdiction of land affairs, taking into account the comments made by entities of the law of the legislative initiative. In the process of preparing for the second reading of the law by the subjects of the legislative initiative, 21 amendments were made, most of which were taken into account. In addition, the committee took into account the proposals and observations made by the Chief Legal Authority in the drafting of the bill. In this regard, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council adopt the bill in second reading and generally as a law. But today in the hall, I was talking to the bill's author, People's MP Mishchenko, and some MPs, who have some remarks, in the paper voted by the committee. In this regard, I would like to put Vladimir Mikhailovich to the vote in an articleistic manner because they are certain.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u233	Dear colleagues, let's go to the amendments then.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u234	Vladimir Mikhailovich, one more second. I would like to point out that the title of the bill has changed. Why? Because at first we, the author of the bill, proposed to amend the Ukrainian Code of Masters, the Code of Procedure, the Code of Civil Procedure, the Code of Administrative Justice and the Law on the Courts of Arbitration. But when we systematically analyzed the bill, all but the Master’s Codex regulate these issues. Thus, article 114 of the Civil Procedure Code defines the exceptional jurisdiction of cases at the location of property and so on. The Code of Administrative Judiciality does not affect us at all, considering that article 19 also defines the full order of what appears to the administrative courts, and they consider these disputes in accordance with article 19. Therefore, the MPs and the expert board, our legal administration recommended, and we considered that this article of the bill should be drafted as follows: “The Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Economic and Procedural Code”. [[on the determination of the jurisdiction of land affairs]] It's a very important stroke, and I wanted to emphasize that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u235	Sergei Mishchenko, please, the microphone on which the amendments insist, we will vote and determine the fate of the law. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u236	I thank the committee for having actually analyzed this bill, and all the corrections that were necessary were taken into account. I want to remind all the deputies and, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to you that this bill concerns land issues being dealt with by the courts in the location of the land. And we voted in the Supreme Council for a brief review of them on the committee. But unfortunately, for two months now, this shortening process has been going on. If we're going to distract this issue now, then, you know, the question that came out of the citizens' mouth when we agreed to arrest the Kornius judge regarding the taking of the raiding land on the Kiev-Borisfield route, where these chickens are today, I'm sure people are thanking us today if we're going to adopt this law as a whole. I fully agree with that position of committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u237	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u238	I fully agree with the committee's point of view, and Dmitri Mikitovich can read under the transcript, there are three technical remedies. Just read them under the transcript, and everyone else is right there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u239	Please, Dmitri Mikitovich, read these technical papers. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u240	This is an amendment to part one of the first article 12, which we have added to this point: “The issue of disputes arising from land relations in which the economic activity is involved — and then goes on — with the exception of those referred to in the jurisdiction of the administrative courts.” The author asks that this be excluded “except for those referred to in the jurisdiction of the administrative courts”. And I fully support him. Because we don't interfere with the body of the Code of Administrative Judiciality completely. So these words really have to be removed. The same with article 16 is the same: “except for those referred to in the jurisdiction of administrative courts”. You can also remove everything else in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-25-m0.u241	Dear colleagues, taking these proposals into account, more specifically, the technical clarifications that the committee agrees with, I put to the vote the proposal, once again the committee, the adoption of the second reading and, in general, the bill of the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the determination of the jurisdiction of land affairs]] Registration number 1047, please vote. [[14:16:56]] For 299 Decision taken. The law is passed. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break until 4:00. At 16 o'clock, we'll continue the second reading of the questions.
