ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Please, Your Honor, prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[Registration of Ukrainian National Deputies]] [[10:00:41]] Cards were registered in the 439 National Deputies Session Hall, and the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine declared open. Dear colleagues, allow me to provide you with information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary meetings on June 23, 2009. 16 issues of order were discussed, 5 laws and 2 decrees were adopted, 6 bills were adopted on a basis, 3 bills and 2 draft regulations were rejected. As a result of a review of the proposal by the President of Ukraine, one law was adopted in a new edition, taking into account partial proposals by the President of Ukraine. Honorary colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, are on Wednesday 30 minutes away from speaking with statements, reports, and information from national deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the presentation from the rostrum. A record is being made of the performances of the National Deputies. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. National MP Gordienko, Communist faction. Zeno’s Skutak will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u2	Honourable Chairman, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! I was forced to make this statement by numerous media reports about the state's billions of damage to the Open Stock Exchange Company, Ukranafta, 50 percent plus one share of which belongs to the country. This is possible because of the manipulation and opacity of auctions for the sale of Ukrainian oil, as well as the implementation of this oil at underpriced prices. Let's remember. In the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget 2009 we wrote in article 3 “to establish that enterprises whose share of the State in the statutory fund exceeds 50 per cent, sell crude oil monthly exclusively on market auctions and in the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine”. At first glance, the VAT “Ukranafta”, where the enterprise's operational control is carried out by Igor Kolomojski's “Private” group. At the beginning of this year, the Ukrainian Interbank Exchange held nine so - called open auctions for the sale of Ukrainian oil. So-called is because other participants in these auctions are not happy, and more than that, foreigners are not allowed. And they go to all sorts of tricks, including breaking down auctions. Almost all the volumes of Ukrainian oil sold to several friendly “Private” intermediate structures that buy this oil at very low prices and then resell it at market prices to the Cremencucci oil refinery, which is controlled again by Igor Kolomojski. The Kremenchücke NPP itself does not go to the market. The public facts of the fact that the “Ukranafta ” was repeatedly disrupted by auctions. Then, referring to the lack of oil storage facilities, they sent it to the Kremenchuck PNZ for storage. Further oil sales took place under the conditions of its export from the company, which is unfavourable, as market participants have noted. What is more, it is simply not possible to buy oil at a low price for oil traders at trades. Now on the price policy of Skrnafti. The main oil array from 220,000 to 450,000 tons at auctions on January 21, March 24, May 22, 26, was realized at an average cost of 1,272 dollars, while its price was at NPZ 3290 dollars. On March 24th alone, our government company, selling more than 400,000 tons of oil, officially lost over 900 million dollars. Just in five months this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u3	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u4	After successfully conducting 9 U.S. oil auctions on the interbank currency market, due to complex frauds, the state did not receive 2 billion, 252 million and 114 thousand dollars. So, taking into account the particularly serious damage suffered by our State, which owns the control package of the government's shares, I turn to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General of Ukraine, to the head of the StateCRO, requiring the transparency of the Ukrainian oil auctions and the level of opportunity to participate in them, both residents and non-residents, and to give a proper legal assessment to oil machines in the Ukraine oil industry, and to take appropriate measures to prevent the theft of public funds, which our budget is so lacking in this difficult time of crisis. I ask you to consider my speech as a request to the above-mentioned seniors. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u5	Thank you. Zinovo Shkutak is transferring the right to speak to a colleague of Arjevetina, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Next up, Vasil Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u6	A statement by the parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” on the extraordinary events that took place from 11 to 12 June in the village of Dragovo in the district of Zakarpat. Honorable National Deputies, and especially the venerable inhabitants of the village of Dragovo Hustovo! We would like to draw attention to the extraordinary event that took place in the village of Dragovo, in the district of Zacarpathia, on June 11, this year. On that day, there was a conflict in the village of Dragovo between residents of the village and members of the DAI. In addition, a special unit “Berkut” was active against the locals. From the evening of June 11, until the morning of June 12, up to 30 people were detained. Berkutu’s coworkers carried out mass arrests of untrustworthy loved ones who were then in the village. At the same time, the Berkutu workers broke into the houses in masks and, according to witnesses, used physical force, searched and detained any documents without presentation. All these police actions were carried out in the presence of the parents of the detainees, their wives, the children who couldn't understand what was finally happening. Everyone was assigned to Hust’s district office. The Dragov Rural Council, the District Council held its extraordinary meetings, reviewed this clearing in the village of Dragovo and called on our deputy group and also addressed the President of Ukraine, asked us to announce these events from this rostrum of the Supreme Council and conduct a proper investigation. The evaluation of these events, of course, should not be given by the press service of the Zakartat administration of the MNS, and we should give this assessment with you after conducting an independent investigation. It is the independent commission that must answer why desperate loved ones are willing to storm the Hustian police station in an entire village? Why did that car turn over? Why do families in neighboring villages raise funds to support their loved ones? Why can't the boys do forensics for 15 days, walking around with pictures, with pictures on their hands to show off their beatings? As I met these villagers, I was unable to get an answer from the police chief when one mother approached me and said: “Please tell me two years ago that you took my son away in this way. Where's my son? It is the second year, I do not know what happened to it.” So on this tape, of course, there are many answers to these questions that I will pass on to the appropriate committee. Therefore, the parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” asks that this speech be regarded as a collective interlocutory appeal to the Attorney-General’s Office to take appropriate action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u7	Vasil Fedorovich Shpak. The next is Glazunov, a faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u8	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! The problem of water supply and supply of drinking water has plagued the world today, and it has not bypassed us. The water supply situation in Hmelnickýk was extremely difficult. The district center, the 3th-thousandth-thousandth-thousandth-thousandth-thousandth-thousandth-thousandth-thousandth-thousandth-thousandth-thousandth-thousandth-thousandth-thousandth-thousandth-thousandth-thousandth-thousandth-thousandth-thousandth-thousandth-thousandth-thousand-thousandthest-thousandthest-thousthest-thousand-thousth-thousand-thousand-thousthest-thousand-thousand-thousand-thest-thest-thousthousthest-thousthest-thousthest-thest-thousthousthest-thousthest-thousthousthest-thousthousthousthousthousthousthousthousth-th-th-th-th-th-th-thousthousthousthousthousthousthousthousth-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-thousthousthousthousthousthousthousth-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-thous-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-thous-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th In a dangerous technological situation, all 15 villages in the Krasiliv district of Hmelni district, located in the watershed area, were affected. The level of groundwater is down to 8-12 meters from which the wells have dried up, the ground is cracking, the buildings are being demolished. Once rich agricultural arrangements have been exhausted, mineral fertilizers and pesticides have been banned, costs, losses of farmers each year amount to about 30 million dollars, and no compensation is paid. There is no planned number of observational wells in the watershed area to monitor groundwater deposits, and there is no such thing as a buffer for active wells. During the year, 12 accidents took place on 12 watersheds, each of which posed a serious threat to water supply in the city of Hmelnick. Today, the problem of water pollution has become so acute that it requires immediate solutions to a number of issues and, above all, funding. Regrettably, my repeated appeals as well as the trouble of the hoptown head about providing financial assistance have failed. The Ministry of Finance, Minenergobud, Minjitcomunchóz, was limited to write-offs for the Cabinet of Ministers. Sadly, the local authorities do not care. She is more interested in extending the boundaries of rural settlements that connect to the city of Hmielnicky than in the watershed. Yes, recently, contrary to the District Council's decision, the District Council decides to extend Stupchenci's village limits by 200 hectares, Oleshin by 48 hectares, Ivankovitsa by 34 hectares. Only one million dollars have been allocated from the district budget for agriculture, while 3.2 million dollars are allocated for repairs and equipment of their own district council. That's right. Well, as far as the plumber's concerned, they don't get their hands yet. As I finish my speech, I would like to go again from this rostrum to the Cabinet of Ministers and ask them to consider the issue of graduation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u9	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u10	At least 30 million dollars for this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u11	Oleni Lukash, a faction of the Party of the Regions, gives the national deputy Glazunov the right to speak. The next will be the Teeth.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u12	Honorable colleagues, distinguished audiences, distinguished voters! Yesterday a Ukrainian citizen Valerius Oliynik was buried, whose life was cut short on June 16 on what is called the “deputy safari” in the people. I ask you now for a moment of silence to mention the memory of that unknown man who has already died and been buried. I thank all of you, especially the “Julia Tymoshenko Block”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u13	Please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u14	on the involvement of a deputy whose witnesses claim to be involved in this tragic event. We would never have raised this painful problem today from the Supreme Council's rostrum, and we would have had to investigate these circumstances if we hadn't claimed from the "Julia Timoshenko Block" that a criminal was killed, that this 50-year-old citizen was a dangerous armed maniac, because of the cessation of his criminal activity and the deputy who was involved in his murder. And the Yulia Timoshenko Block, and Julia Timoshenko herself, who will now cover this murder. There is a reward to be paid. It is this supreme cynicism that has forced me and our faction to demand once again from the judicial and law enforcement authorities, despite the fact that their high officials, Mikhailo Kowalski and Eugene Gorbenko, have been present in the killings, and very many high-ranking acts of the courts and prosecutors like to hunt with the Lozinski deputy in the interests of the State, which he has long considered to be his own, despite good hunting, to respond to this murder and to give an appropriate assessment of what has happened, because, for today, even criminal cases have been violated by the signs of crime provided for in article 121 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, “Intentual grave bodily harm”. What a “mental serious bodily harm” if our national deputies Bondik and Lukyanov took the stand and got the witness. At the rally, where, according to a version of the nardep, a “living ” person was delivered, hospital workers say something else: “We had a corpse delivered to us from Tuesday to Wednesday. The dead man was in handcuffs. On his body, we counted nine gunshot wounds, with open fractures of legs, broken ribs, and keys. Just please don't write my name." There are a lot of questions that are before the investigation today. Something like this is being done in Kirovograd in the interests of Mr. Lozinski. I'm supposed to call all these questions, but I think everyone in their heart knows the answer to them, and he knows that he's never been that miserable, this man, not a hunter, not a poacher, or a dangerously armed maniac. We know that this is going to stop, but we demand justice -- justice for this person and for all the rest of the people who are already afraid to live in this country. They're afraid because they can do anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u15	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u16	They're afraid because on any path they can meet a high-ranking official or his relatives. Meet and not live until the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u17	Valentina Zubov is transferring the right to speak to a colleague of Laszko. Oleg Lazko, please. It's a faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko. Next John Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u18	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! I would like to address yesterday's epoch event that took place in the walls of the Supreme Council: the adoption of the Budget Code in a new edition. But given the preceding speech, I would like to say a few words. The faction of the “Julia Tymoshenko Block” sympathizes with the tragic death of the man who took place, just as yesterday a tragic photographer was killed in Kharkiv. But it's a shame that our opponents are making political and small use of it for their big political purposes. I don't think it's the Bible, and the Lord doesn't welcome things that our opponents do. That's not right. Now for the adoption of the Codex Budget. It is a pleasure that the Supreme Council finally accepted it after several years of work on this document. This document is a new page in the history of local self-government, which will be given a new breath, a new impetus to its development, new financial opportunities. And I would like for history, for the stenography, separately for Ukrainian citizens, for the millions of people who hear our broadcast, to thank and thank the factions of Communists, and for the factions of the Lithuanian Block, and for the factions of the Timoshenko Yulia, and for the portions of the “Our Ukraine” faction, for all of the more than 200 deputies who voted for this document yesterday, because it will lead to almost 12,000 local budgets coming out of the hands of, in a sense, the Tatar-Mongolian flag of local leaders who, as they wish, like: the village head -- they give him money, they don't like the governor of the village head -- they don't give him money. Now today the government has changed this situation, and today all these local budgets are going to be approved by us here in the Supreme Council, at the suggestion of the government. The Supreme Council will be responsible for every budget in the country. In addition, rural budgets will receive nearly 10 billion dollars. Today, there is not enough money in rural councils to pay, and yesterday, thanks to our vote, they will receive additional money to repair roads, to FAPs, to kindergartens, and other essential measures. And it's a shame that the opposition that's said about the interests of millions of peasants and telling how it's for the village not to die did nothing yesterday to support the village. I think people are going to give us an evaluation as soon as the candidates go out and start telling us how they care about the village. Then let the heads of the village council.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u19	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u20	they ask how words differ, in fact, with actions. It should be noted that the government's initiative was supported by the majority of the Supreme Council. And we ask the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u21	Thank you. Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko, please, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u22	Honourable National MPs, honourable voters, on June 30, 2008, the decision of the Interparty Assembly of the Yulia Tymoshenko Block for gross violation, for not joining the faction, 14 Zacarpathians of the Zacarpathian District Council were deprived of their term of office. Unfortunately, however, for almost a year, under the pressure of the President’s Secretariat, there could not have been a session of the territorial electoral commission to register the following members of the district council. And it was only June 17th that there was a meeting of the Zacarpathian Regional Election Commission, which discussed the recognition of elected Zacarpathian District Council deputies. At a meeting of 25 members of the TVC, there were 19, and the session began with the presence of the head, but when the question was almost answered, the head left the committee meeting. Nevertheless, the commission made a legal decision and registered the following members of the district council. After that session, there was intense pressure, literally 30 minutes later, on all the members of the commission who voted in favour of the decision. They called as party leaders who privatized Balog in their own time, it was the “One Center”, the Democratic Party of Ukraine, the Republican Christian Party and others. The heads of trade unions, district officials, district councils, district councils, and so forth were also on the phone. At night, representatives of the district council broke in to the secretary of the territorial election commission, took the key from the office where the seal was kept. In the morning when she turned to the TV station to still put the seal on he refused very rudely. But today the pressure continues, despite the fact that the members of the district council from the Yulia Timoshenko Block have registered in the appropriate application to the district council, printed this decision of the TVC in the local newspaper, the pressure continues, and there is no way that it can stop. There were also appeals to the district attorney's office, but then people are called back and forth into different local self-governance facilities and insist that they withdraw their signatures, I mean members of the TVC. I'm talking to the Attorney General's Office today, first of all, we need to put a stop to this vacchanal, which is now being done by local self-government agencies in the work of the territorial election committees, which are being subjected to furious pressure from the authorities. It's not just a case. And last but not least, there's been a lot of criticism about the various political forces regarding the application of an imperative mandate. But all these political forces -- and our Ukraine, and the Party of Regions, and the Block of Lithuania, and the Socialist Party, and all of them -- are applying this imperative mandate where they need it. So I think that if it's legal today, and the Constitutional Court says it's legal, we have to enforce the law. Please consider my statement as a request to the Attorney General's Office to put it in order, and especially in the Zakartat district.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u23	Thank you. Mikola Georgievich Kulczycki, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Get Carpuku ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u24	Mikola Kulczynski, “For Ukraine” MP. Dear Ukrainians! This June-July is 300 years from the day of one of the most tragic events in the life of the Ukrainian people, the Battle of Poltava. The defeat of the united Ukrainian-Swedish army under Poltava was the greatest historic defeat of Ukraine, which overshadowed the prospects for national and national development for almost three centuries. This is certainly an opportunity to mention and honor our predecessors, the fighters for the Ukrainian independent state, the leaders and the simple Cossacks, and this is also a reason to think about the need for a national union without which we can expect victory and, of course, grief for thousands of innocent victims among the peaceful Ukrainian population, but there is no reason for a festival commercial show. The concept of the 300th anniversary of the Battle of Poltava was adopted by the local authorities, purposefully deprived of the State approach, which has tended to remove the main one for us Ukrainians, the idea of the national-liberal nature of those races and the role of Sweden as an ally of Ukraine. Destroyed centrally in those events is the hetman John Mazepa, whose intention was to use the Russian-Swedish armed conflict to liberate Ukraine and would take place under Poltava. Instead, a openly pro-Emperal scenario is being prepared to celebrate the anniversary of the “Victory of Russian Weapons”, barely disguised as some kind of deliberate reconciliation of the peoples. According to the city’s script, popular parties have already been held, saluting for part of the victory, and other festivities are envisaged. Of course, this concept does not include honoring the memory of the innocent ones who were unjustly tortured at the orders of Peter and the peaceful inhabitants of Ukrainian cities and villages, nor does it include opening up to this woeful date of the Gehtman John Mazepa, the funds for which the efforts of President Viktor Yashchenk of Ukraine were provided in the 2008 State Budget and which the district council, by the votes of the regions, Communists and parts of the Botanists, sent back to the budget. And what should we, Ukrainians, celebrate, indeed, the anniversary of the murder by the Russian army of the peaceful population of the Poltava villages of Nechroča, Majatské, Caliberda, Prevolved, including women and young children? Or is it the Jubilee of those inhuman tortures and deaths that the inhabitants of Baturin and the Ukrainian Cossacks experienced at the hands of the victors? The Ukrainians, whose feelings the city authorities had not intended to take care of in the face of the President’s decree at this festival, had a role not of the hosts but of the humiliated observers or of the apostates and sellers who were prepared. To cut a hook on the graves of his rolled-up ancestors. Instead of the monument to John Mazepi, the authorities were obliged to erect such an ark of reconciliation of nations, as if it were not really our assessment of those distant events of their own historical destiny and of their own nationality, but of the reconciliation and modern - day coverage of the Russians, which, by the way, no one is denying the right to their Russian central view of history. But what a reconciliation it is for Ukrainians to deny the prehistoric memory of innocently murdered and lying down in the struggle for freedom of fellow countrymen and, instead, to celebrate a foreign victory that has plagued Ukraine for several centuries. This reconciliation under the enemy's terms is called surrender. The patriotic society of Poltavščina is not going to capitulate and encourages Ukrainian patriots from all over Ukraine to participate.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u25	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u26	in the church and public mosques of the famous knights who stood next to Gehtman John Mazepa in defense of the countrymen, as well as in mourning. The opening of the parade at 11 p.m. on June 27th.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u27	Thank you! National deputy Karpuk has the right to speak with Jaroslav Kendzior, to prepare for Gnatkevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u28	Jaroslav Kenzior, “For Ukraine” MP. Dear Head, dear fellow national MPs! Unfortunately, yesterday, no one responded to another Ukrainianophobic episode of the new Kaganović deputy from the Party of the Regions of Dmitri Tobacco. What does today’s Ukrainian hater not take for granted? What worries him most, and why do we constantly see Ukraine’s hate speech and publications? This is a cleansing of Ukrainian history from the gloom of communist Soviet history. For him, as for the mole, and for such as him, the light shed on the problem of the Holocaust, the problem of repression, the problem of the UN-OPA, the adoption of the 10th article of the Ukrainian Constitution on the approval of the Ukrainian language, it is deadly for him. Of course, it stands, as it were, on this pyramid of Ukrainianophobics all over Ukraine and those behind Ukraine. I want to ask a rhetorical question. If Professor Tobacco, whose removal of a false call from which all progressive is required, the whole truth of Ukrainian intelligence, went to the promised land and declared from the rostrum of the Israeli Knesset that young Jews could not pass tests in the state language. Let him go to Moscow to see his servants and tell them that there are tests in Russia to be given in Ukrainian. Whatever happened to that scientist, that Ukrainianophobic guy today. I am convinced that Ukrainian intelligence is required, and Ukrainian leadership is obliged to remove the simplification, as it were, and remove all the false teachings from this false scholar. As a result of a consistent anti-Ukrainian Ukrainian position, I believe that no state, no other state's leadership, had such a member of the local parliament constantly trampled on Ukrainian ideals and values, would have been deprived of the citizenship of that state. And today I am addressing the President of Ukraine. The first is to teach all Ukrainianophobias, all Ukrainian haters, to deprive the citizens of this so-called Ukrainian and Ukrainian citizen of the shame and disgrace of the deputy of the Supreme Council. He's got the Kremlin to embrace him, he's got nothing to go to, because there's nothing to get an education, get a job, know the history of that state, you need to know.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u29	Thank you. So, who's going to be speaking, Yuri Gnatkevitch? Yuri Anatoliyovich faction of the "Julia Timoshenko Block", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u30	Dear MP, I'm not talking about Dmitri Tobacco, I'm copying Friedrich Engels, I'm publishing the book Anti-Ballooner. If anyone wants to read, please contact me. I want us all back, dear colleagues, until yesterday when we adopted the amendments to the Budget Code. I attended the meeting of the village heads gathered by Julia Timoshenko, and I observed with joy the Prime Minister’s comments on changes, principles, changes in budgeting principles. They hope that considerable funds can now stay in the countryside. After all, rural heads today do not count money. Rural heads now count how much money they do not have. Sadly, our peasants have been scolded by kings, swindled by the chieftains, and fooled by them today. In the past, Communists called capitalists and lodgers the most angry enemies of the workers. So today, the most angry enemies of the workers are the middlemen who profit from the peasants. And it's just a group of laws that recommend adopting a government against neutralizing a mediator. Of course, 12,000 budgets are not 800 budgets. It's going to be hard, but you have to try something, start something, eventually change something. As Mikhailo Gorbachev once said, "If nothing changes, nothing will change." But I would like to bring us back to the debate that heated yesterday between the leaders of the Communist faction and the leaders of the faction of the Party of the Regions. In order to understand the essence of this discussion, we need to look at class theory. I was never a Communist, but I used to be a Marxist. If once a Soviet society was divided into a working class, into labour agriculture, and into a branch of labour intelligence, now I may not be able to read much, but I don't hear anything to write about today's classification of today's society. I personally see a major bourgeoisie class today -- it's mostly a bourgeoisie with criminal signs, because, in fact, everything was stolen by a large amount of criminality; a middle and small bourgeoisie class that made money that built something, saved something, and a proletariat class is not a former working class, and that's all those who live on one salary today. And when Communists vote with us today, it's not because they're probably there, they're selling, or they're serving someone there, but because we're always defending the interests of proletariat, small and medium-sized bourgeoisies, and if the communists are protecting them, they're also in the same position. And regions are always voting against it because it's a party.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u31	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 30 minutes, time is up. What I can do, time's up, time's up, 30 minutes, there's nothing I can do. Another 19 people are listed here, Peter Stepanovich, your colleague spent a minute and a half if you want to bill. Dear colleagues, statements, reports, information has been completed. Regarding the suggestions made in the presentations, I ask the Secretariat to prepare appropriate assignments. Let us now consider some of the issues identified by Wednesday’s schedule. Dear colleagues, we need to decide now on the question, namely: this is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2009. [[on the minimum cost of living and the minimum wage]] Registration number 4557. I would like to remind you that at the Conciliation Board meeting, we agreed that this issue would be considered. At the same time, it was proposed that the committee consider the relevant draft law and submit the corresponding accounts to the bill. Regrettably, the committee did not consider the matter. So I would suggest that we go this way, and I ask your attention and support, namely: vote on inclusion in the agenda, assign the committee today to consider this issue and then bring it up to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, say Thursday, and make the right decision. Because there's a letter from the committee saying that the committee hasn't considered this issue and is asking him to give it a chance to discuss it. It would now be possible to vote on the inclusion of the issue in the agenda and decide on the outcome of the committee’s decision. What do you think about that, dear colleagues? Budget Committee. Well, that's a budgetary question, the Committee on Budget Affairs. Because there's a bill, but there's no committee decision on that. So let me put a vote on the inclusion of the bill in the agenda, this is registration number 4557, the inclusion in the agenda and its consideration after the committee's decision. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[10:37:16]] For 232 Questions are included in the agenda. I ask the committee to consider this bill and to present its conclusion for discussion by its Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, in view of what we need to consider today as well as the report of the Commissioner for Human Rights, there is a request that we have discussed at the meeting of the Conciliation Council: to consider short - lived bills. I'm voting on this proposal, and I'm asking you to support it. [[10:38:05]] For a hundred and Decision taken. A draft Industrial Safety Act is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 2201]] Rapporteur – Ukrainian National Deputy Volinec Mikhailo Jaković and co-rapporteur – head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Enterprise Gacko Valeri Petrovich. Mikhail Yakovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, the safety of industrial production is regulated today by two laws of Ukraine – "On Work Protection" and "On Objects of Increased Danger". At the same time, I want to say the following: that very many of the issues that concern the protection of work, control, responsibility, they are not regulated today, and the Work Protection Act has been adopted 15 years ago, there are many questions to be written in order to write a special law on industrial safety in Ukraine. What I'm saying is that we have consulted with the Academy of Sciences, with many institutions, departments, a group of representatives of all the factions of Ukraine that have drafted this bill. And the incentive for such a bill to be written was that at the end of 2007, more than 100 people were killed in one of Ukraine's mines, but I wonder why this bill had not yet been considered in Parliament and we are only looking at it in the first reading today. Because after that, there were major accidents on Carl Marx's mine, on the Novozyrzynska mine, where the state commission had not yet made a final decision, on the Scottish mine, where people were also killed. I just want to say in the coal sector that in the last 8 years, 1,300 people have died in Ukraine, think about it. The biggest injury in the coal sector in the world is in Ukraine. And let's see what's happening in metallurgy, in engineering, in agriculture, in construction and all that. That's why we need to legally establish a clear definition, a terminology, an area of activity, a distribution of powers, who conducts and conducts an assessment of the state of industrial security that supervises. And industrial security itself is a dream of protecting people's lives and health.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u33	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u34	This is a state of protection for people from dangerous factors. So please, Your Honor, Your Honor, support this bill in the first reading. Those remarks you made, we're going to work on them and we're going to take them into account for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u35	Thank you, too. Gacko Valery Petrovich, please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u36	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship at its meeting on April 16, this year, reviewed the draft Industrial Safety Act introduced by national deputies Volinz, Orota, Turmanov, Dove and Vyazevski. The purpose of the bill is to define legal, economic, social, and organizational principles for ensuring that hazardous manufacturing objects function unhindered. The chief scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council's apparatus, in its conclusion to the bill, believes that the first reading of the draft Law on the Safety Industry should be completed for re-reading. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, as a result of its consideration of the bill at its meeting on April 2, this year, I propose that it be rejected. During the discussion, members of the committee pointed out that the introduction of the bill would contribute to the introduction of a clear, balanced system of industrial security surveillance, which would create favourable conditions for further development of production, as well as a higher level of safety, warning of accidents and accidents. However, the scope of application of the law needs to be clarified. There is a need to redesign individual project positions. As a result, the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship recommends to the Supreme Council a draft of the Ukrainian Industrial Safety Act as a basis for consideration in the first reading. The draft decree is given to you. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u37	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion if you need to. Please sign up. Put the names of the national deputies on the board. Evening, faction of the Party of the Regions. Microphone, please, or on the rostrum as best you can.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u38	Evening, Party of Regions. Thus, respectable colleagues, the law that we must adopt today, is important to all workers who are primarily involved in mining and mining. It aims to protect the legal, economic, social and organizational foundations of the enterprises concerned and is linked to the life and health of workers. The faction of the Party of the Regions will therefore vote in favour of the bill in order to adopt it as a basis, refine and adopt it as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u39	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u40	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”, a parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues, the idea deserves attention in spite of the negative characteristics of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, we need to adopt this law as a basis. Because if we take death rates in Ukraine, trauma in general in the third and fourth places in recent years, and much of this trauma is injury in production, because many people who go to work in the morning don't return from work in the evening, and we know that 1 million coal mines in Ukraine are three deaths of coal miners, so we really need to continue to improve this legislation, but at the same time we see in this law that, in addition to the ideologies of protecting the manufacturer to some extent, there are situations that provide for lobbying of the Democratic Republic, and that is why this law needs to be worked out in such a way that it is for a person, not for that State. of the monitoring body. That's why we're here to adopt this law as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The committee's offering to accept. Vladimir Yavorowski, please, one minute. You're right about the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, this is a really important bill. "Julia Tymoshenko's Block" is going to be unanimous. This bill is supported. But I'd like to. We've already done that, in the epicenter of those, so catastrophes, accidents that are, security breaches tend to focus on miners. Well, that's understandable, because there are often literally mass tragedies, numerous human tragedies. But I would just like to point out that this bill is very important for the whole function of agriculture. Ukraine's functioning. I recently returned from my constituency, where there really was a tragedy, where a young boy, hiding the roof of a dormitory that was illegally owned by Mr. Bachmach, fell and crashed. And by the way, the D.A. didn't even bring any business. As a result, we will be required to support such a bill in the Timoshenko Block of July. There are some comments, but I think between the first and the second readings we'll take them there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u43	Yes. Honorable colleagues! The committee proposes to adopt a bill as a basis. Are there any other comments and suggestions? Yuri Carmazin, please. One minute, I get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u44	Thank you, Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, you've asked for your comments. Article 17 goes beyond, goes beyond the Constitution of Ukraine, it foresees that – it is called “Sanctions for violating the requirements of legislation” – and it foresees that the order and size of fines and responsibilities are established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[project]] This directly contradicts the existing Constitution of Ukraine and this rule must be deleted because it is difficult to vote for a bill that is needed in general if it is available. So I would ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, given that this article just needs to be removed, Article 17, put this project to a vote. It's my regulatory right to delete things if they conflict with the Constitution. By the way, there are things in the 12 articles that conflict, but I think those things will be deleted later. So far, this has to be removed because this is a brutal violation of the Constitution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u45	Dear colleagues! We accept the bill as a basis for preparing for the second reading, and in preparing for the second reading, there will be an opportunity for both the Chief Legal Authority and the distinguished National Deputies, and I would ask the committee to take into account the comments made by Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin. A recommendation to the adoption committee is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Industrial Safety Act. [[Registration number 2201]] Please vote. [[10:49:07]] For 377 Decision taken. It is suggested that you consider, your fellow Members, the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the organization of arbitrary procedures. [[Registration number 3005]] The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Kseniya Mikhailn Leapina. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u46	[[Speak Without a microphone]] . a proposal is made for a bill aimed at implementing Ukrainian legislation in accordance with the law on the system of permits. I would like to point out that the scope of implementation is very broad, and today all authorities are trying to submit relevant bills. However, the bill focuses on the functional sphere, namely, the design of construction projects and the removal of land, and the design and disposal of land. This is what I think is needed first, especially today, and to prepare Ukraine for the Euro-2012. Only three laws are amended, specifically in several articles of these laws, and the first law is about fire safety. Article 10 is amended to meet the requirements of fire safety in the design and reconstruction of manufacturing and other objects. In addition, article 10.1 regulates the issuing of such permits. It identifies who issues the date of issue, the grant of the permit free of charge, and identifies who deals with the issue of expertise that takes place prior to the issue of the permit. The second, where changes are made, is the Labour Protection Act. We have just talked to you about this subject, and it is here again that only a small part of the problem, article 21, is to meet the requirements for the protection of work in the design and reconstruction of construction and manufacturing facilities. Again, it is the only principle on which to issue, on what basis to issue, on what grounds to refuse, on what grounds to revoke, and what the cost of expertise is proposed to give such authority to the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u47	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u48	And the third law that's last amended here is the Health and Epidemiological Welfare Act, and it's also about design, land allocation, where the Sanitation Service gives proper consent and permission. Once again, the only principle: who gives permission, what terms, who sets the cost of expertise, on what grounds can be denied permission. Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to back up on the basis, and I've reviewed and supported this bill as a basis. I am convinced that your comments we are working on the second reading, convinced that the adoption of this bill will actually help us speed up the work and the introduction of the Euro-2012. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u49	Thank you! Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for this bill. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Catherine Vaschuk and Adam Martinyuk, please Katerina Timothy’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u50	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Of course, this bill in time, we all know what are the problems with getting permits when we take people into our constituencies. There is a need to improve in the direction of simplifying these procedures, because it is very often possible to overcome the corridors of all the organizations in which these documents need to be harmonized in a short time, not just months, but years. But this bill will support our faction in the first reading. However, it would be desirable for the second reading to be included in article 10, paragraph 1, on harmonization with firefighters, namely, that there is no clear indication as to which State fire authorities are to reconcile, nor is there any indication as to which objects to be reconciled. Here we go. It's written so vaguely that even on the rent of the apartment, it's possible to match everything with fire safety. This will also complicate the actions of our entrepreneurs. So when this bill is being drafted, it's going to have to be made more specific about the legal system in dealing with state fire agencies. There are questions about payment and other differences. The same is true of sanitary and epidemiological well - being.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u51	Yes, Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u52	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! We're almost every day one, two of these laws, we're considering, this week, a few more laws are going to be similar in terms of permissive procedures, permits and so on, and so forth. At first, I'm sorry, we've impersonated, we've put entrepreneurs in a situation where they can't survive, and now everyone's trying to save, starting with those who put them in that situation. You see, the fact that a number of laws that are not supported here on the second day are already passed by the same law just under a new number and a poem of heights, let's simplify the free system and so on, and so on and so forth. Perhaps it was worth putting these 10 or 20 laws together and adopting one law that would give life to this category of people. There's no doubt that we need to support this bill, but I really do, first, and I agree with those remarks that need to be made more clearly, because now it seems like permission should be given by the central, territorial and local fire department. So it's written, unfortunately, so all three will give one license. This needs to be harmonized. I would very carefully ask for permission to do so in terms of sanitation, because it's like fire, but even more sanitary and epidemiological, it's pretty close to human life. There you have to write more clearly and mark the lines. And one more thing. Since it is proposed that these permits are now granted free of charge, this has an appropriate impact on the income portion of the budget, so to introduce this law after. You can't sign it a month after you sign it. In preparation for the second reading, it will be necessary to write, at least, from January 1st of the following year. And in general, let's support this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u53	Vladimir Yatsuba, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u54	Dear People's Deputies, Mr. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to support those who have just spoken: both Catherine Vaschuk and Adam Martinyuk -- in the matter that this law is really necessary. But the rules of this law have to be written, first of all, the terms of the permit, the exact terms, and if those terms. As this is done everywhere, and if these terms are violated, the organization that should grant permission should be held accountable. And secondly, all decisions are made at the location of an object that is either authorized by a company. What's going on? In the Dnipropetrov area, firefighters, for example, in the Curve Rose, where there are 800,000 people, there are all the MCS structures that are given only in the district center. And that's how it is all over Ukraine. Therefore, the law states that residence permits are granted. It's saving people time and nerves and stuff.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, the 3005 bill has been discussed. Committee proposal: accept as a basis. I am voting on the proposal for a committee to adopt as a basis for the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the organization of permit procedures. [[Registration number 3005]] Please vote. [[10:59:28]] For 354 Decision taken. A draft Act amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Insurance Act is being introduced. [[on the mandatory insurance of tourists]] [[Registration number 1180]] The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Miroshničenko Yuri Romanović. Correspondent is head of the Committee on Finance and Banking Committee Klimenko Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u56	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. I'd like to report that bill that was actually born out of court practice. And in the process of working on this bill, we've taken into account those observations, as science and expertise have done to us, which I would like to thank. What are we talking about? We agree on two laws: the Tourism Act and the Insurance Act. The Tourism Act says that every tourist who travels around should be protected from accidents and, in fact, from harming his health. The Insurance Act, in turn, did not include this type of insurance in the compulsory form. At the same time, the Insurance Act states that these types of compulsory insurance, which are not listed in this law as compulsory, are prohibited. So there is a contradiction between the two laws. The Tourism Act makes such insurance compulsory, and the Insurance Act prohibits such insurance. So, basically, there's no discussion here. I think we could take it immediately and in the first reading as a basis and as a whole. Now Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk and I have discussed what is the difference between the situation that exists now that we are obliged to fear a business entity. He fears his responsibility. And the accident then, Adam Ivanovich, is, only when the fault of this subject has been proven. And when this error is not proven, or some, of the circumstances to which the tourist company has no bearing, the compensation of the tourist does not take place.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u57	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u58	At the same time, the fear that this will be additional expenses for tourists is not justified, since the subject of the insurance will still be the tourist company that is still in fear. So I think that this law, from the point of view of its content, can also be adopted in general, not just on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u59	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Alexander Ivanovich Klimenko, committee decision
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u60	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, the Committee on Finance and Banking at its meeting on June 4, last year, reviewed the bill. He also wanted to thank the author of the bill for the fact that, in fact, he foresees exactly the disagreements that are in the Insurance Act and in the Tourism Act. This is a necessary standard. Of course, it came out of the passing of a bill of world practice when every person crossing the border, a person taking a tourist trip, has to insure his or her life in case of a life-threatening life, or some disease or other. Our committee, after considering this issue, and it also says, first of all, that I will agree to it. To take it as a base. Given that the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority has no substantive observations, since this bill has been tabled as a substitute, and the committee's decision is to support it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u61	Thank you, too. Have a seat. Dear colleagues, please sign up for discussion. There's an entry to discuss the bill. Names of the National Deputies, please take them to the board. Ariev, please, the faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Please, we can go now.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, the law is really necessary, because the situation of insurance for Ukrainian tourists going abroad is now quite controversial, but the question is whether, first, this insurance will not lead to the fact that this obligation will be made by tourist companies to do so in such a way that a person who already has, for example, an active, existing insurance will be obliged in a package of tourist services to buy another, additional one. For example, I did not understand from this law whether this law rules out that a person who eats and has a valid insurance policy should not buy it in a bag. And the second. A very important moment is the insurance of Ukrainian tourists from their own tourist companies, who often do not do beautiful things, in fact leaving Ukrainian tourists without help abroad, as was the many times in the past tourist season, when Ukrainian tourists were actually left alone with problems, in particular there was no plane that would take them out of the country, visa problems, as was the case in Egypt, very many things that occurred in Ukrainian tourists there. I think maybe this law could be further developed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u63	Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u64	Dear colleagues and especially respected tourists who are meeting are now summer seasons away, and respected tour organizers! Now talking to the drafter of the bill, he seems to have a good purpose, as if he wants to do well, but it's done badly. I don't know if you all have a bill that's being proposed, so I'm going to let myself read it because it's made up of one sentence. Now in article 7 of the Insurance Act, which is called “See compulsory insurance”, paragraph 31 states: “Crutting the responsibility of tourism operators for damage caused by the life or health of a tourist or his property”. That is, the tourist company is now obliged to insure the tourist’s life. The author proposes to take this responsibility and write down “Tourist intimidation medical and accident according to the Ukrainian Tourism Act”. I mean, he's now afraid and he's bound to do it by the company, and he's proposing that every tourist do it on his own. So it's done as usual and they want to prove that great good is done for people. So, dear fellows, if you'd like to take responsibility for tourism companies that make huge profits for tourists, please vote and the tourists will say, “Thank you”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u65	Arjevitin, one minute, please. Arjevitina's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, this is an option when I share the previous speaker, because this bill actually removes responsibility from tourist operators, from tourists to people. And we need to think about whether this is a fundamental question of whether we bear this responsibility. Keep going. The author deleted the main rule. We used to have property insurance, and today it's gone. Therefore, the suggestion is not to accept it as a whole but to send it back for rereading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. You heard the argument. At the same time, I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of a bill amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Insurance Act. [[Registration number 1180]] [[on the mandatory insurance of tourists]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:09:33]] For-136 The decision is not taken. I would like to vote on the bill for re-reading. Registration number 1180. Please also identify. [[11:09:59]] For 295 Decision taken. Please, Yuri Miroshnichenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u68	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. I have great respect for Adam Ivanovich, but now he's being a little manipulative, I think. For the very contents of the law are not those who are in fear but those who are in fear. To this day, firms are making sure that our money is theirs. There the subject was not determined by the insurance, but by responsibility. And accordingly today, if there is a situation in the courts where the company that went on the trip is not to blame in that case, people do not actually receive insurance compensation. We offered to insure the tourist customers, and we'd do insurance anyway. Here's the content of the bill. And I hope that before we consider it again, I will be able to explain to our colleagues the meaning of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u69	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think we need to work out a way to make this clear. Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, if there are no charges, please read the law yourself. The law now states: “The fear of the responsibility of tourism operators for the damage caused by the life or health of the tourist or his property”. I mean, it's the tourist company that's in danger right now. It's taken away, and it's offered tourist insurance, which is now going to be the tourist's insurance.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u71	Thank you. It should be noted that tourist structures carry out insurance directly for tourists and all. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, I'm asking you to take a closer look at this clarification, and we'll work out, more specifically, a bill. Dear colleagues, your point of view is proposed by the draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 1463. [[on cash-free settlement and use of special means of payment]] Reporter: Arzvetin Stanislav Mikhajlovich, the first deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, the drafters of this bill are the national deputies of Gorbal, Burjak, Svetoš, Logwinenko, but I have been instructed to report this bill for them. It's about increasing the number of e-accounts in Ukraine, that is, reducing cash calculations, which is really an urgent problem in our country. Today we have 40 million credit cards and this is a huge credit to the banking system. Each Ukrainian today has a plastic card in his pocket. In 15,000 stores today, it is possible to speed up with such a plastic card and 64,000 payment terminals with the banking system at the expense of these stores. But in large numbers, this represents only 8 percent of the electronic payment standards that exist in other countries of Europe. The National Bank provides statistics that only 6 percent of card transactions are done on a cash-free basis on a trading network. In general, cards are now a cashier’s function in order to obtain and use cash in calculations. The purpose of the bill is to regulate at the level of public policy the scope of the bill, using payment cards involving individuals and legal persons. This is especially relevant when we have the 2012 European Football Championship in Ukraine. The authors are saying that if this bill is improved, the state will be able to save between 500 million and 700 million dollars to service the cash market, as a minimum, from 8 billion we can, and more, get cash circulation into cash-free circulation, that is, calculations.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u73	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u74	Actually, I could do it from the committee, more.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u75	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u76	Ladies and gentlemen! I also have the commission to speak with our committee. We've been looking at this bill of Gorbal, Burjak, Saint, Legwinenko. We agreed to accept it in the first reading, considering that there are very many observations by the Scientific and Expert Committee of the Administration, as well as by the National Bank of Ukraine. We also asked the authors to remove from their bill everything relating to tax rules and to put it into a separate, appropriate bill, the authors agreed. So given that, we propose to adopt this bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u77	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please write down if you need to express your position. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Mikola Kulczynski, please. Where's Kulczynski? Please don't make me uncomfortable. Please, Irina Akimov. Then take a minute, you don't just have to do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u78	Dear colleagues! This law goes in principle, and we want a good one, but we force it into this good one. Of course, it is a good thing to translate into meaningless calculations, but it does not have to be forced into it at all. As a result of this law, there may be enormous social tensions, especially among representatives of small and medium-sized businesses, because the limits for the use of cash calculations are falling dramatically. This will particularly affect the interests of owners of small cafes, small service centres and other small businesses. That's why, let's think about it, and yet we'll find another form of incentive for reckless calculation. In addition, the law, which the author has not mentioned, has an interesting element: the new functions of the National Bank, which registers international payment systems. And on the part of our international partners, there will be very strong objections. Therefore, I propose that this law be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u79	Please, Arjevitin one minute from the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to say, as a national deputy, I also share the opinion of the previous speaker, and I have reported on behalf of the committee, and I want to say that this bill actually forces the introduction of a mandatory form of calculation. I don’t think the authors gave an argument as to why this should be a norm. Secondly, there's a lot of stuff, electronic money, a stop sheet and stuff that's not being used in legislation today. Also, what the previous MP has just said about international payment systems being re-registered at the National Bank, it's not in line with the rules and regulations. I think even the constitutional rights of citizens to limit cash forms of accounting are being violated, I don't think it's time to make such restrictions. And it also violates the equality of the right to enter into entrepreneurship. The National Bank has made a lot of comments to this bill, you realize that it is a key figure in electronic accounting and its conclusion that this bill requires substantial work. So I invite the authors to return the draft to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. [[Registration number 1463]] The committee proposes to accept it as a basis. I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on non-cash settlement and the use of special means of payment. Based on the base. [[11:19:19]] For the four of us. The decision is not taken. I'll put another motion for a vote, for a re-read, let the session room determine. [[Registration number 1463]] Let's do it again. [[11:19:49]] For -14 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. Dear colleagues! Now we need to get into the agenda and decide on decisions on a number of drafts. May I have your attention, please? A vote is taken on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law on the Protection of Property and Natural Persons. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[11:20:38]] For-24 The decision is not taken. The bill is not included in the agenda, the author of which is the national deputy of Ukraine Novikov. Let's go, the bill is rejected. [[Purity of the Rows to Be With Us]] In the next session, we will return to his consideration. And I ask you to consider other bills that will now be put to the vote. I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the licensing of certain types of economic activity in respect of security services, the author of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Hennaday Hennadijovich Moskal, please vote. [[Registration number 1465]] [[11:21:36]] For-39 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. The next thing you know, your honor, these are two draft laws: 4345, 4345-1 -- about the volunteer movement. It's from a package of bills in preparation for the Euro-2012. Governmental as well as national deputy of Ukraine Jeresko Igor Hennadyovich. I'm voting for the inclusion in the agenda of Law 4345, 4345-1 on volunteering. Please vote. [[11:22:25]] For-195 The decision is not taken. A government vote may be put to the vote, and then an alternative will be considered automatically. Well, convincing evidence has always convinced me, no. The bill was rejected. If the bill is not included in the agenda, it is rejected by the Rules and the next session may be considered. [[B in m in s a l in]] We didn't make it? I'm going to put a vote on the return to the draft law (registration number 4345, 4345-1) on the part of the inclusion in the agenda. Return to consideration of inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[11:23:33]] For 210 The decision is not taken. Yes, I've already announced that it's rejected. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? – vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the activities of non-profit organizations. [[Registration number 4563]] The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Agrarian Politics Schmidt Roman Mikhailovich. It's a government bill. Please vote. For inclusion in the agenda, please vote. [[11:24:21]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we haven't made it. The process, one minute, began in retaliation for not voting on a bill. I see how colleagues behave. Vaszczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, I think maybe not all colleagues have paid attention to the bill. The bill provides for the activities of those cooperatives who will work in the countryside. These are cooperatives that can be created by organizing urban treatment; cooperatives that will help to process the land to those who cannot buy technology; but they need to help them to pick up the city, to pilfer. Cooperatives that will help to dispose of animal production, a plant that is grown in dowry areas. That is what peasants need today! There is no such sphere today, if these cooperatives do not work, the monopolists will continue to oppress the peasants. I beg of you, let us support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u83	Ivan Hare, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u84	Ivan Rabbit Ukrainian People's Party faction "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking you to come back to this bill because it's about structures that allow us to create a modern agricultural infrastructure. I want to draw your attention to the fact that agriculture is not just a large enterprise, it's a farm, it's a personal farm, and it's a very cloudy farm service infrastructure today. It's, if you want, people on their own. So, I think, given the importance of cooperation in rural development, in the development of agricultural production, I hope that we will go back to the consideration of this bill, which has been walking through the walls of the Supreme Council for a long time, and we are voting for it, because this is the legislative framework that allows today to create material infrastructure for agricultural services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u85	Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u86	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, we must now stop and see what has been done before this. And before that, there's a lot of serious drafts going on in the daytime. And they're only buried because, in principle, they're mine or not. I'm asking you very much, if we've already entered into the agenda and this decision has been taken by the Conciliation Council of factions, let's listen to these bills. If not, then let us cancel the Conciliation Council of factions and say that they do not accept it. And now there's lunch, and there's some MPs who have a perfectly legitimate dinner for other deputies, and they don't support the bill. This bill is extremely necessary for citizens, because it will lower prices for agricultural products in the end, here's what it will do! He'll give people an alternative. Therefore, it should be accepted as the previous bills should have been adopted. So I ask you to forget the insults, now to take and vote, to include, and then to go back to the ones that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u87	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've already considered this bill, but it was prepared by the deputies and it wasn't supported. Now the government has essentially set up a parliamentary initiative and is proposing to consider it. Let's get out of the way of what the interests of the matter are. At least we will include it in our consideration and consideration, and then we will determine the outcome of the discussion. And I'd like to ask my insults to leave behind the walls of the Supreme Council and here to demonstrate the state's position. I am voting for a return to the consideration of the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the activities of non-profit organizations. [[Registration number 4563]] Please vote. [[11:29:19]] For 239. We're back on the subject. I am now voting for inclusion in the agenda of the 4563 project. [[11:29:43]] For 236 Decision taken. Thank you. Reporter – Deputy Minister of Agriculture Policy Schmidt Roman Mikhajlovich, co-rapporteur – Head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations of Jury Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u88	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on non-profit organizations, designed by the government to support supportive individual peasant and farm farms in the creation of their service cooperatives for the production of produce, land processing, harvesting. This category of small agricultural producers produces more than 60 percent of gross agricultural production and 80 - 96 percent of individual foods without any State support. The bill amends the Ukrainian Laws “On Taxation of Business Income” to include service cooperatives in non-profit organizations with the aim of exempting them from double taxation, “On Agricultural Cooperation” in recognition of non-profit-based service cooperatives and providing them with State support. Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Farming are also being made to the proportion of service cooperatives created by farmers to non-profit organizations. The adoption of this law will facilitate the introduction of national cooperative legislation in accordance with the rules of the United Nations, the International Labour Organization, the International Cooperative Alliance, its adaptation to European standards, the creation and effective functioning of agricultural cooperatives in the country, increase the access of subsidized, private farmers and farmers to the agricultural production network, contribute to the creation of additional jobs in rural areas, and increase the profitability of farming to the level of social protection of the rural population. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u89	Thank you, sit down, please. Mikola Volodymyrovich is head of the committee. Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u90	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich! Ukraine's draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws on non-profit organizations is designed to provide State support for agricultural cooperatives and to define them as non-profit organizations. [[Registration number 4563]] The development of agricultural service cooperatives is an important development in the agricultural sector. These theories have been repeatedly highlighted in recent times from the rostrum of different levels, both the representative of the authorities and the political forces in our legislative body. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Ukraine has a large number of individual agricultural holdings: 4.7 million, 42,000 farmers. and more than 10 million natural persons are agricultural producers. And today the issue is not settled, and you and I understand clearly that about 90 percent of agricultural production -- vegetables, fruits, milk -- is produced in the private sector. And today our task with you is to deliver this product, and its more than five million tons, to the consumer. And without this network that's proposed in this bill, we're not going to be able to do it with you. Why? Because the private sector does not have the capacity to write overheads, the private sector does not have the capacity to leave the city and the private sector does not have the ability to participate in the market and to influence price policies. And you and I find that more than 300 percent of the loop comes from the middleman. These cooperatives will make it possible to avoid.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u91	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u92	This will allow us to avoid all intermediaries, and thus we will preserve today the vital private OSHs that feed the country. So the committee. The committee's decision is to support this bill in the first reading and to base it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u93	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. Please sign up, Your Honor, to discuss this bill. The names of the national deputies please be placed on the information board. Katerina Vaschuk, please. Then Lukyanova. John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u94	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill that we are currently discussing is designed to solve three tasks, the main tasks. The first is to help farmers cultivate their land, grow crops on it. The second is to help the peasants unite in the marketing of cultivated products; to enable them to be implemented at decent prices and in such a way that they enter this agricultural market, which today is largely monopolized by those processing enterprises, commercial and manufacturing companies and firms that are monopolies in the market and dictate the permanent peasant's underpriced prices, earning the peasants and making money on those buyers who buy overcrowded prices in the city. And the third is to allow you to create additional jobs in the village. These will be workplaces and mechanics, and those who help to collect and implement products. So we're taking a real step towards organizing a civilized rural infrastructure that should help farmers, individual farmers, supporting farmers to grow and dispose of their products. Otherwise, tell us how we will answer in our districts to peasants who have grown potatoes, carrots, sugar beet trees, table barrels -- and can't be delivered individually by everyone to the buyer? And it comes to what they're exchanging for the coffeehouses brought in from the South.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u95	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u96	I don't understand which schemes and prices. Colleagues, there is no politics -- purely economic law that is called upon to help peasants. Let's support it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u97	Thank you. The national deputy Lukyanov is delegating the right to speak to John the Rabbit. Vladimir Bondarenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u98	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Dear National Deputies, with these amendments to the Law on Agricultural Workers' Cooperatives, we lay down, in principle, new conditions for the formation of price policies for food and services because we grant status to non-profit cooperatives. So we're essentially disposing of these structures of this revenue-hunting thing that's going to overwhelm today's prices. That's the first one. The other one. We're going to create better conditions for pricing because the state has to support these structures because agriculture has a very large monopoly. And this monopoly needs to be fought. Agriculture is a type of activity where a person is directly linked to the natural resource associated with land, with animals, and it is clear that there must be very many small enterprises, there must be hundreds of thousands of farms, and so such a major production structure as agriculture should produce new infrastructure. There are supposed to be very mobile service providers, there have to be mobile service providers. And to do that, we need state support, we need to fight the monopoly, and we need to think about that today, how to provide State support. I can give you a few figures, by whether or not the villagers lose 15-20 billion dollars a year because of monopolism on milk alone. I was recently in the Ivano-Frankiv region. Today, entire captives are besieged by the fact that the price of milk is 90 copies, and there is no one to give it up. And people cut cattle, and that's how they take away their sources of income, take away their prospects, and these captives grow. Similarly, we see the price of these 90 copies.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u99	Yes. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u100	Central or Southern Ukraine. The same can be said about pork, you can talk about the price of livestock, so I think we have to accept this bill with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u101	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u102	Open the possibility to create a new infrastructure.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u103	Thank you. Mr. Vladimir Dmitrovich Bondarenko, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko and the People's Deputy of Matthew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u104	"Julia Timoshenko Block", Vladimir Bondarenko. Dear friends, well, surely there are different views of this law in this room. And when I was writing, I was pushing "against" all I meant was tactics to get the word, because they can't all be "Pro". I'll be in favour, of course, but I'll talk about the motives. It seems to me that the motivations of our friends are the Communists here. They want to re-establish the cylindrical system. This will no longer happen, and we may need to think about how we can develop in a world market that is getting closer and closer to us or is already coming to us. But the motives of our regional colleagues are completely unclear. Because, well, it's a principle to act “and Grandma Yaga vs.” is obviously not quite right. Because that's what the village needs. Such cooperatives serve, they are all over the world. I was familiar with the situation in farming in America, so there are people working together to process the land, they have three combines between them, beans there are corn and so on. They co-operate by selection, they co-operate by insurance funds, they co-operate by sale. Today we're talking about creating, actually serving cooperatives in rural areas that will serve a peasant who can't tear himself away, he can't leave without eating a cow, he can't leave an unprocessed field, so these cooperatives will provide for themselves to be created by peasants, they'll act in their interests first and deliver them to markets to be fair prices. This is a perfectly normal trend in rural development in Ukraine. You see what's going on in the markets? There are the same people who buy agricultural products for cash, who have no relation to the village, and never have, who dictate prices today, which are insurmountable for those who earn enough. So I would urge everyone who has a mind today and who wants to help the village to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u105	National MP Matthews, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u106	Deputies! Respectable people of Ukraine who listen! I want to draw attention to the following, I think, economics in the agrarian sector has gone in a closed circle. What have we done, return what the rulings in Ukraine have done with the agricultural sector? At first, they tore up the land and property, that is, those who now own the land, gave them the right to use the land, to cultivate the land, to cultivate the land, and to deny the land, because they have no equipment, no agriculture, and gave the land owners the opportunity to be renters on their own land, that is to say, to rent it, and to watch who rents it. Or try to make the cultural rotation of a seven-year-old or three-year-old, whatever it is that's practically impossible. What is the author of this law trying to offer us today? The author of this law is trying to restore some form of collective management to us today, and the Constitution lacks the notion of collective property. If we're combining something cooperative, we have to figure out what kind of property it's going to be. If this is a collective form of property, it is necessary to amend the Constitution and not adopt the law that we adopted on first reading, that is the first. Secondly, we return to what has already been done, at least in principle, to sell private sector products, there has been a demand operation. Where'd she go? She's privatized. What do we want to create now, a new demand operation? If there were no colchuses, frankly, many of us would be so thin and thin that it would not be possible to speak to them from this rostrum. That's why I think when you're talking about Communists wanting to go back to their colossal state, we hear it from people.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u107	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u108	Calm down, calm down. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The committee proposes to accept it as a basis. There is a vote on the proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the activities of non-profit organizations. [[Registration number 4563]] Please vote. [[11:45:56]] For 234 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the employment of citizens who own land. [[usage]] [[Registration number 4568]] You know it's a government bill, you know, the President of Ukraine noticed the law, the Supreme Council of Veto didn't beat it. Adam Martinyuk, please, for the reasons of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u109	Thank you! Martinuk is a faction of Communists. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! It's very good that you said today that bills that are not included in the agenda are regarded as rejected. I'd like to remind you that the third number of this month is no longer in the agenda, that's the first. The other one. Unfortunately, it has nothing to do with the bill that the President had made, because what the President had made, we wanted to help the villagers. Now the government wants not to help the peasants, and by the way the veto, the President's veto, the faction that has formed the government, and they want to bring another stalemate on the peasant's neck, and the more toss this stalemate now into the heads of the village councils, so that the heads of the village councils will be the ones who will help you: the profit field, or the profit field, you work in the field, or you don't work in the field, you'll be at the center of employment, or you won't be at the center of employment. We haven't put him in the daytime.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u110	Roman Takak faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u111	Roman Tkaj group “For Ukraine”. Dear colleagues! Think about it and read more about what is proposed here in the bill. That's ridiculous. The third article says that the busy population is those who own land, all those who own land, or those who use it, not exclusively: 10 hundred, 15 hundred, acre, two, three. At the same time, they introduce a new article and say that those who have but do not process it can go to the stock market and that means that I have five acres and want to stand on the stock market, and I don’t sow them, and I go to the center of employment and stand on the stock market. And all of this is controlled by rural councils. First of all, there's no information in the village councils that has any land, all the information is in the district government services, so it's completely absurd, it can't be voted on. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u112	Please, Mikhaylo Chechtov then Vaschuk, and then we'll listen before the vote of the minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u113	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! I fully agree with previous speakers, with their reasoning, especially with Adam Ivanovich's argument. The policy of double government standards is simply not understood. Well, there was a bill, a great bill, balanced, that would solve the problem once and for all, this viciously ill village. It took courage to push the buttons and break the veto, but for some reason, the government and the BUT faction took an ostrich position – they hid their heads in the sand. Now a bill that's not on your head is put into the hall and trying to predict what to vote on, yes! I think it would be a shame if the Supreme Council voted in favour of this bill. And ashamed of the faction of BUT, which did not vote in favour of overcoming the veto of the President by law, which would solve this problem once and for all for the village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u114	Katerina Vaschuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u115	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! If you remember, it's the faction of the Lithuanian Block that has raised the question that today they don't put on the stock market or pay for the loss of jobs to peasants who have land, regardless of size. It was more or less settled, but it's not fully settled. This bill, which is being passed, does not regulate it. I think that right, the bill that was passed earlier and its author, one of the authors was Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, who was solving the issue -- we got the veto. So today we can't include this law, we have to work out a law that's so strong that it gives people the opportunity to work and, at the same time, if they've lost their jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u116	Yes. Ludmila Leontievna Denis’s Minister of Labour and Social Policy. I request the government's position on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u117	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I would like to draw the attention of the honourable people's deputies that this is the first time that this bill has been introduced, that it has not been promised, that it has not been considered by the people's deputies, and that this law defines exactly the status of a citizen who owns such an area, whatever kind of activity it does in this area, and that it gives such citizens the status of unemployed. In this case, when he's doing an activity on his territory that's like farmers or agricultural cooperatives, then they're considered busy. And in the case that they own these land plots, but they don't do that kind of farming, they have the right, like all citizens who don't have a job and they search for it. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts about the inclusion in the agenda of Law 4568. I am asking for consideration of the inclusion in the agenda and consideration of the draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the employment of citizens who own land. [[Registration number 4568]] [[11:52:54]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Party of Regions -0, “Club of July Timoshenko” – 149, “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense” – 27, Communists - 0, “Club of Lithuania” – 18, non-fractional – 0. Bill, may I have your attention? Dear colleagues! Jaroslav Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues, the point was that we should have discussed the matter and discussed the direction in which it should be considered. What is it? It is simply impossible to discuss the matter. Therefore, I ask the committee to work out and to submit an appropriate document to regulate the resolution of this problem immediately before the conclusion of this session. It is desirable that he be in agreement with the government so that there is no veto. Dear colleagues, Bill 4568 has been rejected. We must now identify and put into order the daily draft of the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on responsibility for non-recurring bank deposits]] Restaurant number 4334. I'll bet you a vote to put it in the agenda. Please vote. [[11:54:26]] For 222 We didn't make it. I'll put the vote back on the issue of inclusion in the agenda of the bill. [[4334]] Please vote. [[11:54:58]] For 223 The bill was rejected. The factions, please. Region Party - 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 151, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense - 24, Communists - 27, Litvina Block - 20, non-fractional - 1. Dig in, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u119	Yuri Prokopchuk, Timoshenko Street. Ladies and gentlemen, right now, there's a line in this room, despite all the claims that you're being taken care of, your deposits, your deposits, and the banks operating in the legal field, it shows again. And I think we need to publish all of those lobbying today, especially commercial banks that take refinancing from the state, who get everything they can from the state and dump their citizens, who make suicides and stuff like that. So I would ask the factions not simply to publish in the newspapers and specifically every MP who cares so much about his citizens. That's disgusting! And so I thank all those who have supported and for those who have not supported it is a disgrace.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, Arzheviteen. What are we discussing, what hasn't happened? Microphone, please, Arzvetin. One at a time. I can't have all the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind and request that this bill be sent to our banking committee. Because the subject of regulating this field of activity is our committee. That's the first one. Secondly, honourable deputies, you should remember, if you want justice, let's set the criminal responsibility of those who don't return credit, where this deposit lies. And then we'll talk about back criminal liability for deposit. If you're fair, honest, let's put criminal responsibility on both sides for not returning the loan and criminal responsibility for not returning the deposit. This will be fair and just.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u122	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinski. Please, calm down, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u123	Dear colleagues! Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. You know, it's the bank lobby. It's been bothering everyone here. Once again, the banking lobby that works in parliament has already plagued everyone. The bill is perfectly fair. How is it possible for citizens not to give up or take responsibility for this? I want to listen to Arsenius Yatzenuk's point of view, if I may, give him a microphone, a word. To explain, too, from the point of view of banking practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u124	I want to tell Oleg Zarubinski, you'll be in charge and then you'll be passing on when you're sitting here. Let's work. Please. And I think Arseny Yatzenuk has the right and the opportunity to speak for himself. Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u125	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to remember how many appeals are coming today when people are talking or shouting or they're going and they're apologizing for the money that they're making, they're putting into banks, and today the owners of these banks have transferred these funds, they don't match their assets, they don't match anything else. Therefore, dear friends, we must foreknow criminal responsibility. And it's a question of listening. But I agree with my colleague Arjevetina, who said we should assume responsibility for the non-refundation of loans. This too must be a responsibility. And in many countries of the world there are debt prisons, and please there are no questions. But this must be asked, for it is a crime against the property rights of citizens. And this has nothing to do with it, the banking committee, this committee on law enforcement should be looking at this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts on the bill. I'm asking you to calm down. And you raised your hand, and you were given a word. Please, Paul Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u127	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, you know, I want to thank you. I liked your answer to your party. You gave a very good answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u128	I mean, there are Ukrainian national deputies in the session room. And behind the session hall, they're the Partymen. So please, without your humor, let's do it on the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u129	But basically. You took it from me, let's get out of here. Dear colleagues, you know the days before the election, there are a lot of populist projects in the hall, and they accuse each other of publishing in newspapers and so on and so forth. Why do I think the Party of Regions does not support this project? Because the coalition in Parliament confirms that it's practically on paper, and it's not actually on paper. That's the first one. And the orange powers have led the people of Ukraine, robbed them, robbed them, robbed them with their own weak politics in power, so the Party of Regions will soon come to power and order, and they will all answer -- those who have robbed the people today. And you will answer today, please, and keep order.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts on the bill. I'd like to ask the honourable national MPs to look at this document, which is a draft law that says that if a person has a deposit and the deposit date is over, and they don't return a deposit, then there should be an administrative penalty, or a criminal penalty. And it's obvious that we can't hide by saying that we're coming. They've already arrived. We just have to make decisions and protect people. So I'm voting for the return to the draft Act on the inclusion of registration number 4334 in the agenda of the bill. [[12:01:42]] For 221 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes. After the break, dear colleagues, we will listen to the Annual Report of the Human Rights Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the state of respect for and protection of human rights and freedoms in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. In accordance with the Ukrainian Law “On the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights” during the first quarter of each year, the Commissioner submits an annual report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the status of respect for and protection of human rights and freedoms and to citizens in Ukraine, government authorities, local governments, associations of citizens, businesses, institutions, organizations, irrespective of the form of property and their officials and officials who violated their actions or omissions of human and civil rights and freedoms, and on the shortcomings identified in the legislation relating to the protection of human and civil rights and freedoms. Therefore, in accordance with the Law “On the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights” and in accordance with article 85, part 17, of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to which the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine include hearing the annual report of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights on the state of respect for and protection of human and civil rights, we should listen to the report of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine on the human rights of the Carpathian Nina of Johnovna. Such regulations are proposed. For a statement on the Human Rights Commissioner’s report, give up to 30 minutes of questions and questions from national deputies and answer questions from national MPs — 15 minutes. After that adoption of the appropriate decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is also required for us before the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Is there no objection? What might be the objection? For what? 45 minutes to review the question. Dear colleagues, I invite you to address the report of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights of Karpachov Nina Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u132	Dear Head, distinguished national deputies, government officials and representatives of the diplomatic corps, the judicial branch of power and the media, dear fellow countrymen! On December 10, 2008, on the 60th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in this Hall, I presented a special report from the Commissioner: “The State of Ukraine’s compliance with international standards in the field of human rights and freedoms”. Today, your attention is presented in the Annual Report of the Commissioner on the Status of Respect for and Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms in Ukraine. The National Deputies of Ukraine have distributed its full text, based on a comprehensive study of the status of constitutional rights and freedoms in accordance with the Constitution and the law of Ukraine. The basis for such monitoring, as presented in this Annual Report, is, above all, a call to the Commissioner of our compatriots, as well as to foreigners, without citizenship. Since the beginning of the work of the Human Rights Commissioner as a body of constitutional parliamentary control, over 950,000 have been contacted. Each second reference refers to a violation of civil rights, particularly the burden of the court, the right to legal protection, the improper enforcement of judicial decisions and the conditions of detention. [[you can look at the screen]] Each third of the petitions concerns violations of the socio-economic rights of citizens, such as the rights to social protection, health care, medical care, the right to housing and land. More than 13 percent of petitions refer to violations of personal rights, including the use of torture. Every tenth address is a collective one with dozens and hundreds of signatures of our citizens. Yes, under the invitation of residents of the Bahchisarai district of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, 1,580 people signed their rights to land. From the town of Snowy Donetsk, for the closure of three schools, 530 schoolchildren and 620 parents signed their signatures, and 230 employees of Ukrainian and districtal allergological hospitals from Solotvina were asked to contribute to the rehabilitation of the underground wards of these medical institutions. [[Stabbing]] Sixty residents of the village of Zapletci, in the region of Johno-Frankow region, appealed to the Commissioner for Dissatisfaction in the authorities and local self - government in overcoming the consequences in 2008. On the basis of the results of the monitoring, it is necessary to note that there are signs of a state-wide crisis in the field of human rights and freedoms. In addition, the global financial and economic crisis has further exacerbated the situation and undermined all expectations of social justice. The inequality between the poor and the rich has increased dramatically, both in the middle of our country and on an international scale. The world has clearly divided into, so - called, golden billion rich countries and the rest of countries with over 5 billion people living outside of poverty. In this distribution, Ukraine found itself among the countries of peripheral capitalism. This is confirmed by the fact that in recent times, people have more often reported to the Commissioner about the reduction in their standard of living in conditions of systemic political and socio-economic crisis, the inability to solve life-saving problems, and also by bureaucratic attitudes of officials and officials. You can see now on the screen that the most complaints come from the actions and inaction of the courts, the authorities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the State Administrations and the local self-government. Respectable national MPs, the worst form of human rights violations, are poverty. As far as I am concerned, poverty is a brutal violation of human rights. And it makes it impossible to realize other human rights and freedoms. On the screen, you'll now see the dynamics of the huge gap between the growth of the total income of the entire population over the last 8 years, that is, the poor and rich together, and the invariance of the number of poor citizens of Ukraine. Experts say that in 2008, 27 percent of the country’s population was in poverty, especially the Institute of Demographics and Social Research. Among which about half are in extreme poverty. Poverty has increased in many families, in unemployed families, in the elderly, and in rural areas. And by applying the poverty criteria set by the World Bank for Western European countries, more than 70 percent of the population in Ukraine should be included in the poor category, and sociological research confirms this. In Ukraine, where there is a developed industry, agriculture, where there is a high level of population education, is primarily the root of the problem of poverty, the brutal violation of the rights of the majority of the population, members of Ukrainian society to access resources and to national wealth. This fully confirms the view of UN Secretary-General Guy Moon that we have seen the dependence on clear phenomena such as poverty, low levels of development and human discrimination. Despite the measures taken, the situation of overcoming poverty in Ukraine shows that the United Nations Millennium Development Goals for Ukraine, number one, have been set for the millennium, the halving of poverty by 2015 and a third of the poor, unfortunately, will not be implemented. In just one year, the number of employees has dropped by more than 710,000, and almost a million of our citizens are on the job force as unemployed. And a million 700,000 are forced to work part-time. For every job today, there are 9 unemployed people in Ukraine. And in such areas as Hmelnicka, Cherkaska, Ivano-Frankivska, there are 40 to 50 candidates for one job. Unfortunately, five million of the promised jobs were never created in Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! People really feel that their wages don't match the steep rise in consumer prices. According to recent data, the average salary per year increased by only 6 percent compared to the previous year, and consumer prices reached almost. increased by 15 percent. The price of bread, pasta, milk, fish, oil, sugar, and transportation increased by a third. [[please, this is on the screen]] The rent has risen by 35 percent, hot water and heating tariffs by 50 percent. And the talk about slowing down prices in recent months is that this slight slowdown is really the result of a sharp decline in the purchasing power of the population of Ukraine. This indicates a decrease in real wages, especially for the working population. At the same time, I can't help but notice that the debts of wages, as a government and not taking measures, unfortunately, have increased more than twice over the past year. On the screen, you're now seeing the growth of these debts. From 722 million last year to 1 billion 405 million in May of the current year. In recent years so - called land reform has taken place in the country, and in fact, the real battle for the redistribution of the principal wealth of the Ukrainian people has been waged. Unfortunately, these reforms have resulted, not in the development of the Ukrainian village, but in the destruction of its foundations. There have been changes in the target destination of agricultural land, the replacement of food production for humans by the cultivation of biofuels - rapsu - for machines. Already more than 11 million acres [11 million ha] of arable land, a third of the entire village, has been excluded from the sill, and migration from the village has increased. About 25 percent of rural settlements are classified as degrading. The extinction of the rural population is three times faster than it was in 1990. At the same time, monitoring of the Authorized One shows that the continuing brutal and massive violations of ownership of land by authorities and local self - government do not take place only in the countryside, but the looting of land is increasingly accompanied by injury and even death. In June 2006, the country suffered the tragic death of a 40-year-old single mother from the city of Alushta Natalija Kobeleva. [[Autonomous Republic of Crimea]] For this person and her underage child, the only source of existence is four hundred, I emphasize, four hundred lands in the business structure of Aluston were launched and used to the full capacity of the entire local government machine from the court and the prosecutor's office to the city council. During the three years of the Ombudsman’s struggle in the courts and prosecutors ’ offices, it was evident that when the judicial system and business grew, honor, conscience, justice, and law ceased to work. Imagine, the Ombudsman, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the State Department of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, and finally, when I understood it, the Ałutstin City Council gave the court irrefutable evidence of illegal capture by the people of 4 hundred lands by a business structure, and the Court of Justice of the Autonomous Republic of Chimachenko Crimes of Côte d'Ivoire say: “No, we will not return this land.” As a result of this land, elite apartments are built near the sea, and the elite complex “Europe” is sort of a football field for the children's sports club that this company Aluston 98 received under the name of a public organization. Look at the screen now. Earth 1 hectare, the most valuable land on the southern coast was set aside under the stadium, we see the prospect of a children’s stadium and a sacrifice for which a person’s life was paid. And it was only yesterday that the court finally made a fair decision in this case, which the City Council ruled and the land lease agreement of one hectare [1 ha] was not valid. In the near future, I hope that this land will be returned to those in whom it was taken, including the son of the fallen Natalia Kobelevay, who paid for her four hundredths of the earth with her own life. I'm drawing your attention, honourable deputies, to this example, because this is a case-by-case decision and it was first decided in Ukraine. The Supreme Economic and Sebastopol Courts of Appeal finally had the courage to stop the illegal purposeless use of the land by a commercial structure that is effectively directed by a judge of the Alustin City Court, who has two patrons in the Supreme Court of Ukraine. I spoke about this at the convention of judges in Ukraine. Honorable national MPs, at first, have faced the problems of freedom of their money. Commercial banks are violating the rights of citizens to receive, at the same time, the recalculated wages and pensions, which were particularly at the first stage, the use of deposits and, in a unilateral manner, the increase in both monetary and monetary credits. In the fall of last year, I addressed the issue properly to the President of Ukraine three times, including at a special personal meeting with the head of the National Bank. Unlike bankers, the country’s average citizens have not experienced the real results of the multibillion - dollar loans, the resources of the International Monetary Fund directed to Ukraine. In this report that I presented to you today, you will really find specific analysis and monitoring of these rights violations: for free medical care, for increasing appeals on patients' rights issues, and this is now almost tragic. Because I am constantly approached by our citizens about the fact that they have either lost a wife or a child because, unfortunately, doctors are working at the wrong level, as the situation requires. I am convinced that any such matter requires objective consideration, additional checks, the use of prosecutorial remedies, and real assistance to the victims. Ladies and gentlemen, on the other hand from this rostrum, I would like to address you on behalf of one million and three hundred thousand families in line for housing. If we solve the housing problem at this rate, most of our citizens simply do not have enough even human life. The Social Assignment Housing Act, adopted in 2006, has not yet been implemented. After all, no amount has been allocated to the construction of social housing for the most underprivileged so far. And a particular problem with housing. This is the protection of the housing rights of the residents of the hostel. Not once have I referred to the President, the Prime Minister, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on this matter. According to the Maintenance Fund, in Ukraine nearly 2,000 groupists were illegally included in statutory funds of enterprises and organizations with one and a half million people who were actually transformed into fortifications. We are obliged to help these people along with you. After all, most of them are veterans of labor, single mothers, families with young children, and disabled persons. Thus, for 8.7 years, the struggle for the restoration of the violated right to housing of 80 families has been under way at the “Lugansk batteries” plant, and three residents of the hostel have, unfortunately, already died. The dramatic situation is the rights of residents of the hostels in the cities of Kiev, Lviv, Dnipropetrovsk, Hersons, Lutsk, BARVARA, and dozens of other cities in Ukraine. This issue has not been resolved by the law that you, honourable deputies, have adopted to ensure the realization of the housing rights of the residents of the hostel. That was last year. What's the problem? The 14th article of this law states in this article that the owners of hostels may transfer them to municipal property but are not obliged to do so. And from this rostrum, I ask the people's deputies to decide, after all, this is a painful issue. People's Honourable Chosen Ones! A permanent social economic crisis, mass poverty generates mass migration flows both inside and outside the country. Five to seven million overseas, including seasonal migration. In view of this, for seven years in a row, I have been stressing the urgent need for the adoption of basics, the basic principles of Ukrainian State migration policy and the creation of a powerful state migration service as a civil state authority with special status. One of the most pressing issues that the Commissioner has recently faced is the protection of the right to life of Ukrainian sailors who are being captured by pirates. Only in the last 10 months have they been captured by Somali pirates over 60 Ukrainian sailors, the vessel “.”, “Faina”, “..”, “..”, “..”, “..”, “..” and others. It was only last night that Ukrainian sailors were finally released. ” The marathon, however, is unfortunately one of them – the father of three children died during the capture of the ship by pirates. Once again, I express my sympathy to the family of a dead sailor. And 27 Ukrainian sailors continue to be in pirate captivity not only in a 60-degree hell but under constant threat of their lives. People who work on ships through intermediate cruise structures actually find themselves defenseless in the event of piracy. Therefore, as early as the summer of 2008, during the battle for the rescue of the ship’s crew, “.” together with the National Deputy of Ukraine, Honorable Igor Sharov, we joined the President of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenk, in establishing a coordinating body of executive power to counter the threats of piracy. And it took another six months and a few more captures of Ukrainian tens of them, until finally it was created at the Cabinet of Ministers. In order to ensure the safety of sailors in the Gulf of Aden and other dangerous waters, coordinated actions, both shipowners and shippers, are needed primarily, but under the control of a State that is responsible for its citizens wherever they are. This was not done in the case of a ship called Faina, whose crew became hostages not only of pirates but also of special cargo on board. For the Ombudsman, people's lives are more important than any cargo. So the primary task was to avoid a force option. To this end, negotiations had to be held in Kenya at a higher level with the Prime Minister, the Chief of Parliament, the Minister of Defence, the Chief of General Staff, and the ambassadors in Somalia, the United States, Russia. I also want to express my sincere gratitude to the Ukrainian National Deputies: Mikoli Katerinchuku, Valery Konovaluku and, again, to the venerable Igor Sharov, who have been actively supporting the actions of the Commissioner for Human Rights all this time. [[Applause]] Moreover, it is impossible to overcome piracy without overcoming total poverty on the African continent, including in Somalia. My experience in saving Ukrainian ship crews shows that it is not possible to solve this problem by means of strong methods. Coordinated action by the entire international community is needed to address these global problems. And Ukraine, as a country that has nearly a hundred thousand sailors, has to initiate such actions and participate actively in them. Respectful national electors may not be as desperate in any matter as the inability to prove their right before a court of law. The existence of serious problems in the national judicial system is also confirmed by the European Court of Human Rights, which has already passed 500 decisions, in fact, according to claims against Ukraine. In almost 90 percent of cases, there has been a violation of article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights and fundamental freedoms with regard to the right to a fair trial. For nine years, nearly 45 million euros have been paid for the implementation of Eurosud’s decisions from the State Budget. That's right. And that's Ukrainian taxpayers' money. My conviction requires a comprehensive, systematic reform of the judicial system. The Constitution of Ukraine needs to be amended with regard to the election of judges by the people of Ukraine for a specific term. And to adopt the new Criminal Procedure Code, as well as the law on free legal aid, which was approved in the first reading of the Supreme Council. In addition, to adopt a new version of the law on lawyers, and to implement the Recommendations of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, to enact a law on mediation, that is, reconciliation, which regulates the judicial settlement of disputes and, in the end, to introduce juvenile courts in the first place to protect the rights of the child. Dear National Deputies! In Ukraine, only 35 percent of court decisions are made, which is a brutal violation of the human right to a fair trial. Even after the court’s decision, people who have been forced for years to ignore the corridors of the State executive service in the hope of its execution. The lack of funds in the budget is not perceived by the European Court of Human Rights, which has already ruled a number of decisions against Ukraine, in particular in Vojtenko v Ukraine, Koval and Pacura v Ukraine, and others. The Court noted that the lack of funds in the State could not justify failure to comply with the decisions of the court. People's Honourable Chosen Ones! Combating illicit methods of investigation, such as torture, is one of the priorities of the activities of the Authorized Human Rights Council. If in 2007 I received 1,428 appeals from torture, cruel, inhumane treatment, or punishment, this year, 1922, a third more. In general, law enforcement officials beat people to admit that they are guilty of increasing the crime detection rate, or simply bribe. In 70 cases. That's what happens in the service offices. Torture takes place, unfortunately, in all regions of Ukraine, as evidenced by the introduction of the Authorized, the information provided by prosecutors of areas, lawyers and individual courts. This is also confirmed by health - care institutions. During 2006, nearly 1,800 people were hospitalized for police beatings, 7 and 8 years old for two thousand. Regrettably, the abuse of humans takes very hard forms and leads to the death of the detainees. Yes, in 2008, police officers in the Shevchenkow Paradise administration of Kiev killed 32-year-old Timur Fedas, 52-year-old Roman Stassyuk, father of two children, in Sokal Lviv district, in the city of the Chernigow district, in three hours, the lawkeepers tortured to death a 39-year-old entrepreneur, Sergey Kunzewski, you can see it on the screen. [[It's a big deal.]] For almost two years, it took an authority to protect the rights of the family, which had been tortured to death by members of the Supernatural Police Department in Ivano-Frankishka, the father of three children, Peter Hudak. In April of this year, the court finally ruled that executioners were sentenced to actual sentences. Chief of Criminal Investigation up to the age of nine, and his subordinates, supported by an eight-year prison sentence. The above-mentioned decision by the District Court of Ivano-Frankiv Region can be seen as a real breakthrough in the protection of the rights of victims of torture. I believe that all judges of Ukraine should eventually change their attitude towards dealing with these socially dangerous crimes and approach them with decisions with all the severity of the law. As evidenced by the results of the systematic monitoring of human rights in places of disqualification by means of unwarranted visits, authorized officials and experts of the Secretariat are generally out of the picture, just to think about it for over two years. The police continue to keep prisoners in conditions that demean human dignity and that are by international standards that are considered to be a form of torture. I could call you Crimea today, and Sevastopol, and Volin, and Dnipropetrovsk, and Kirovograd. And the last check in the Kyiv region found that the Ministry of the Interior of Ukraine had not taken decisive steps to at least solve the main issue of access to the prison cell, daylight and fresh air. Even the staff depend on permission to open the apartment, since it can only be done from the outside, people cannot do it on their own. With the aim of overcoming such negative phenomena as torture, the President of Ukraine for the submission of a human rights authority, the signing and ratification of an optional UN protocol to a convention against torture was initiated, and Ukraine was one of the first. But unfortunately, so far the executive authorities have not created a national preventive torture prevention mechanism, but the first steps have already been taken by Ukraine in this direction. With the successive implementation of measures to humanize the penal policy, the state has seen a positive trend in reducing the number of convicted persons in places of deprivation -- this is also a positive one -- from 2000 to 77,000 people, or a third. But if you and I consider mortality, if we make a correlation, this is going to be a little bit lower. Today, more than 6,000 patients are being held in places where they are deprived of their will for active tuberculosis, and in recent years, 277 of them have, unfortunately, died. The report details freedom of speech in Ukraine. I think the MPs will read it with interest. There is an extremely objective monitoring. And the same is true of the rights of the child. I would like to say that in the near future you will be presented with a special report on the state of human rights in Ukraine. In addition, the monitoring of the equal rights and opportunities of women and men and the direct and indirect discrimination of women in Ukraine have been analysed in detail. In addition, according to human rights law, the Ombudsman is the subject of civilian control over the military organization and the State’s law enforcement agencies, so a separate chapter in all practical reports is assigned to this particular problem. But the problem is very acute, it's a problem of increasing the number of soldiers killed as a result of suicide. Only this morning, when we included news from our television show, did we learn that another sad message came from the Plains. Dear National Deputies, during the existence of the institution of the Authorized Authority, I have received some 3,000 requests and appeals from national defenders, who are mostly concerned with the protection of human rights. Every such appeal by the people's defenders opens up the conduct and makes a joint effort with you to restore the rights that have been violated. [[Now you see it on the screen]] And to the end. On the eve of the Constitution of Ukraine, most of the articles on human rights and freedoms, I would like to welcome from this rostrum the people's advocates, all present, all compatriots, all with a national holiday. Of course, a real holiday is not without a gift. Therefore, allow me to introduce to you the first written Constitution of Ukraine from the National Archives of Sweden, the Constitution of the Gehtman Philip Orlik “On the Rights and Freedoms of the Army of Zaporezki 1710.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u133	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u134	The Constitution of Philip Orlik, I emphasized this in the first Annual Report of the Commissioner for Human Rights, is a document of great importance for understanding the origins of Ukrainian democracy. Now in these moments, the President of Ukraine, speaking in Kharkiv, has also turned to the university to know his history, to be proud. I mentioned in my first report that this is the world's first written democratic constitution, which was created, I'm paying attention to you 65 years earlier than the American Constitution, and 80 years earlier to the French Declaration of Human and Civil Rights. You'll still read in the first report, but I want to say that the Constitution reflects many democratic principles that only you and I are beginning to really go back to. It reflects the requirements of the Cossacks, which were applied to all the hetmans, and these requirements were mainly related to the limitations of the hetman's competence, the organization of authority by the principle of the distribution of it to the legislative, executive and judicial system, the choice of all government officials and the establishment of human rights and freedoms. And separately, taxes were limited, the unbreakable right to protect the rights of women Cossacks, widows, their wives, orphans, and the hetman was obliged to ensure the observance of unbreakable civil liberties. This gift to the Supreme Council of Ukraine can be seen directly at an exhibition presented today from human rights and placed on the third floor of the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the Human Rights Commissioner. It's a recording. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. Mikhail Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u136	Dear Nina Ivanovna, we thank you for your meaningful and objective report. The facts you gave are terrifying. We are grateful to the ambassadors and diplomats of the world who are present today for your reports, which you will not say about the Ukrainian government. Look, there's no government official here who isn't interested in the situation of rights, the rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens. But my question concerns migrant workers. You know, we have a problem now with the retirement of migrant workers who can't make a pension in Ukraine because it takes 25 years for men and 20 years for women and they can't make a pension right now in this European country or in Russia or in other countries of the world according to the rules of the internal legislation of these countries. As you see, with the help of the diplomatic corps, we still have a solid solution to the problem of paying the Ukrainian Pension Fund for part of our work in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u137	I see. I would like to point out that the government supports today's presentation of the report, and I've been informed about it, but there's a government meeting going on. All government officials are now present there, at least members of the Cabinet of Ministers, to make this matter valid. That's the first one. Secondly, you're absolutely right, Mr. Mikhailo, and you've asked questions about the retirement of our migrant workers. Five to seven seven million -- I've noted this figure in a special report commissioned by human rights. And when we meet them, the first painful question is exactly how do we go home if the years that we've worked abroad are not included in our pension insurance? I think we will take the opportunity today to have representatives of the diplomatic corps, ambassadors, consuls, particularly a number of countries in Ukraine, in order to finally move this issue forward. Most countries in the European community include pensions in other European countries, and this is normal democratic practice. Because our citizens are Ukrainians who are the most enlightened, who are really.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u138	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u139	Industrious, they have the same right today to earn this pension and then to return home and continue to support themselves and their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u140	Vladimir Karpuk passes the right to the question to Jaroslav Kendzior, please, the microphone Jaroslav Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u141	Jaroslav Kenzior, “For Ukraine” MP. Dear Nina Ivanovna! You know very well the criminal case, the very loud criminal case in Lviv, these are lies for the head of the Schuvar market, Roman Fedisin. As a result of the pretrial investigation, no evidence of Vladimir Panasenko’s involvement in the organization of this attack and this explosion was found. But as a result of all this, Vladimir Panasenko is sentenced to life imprisonment. And when I talk to the employees of the Lviv Public Prosecutor's Office, those who know the case claim that the buyer of the Fedisin assassination is Fedisin himself, but what you said is that the court branch and the business are connected, and I imagine how many sows Fedisin to the judges to obtain such a court decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u142	Deputies of the Deputies! Dear Mr. Jaroslav! I want to say that I have indeed opened the way for the wife and daughter of this man, Vladimir Panasenko, to meet with him personally my representative has visited this person directly and in a detention facility in Lviv. He is now in the Vinick prison. I can say that even the first approach, the study of this extremely loud, complicated case gives me reason today to say that there is no justification in the judgment of the court for citing the condemned to eternal imprisonment. I want to tell you that in Ukraine today the number of people sentenced to eternal deprivation of liberty is a thousand and a half. Of them, the only person who has been convicted of murder and recklessness, this incident has occurred, as it has not been proved to me, has been sentenced to life imprisonment. As far as I'm concerned, I see signs here.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u143	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u144	That a term of punishment such as life imprisonment today can be used as a means of compiling accounts between different business structures would be a disgrace. Therefore, the question of the return to the death penalty in general from the standpoint of European values and what we have declared is simply impossible. I'm keeping this thing under personal control, and I think we're going back in this room to make some changes in this case.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u145	Victor Terrence, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u146	Dear Nino Ivanovno, in Kharkiv during his visit to Viktor Yanukovič's “FED” factory, journalist Constantine Sokil suddenly died, and in the media there was this report about a journalist when he was ill, the protection of Janukovitch did not miss the doctors of the ambulance. You stand, Nina Ivanovna, in the defense of human rights, including the right to life, and therefore my question to you seems to me to be quite correct. What were your actions to establish the truth, under which circumstances a journalist was killed? Was your representative in Kharkiv at the factory, or was he seeing his family, the doctors, the eyewitnesses, or was there any help given to the family of the deceased? And finally, will this tragedy cause your institution to take any concrete steps, to do some kind of mechanism, so that it doesn't happen again in the future, because a presidential campaign has not yet begun, even though the leader of the Party of Regions is actively conducting it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u147	Thank you for asking. I can tell you that the election campaign in Ukraine began long ago. And secondly, when one of the candidates, Victor Fedorovich Yanukovic in Kharkiv, was killed, I can first express my sympathy to the family of the person who died. And second of all, I'm going to say that today I'm going to consider your statement to be a parliamentary request for more careful attention in this situation, whether there's any reason to say that there's a person guilty or death suddenly and there's no proper medical care. Believe me, if death - related cases occur, and the chief MPs go to the Ombudsman, each of them will open up to me, and I take the matter for personal control. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u148	Volodymyr Bondarenko faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u149	Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u150	Vladimir Yavorovski microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u151	Dear Mrs. Nina! First. Thank you so much for Philip Orlik and for the Constitution. I have tried for many years to prove this uniqueness of this Constitution publicly. The other one. I want to point out that although you have been chosen by the efforts of one political segment that is present in Parliament right now, but you are very conveniently away from everyone politically, it's very positive for the Ombudsman. A specific question. One of the most painful topics in Ukraine is people who have stayed in hostels. We passed the law on the right to privatize them, but let's say in my constituency, it's Kirovgrad, it's Kirovgrad, it's in Alexandria, all over Ukraine, it's hundreds of thousands of unfortunate people that officials today are resisting in order for them to stay in these 5 to 10-meter-long rooms close to be privatized. What can you do to help me as the national MP who does this?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u152	Thank you for asking! First of all, in the Swedish archive, I was able to find, as a lawyer, that the written text in Latin by Philip Orlik was self-made, and I was able to mention even the criminalist, for which I was grateful to the experts in the Swedish National Archive. I was given several documents of Philip Orlik himself, and I could compare them. This is the first time. It's different. It's about a painful question. Now, in my speech, I was just pointing out to you that the changes that you've taken on my application and the initiatives you've taken in the relevant Law on Hostages should be another change, that the dormitories should be transferred to the communal property fund, and then you can privatize them with those rooms at least a little so that you don't stay by the sky. So I ask you to go back to the amendment of this Law to article 13, make this little change and believe me, you will improve the lives of a million and three hundred thousand of our disadvantaged citizens who live in hostels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u153	Andrew Schlell, Timoshenko's Yulia Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u154	Thank you. Dear Nina Ivanovna, I, of course, also enjoyed listening to your report. I believe that it was as extensive as possible, and you have touched upon those problems that now have the will and temporary deprivation of liberty, which are meant by those who are in detention. And I'd like to use the example of the Kiev Insulator. Nevertheless, I think you've been there many times and you know the terrible conditions in which innocent people are held there, that is, the guilt of these people is not brought before the courts, so at any time they may be found innocent in the cases where they are being accused. So, I think that maybe this whole institution would have to be created here, we have to keep people, in good condition, whose rights are denied at least by what they are there, but I don't want to call them, not by parliamentary terms, but by non-human conditions. What would you say about that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u155	Thank you, Mr. Andrey, for that question. I know and I have been when you had to be on absolutely groundless grounds to be in one of the investigative isolation cells, which, unfortunately, is still in existence before the Council of Europe in 2003. [[Insulators, by the way, at the time of the Ukrainian Security Service]] We talked about the fact that in some countries in Europe secret prisons were found, but in Ukraine too, as I learned, when a former isolationist visited, he found that he was operating today, unfortunately too. And because of the fact that the BSS is concerned, first of all, I want to testify that the government has justly cancelled the order of the Head of the Security Service of the Honourable Mr. Vladimir Nadvejchenko to restore the work of this isolation by creating a temporary holding isolation facility on his basis. Under the Law on previous imprisonment, these isolates may be located.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u156	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u157	Only in the structure of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. It's standard. So today, the President has filed a motion with the Constitutional Court to annul the government's order to revoke the order. I spoke in support of the government's actions so that this isolation will not be restored. As far as SZO is concerned at Lukyanivka, Mr. Koštinec Vasil Vasilovich is present, he knows that we are constantly controlling the conditions there, but the problem is that courts today abuse the right to arrest. A third of the people are not supposed to be in detention facilities in the Ministry of Internal Affairs system or in the Lukyanjica detention facility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u158	Thank you. National MP Tedeyev is transferring the right to ask Lukyanov, please, a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u159	I wanted to ask you a question about the incident in the Kirovograd region when our fellow national deputy from the "Julia Tymoshenko Block" along with the district prosecutor and the head of the police killed a man on a hunting spree. They were chasing -- they were telling the locals -- they were chasing this man, they hit him with a car, they broke his legs, they shot her, they broke his ribs, they broke his key. A man was brought in without clothing for the investigation. This suggests that the following actions took place biasedly, concealing the actual evidence of the murder. I have a request for you to take over the protection of the deceased, constitutional rights in this state. Ask the President to get him involved in the security investigation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u160	Please finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u161	To investigate this incident, the Security Service and, indeed, to call upon the responsibility of the high-owners who in this situation had to protect the rights of the citizen, not to kill him and.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u162	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u163	Dear National Deputy, Mr. Vladislav, I would like to say that yesterday at 3:40 yesterday during a conversation with the Chief Hospital Doctor Stoyanov Sergey at 2 p.m. the body of the deceased was handed over to relatives in her mother's residence in the village of Prussia. [[I've opened up, by the way, a lead on this case.]] For my part, as in the situation with the photographer who died in Kharkiv, I would like to express my sympathy to this family. I can say, on my part, that I turned to myself, given that there is now a resonant assessment around this matter, and I want to remain impartial, and I want to look objectively at the causes of this person's death. So I personally addressed the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Prosecutor of the Kirovograd region and the Chief of Internal Affairs in the Kirovograd area of Mr. Blueyuk to ensure that the Ombudsman is provided operationally with all the data relating to this person's death. But I think it's basically Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u164	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u165	Because Parliament has the right to create to avoid any charges, but to find out only the truth, in this case to create a special commission of inquiry and to deal with this case, and objectively in terms of parliamentary control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u166	Thank you. Thank you, Nina Ivanovna. Time's up. Report delivered. The answer is given. As a result of listening to the annual report of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine, we need to adopt the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This project is prepared. Oleg Zarubinski, please. Head of the committee. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u167	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! In principle, there is actually a draft decision based on the authorship and authorship of my colleague Pauline. The only thing I can say is that at the committee meeting today we should have considered the draft of this decree, because it is, as a result of this report. But I can now say that the draft decrees show the following. The annual report on the status of respect for and protection of human rights and freedoms in Ukraine is presented by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Human Rights of Carpache Nina Ivanovna. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to consider the proposals made by the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine on human rights to improve legislation. Ukraine’s respect for and protection of human rights and freedoms And secondly, recommend to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Henprocuratorate, other authorities of the State, the local self-government authorities to consider the conclusions and recommendations made by the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine aimed at improving the status of human rights and freedoms in Ukraine. And the third. As is traditionally done, and this is consistent with the current legislation and procedure, to publish in the newspaper The Voice of Ukraine the text of the statement by the Authorised Supreme Council of Ukraine on human rights when presenting the annual report. I want to say again, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that this is a draft decision. The committee was due to consider it today, but in principle, I have already read it. And we have a draft committee decision to uphold this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u168	Thank you. Dear colleagues, one minute, we're not discussing anything. That's my offer. Because we are acting with you in accordance with article 18 of the Law “On the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights”. Article 18 states that the annual or special report of the Authorized Human Rights Commissioner is subject to the ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Keep going. It states that annual and special reports, along with the adopted decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are published in official editions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's why there's this proposal right now. Take the document as a basis, if you have any thought, in writing to the committee and commissioning the committee for the next plenary week, so that we can accept it in the final version. Because now the motions from the voice will destroy the draft document itself. Is there no objection? So, dear colleagues, I propose to adopt a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the annual report of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine on the state of respect for and protection of human rights and freedoms in Ukraine. Registration number 4614. Please vote on the basis. [[13:26:09]] For 204 Dear colleagues, not voting in favour of this decree is tantamount to standing up to stop the sun from rising. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is under an obligation to take an appropriate decision. The project is based. You don't want to take it, please don't. I'm voting for a return to the draft ruling. [[Registration number 4614]] What is this principle? I don't understand. [[13:26:53]] For 227 We're back on the draft ruling. I'm betting on a vote on adoption on the basis of a draft decision. [[Registration number 4614]] Based on the base. [[13:27:20]] For 237 Considered the basis. Please, Your Honor, your recommendations, comments and suggestions, please submit to the committee. The factions? Please. Region Party – 154, “Block of Timoshenko” – 0, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 35, Communists – 27, “Block of Lithuania” – 20, non-fractional – 1. Please calm down, your esteemed colleagues, with your grades. Dear colleagues, we need to continue our consideration of the issues, but to do so, we need to put them into the agenda. Please. For reasons of what? For reasons of what? Please sign up, five minutes of motive. I'd like the name of the national MPs on the board to be taken out. Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u169	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”, a parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” Our group supported the Annual Report of the Commissioner for Human Rights, because it is actually objective, divisive, there are many materials for meditation, and I would simply ask Nina Ivanovna as an experienced lawyer and, in general, we have a very difficult situation in the country where we fail to implement judicial decisions. From the monitoring that the Commissioner submitted annually only under the jurisdiction of the general courts, execution is subject to between 5.5 million and 6 million decisions, and this is constantly trending towards growth. However, a third of these decisions are not being implemented. There is no need to collect certain amounts or costs from the budget, but basic failures by central executives, ministries, and local authorities. That's why we have to do something about it. We will never give order when there are no court decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u170	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko Yuli Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u171	Well, the only phrase that wasn't discussed on the committee was, and that's why we couldn't vote for it. Please give it to Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u172	Vladimir Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u173	Vladimir Yavorowski. Volodymyr Mikhailovich and his distinguished colleagues! I want you to understand. We absolutely don't deny, we've done a colossal job, we have a deep respect for it, but it's about the fact that the actual draft decision, as we understand it, was not discussed on the committee. Second of all, all assignments are with the Cabinet of Ministers. I'm sorry, but the left hand side of these questions is part of the President's knowledge. Another left-hand piece belongs in. Let's say before the same decision of the courts. And we're not avoiding ourselves, either, because we're here, so we're sitting. Legislation. It's about the dorms. Karpachov told us that these are our tasks. Because, I say again, let's say that on the committee all the additions we need, because we've taken the basis and then we're going to vote on that. That's the main reason why, let's say, the Yuli Block Timoshenko didn't give all the votes for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u174	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u175	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Dear Nina Ivanovna! You know, I'd like to take a practical approach to this question. We've actually fulfilled the regulatory standard today. We were to take note of this report. I'd like to focus your attention on that. As head of the relevant committee, I want to promise and guarantee that at the committee meeting all the proposals, all the comments that will be made by the national deputies as the subject of the legislative initiative will be considered very carefully, very carefully. [[By the way, it's not only MPs who can do it, it's other legislators who can do it.]] Now we've actually done, if you want to, in a sense, the technological norm, so I don't think we need to take this situation down, we need to do what we have to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u176	Anatoly Matvienko. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u177	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The report cited the horrendous violations of the rights of war veterans to State guarantees of social protection. In particular, I want to draw attention to the standard of the Constitution that I've proposed here in this room, that's an addition. This is article 49 of the Constitution, which cannot shorten the existing network of medical institutions in the state. Military hospitals were destroyed in Cremenchuca, Balta, Pervomayski, Sambora, Bilgorod-Dniestrowski, Delatina, Kovela, were destroyed in Slaut re-profiled, the hospital also destroyed in the Pervomayan Mikolai district. This is a brutal violation of the Constitution. So I'd like to include it and write it down: go to the President, to the Attorney General for a criminal offence to reinstate these medical facilities immediately. They are.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u178	Valerius Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u179	Valerius Kamchatny, Timoshenko Street, Kharkiv Region. I'd like to remind the honorary colleague of the neighboring faction that we're national deputies, not technology. And no technological decisions here in this room have ever been made, taken, or taken. There is a procedure, there is a rule, so we must act exclusively under the Rules. And today we had no right to take a decision that did not go through the proper procedure. That's the first one. And second of all, we're being asked by the voice to get to know or something. Nowhere is it written in the article referred to by our esteemed speaker as to what should be in the text of the decree. And I would personally like to see in the text of the decree, the draft decree and the evaluation of the work of the Authorized, and the partying, and so forth, party views. That is why I do not believe that Parliament today had the right to adopt that decision. It has no right to be signed by you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, because it is accepted outside our parliamentary rules of the game. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. I can advise my colleagues: to demonstrate their principle when decisions in the Supreme Council continue without any discussion at all. That's the first one. The other one. I would like to say that when the matter is considered in accordance with the Rules, the question ends with a decision. In view of the fact that the committee had prepared the draft decision but had not yet discussed it, it was suggested that it should be accepted as a basis. And I'd like to ask you not to move the arrows where they don't go today. Now there's one more thing. Read the Authorized Law, and it states that the Supreme Council takes a decision, first, to know the report, and secondly, it determines the need for publication and regulation, and the annual report that has been made. Everything else is your proposals that will be taken into account in the second reading. I very much would not want the position of Human Rights Commissioner to become a different political coin. We have all the institutions politicized, starting with the judicial system of power, ending with the key structures. And let's get out of what we need to make decisions. There's nothing to worry about. Question completed. I thank the Supreme Council for Human Rights of Ukraine, Carpachio Nina Ivanovna, for the report and the materials that were provided to the National Deputies. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, we continue our work. We need to put a number of bills into the agenda. I'd like to take a close look at including questions, discuss them, and then determine what decisions we're going to make. There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amendments to certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the characteristics of the financial recovery of banks. [[Registration number 4630]] It's a government project. About the inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[13:36:10]] For 203 We didn't make it? Return to consideration of inclusion in the agenda, return. [[13:36:35]] For 203 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Please, Oleg Lazko, with motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u181	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Notice which bill we did not include in the agenda. These are additional measures for the financial recovery of banks. But we voted to you today, unfortunately, our opposition colleagues did not vote in favour of a law that would allow for the responsibility of those who do not return. There is now no vote in favour of the inclusion and consideration of a bill that financially cures banks. I mean, what are they after? Millions of people - bank investors want to see banks reliable and stable. The government is proposing legislation that deals with these issues. We don't vote for them. Why? Wasn't it because they had already brought several banks into the pen, such as “Ukrgazbank”, “Nadra” Bank, “Rodovod”. The government now has billions of dollars to throw in to pay the investors back, so let's give another two or three tens, or three hundred banks to finally figure out what people are behind the banks.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u182	Please, 10 seconds. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u183	Therefore, in view of the situation, respectable Volodymyr Mikhailovich, since there are no cards for many deputies. I propose, after lunch, after a break, to return to this question and vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, no break?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u184	Thank you. Thank you. Mikhailo Chechetov. We can't break the question, I see. We need to figure out, just mobilize.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u185	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, little that we voted yesterday, will come back, not we, the Party of the Regions, did not vote, a disgraceful Law on the Budget Code, where it is given the right to manage the budget manually by the Cabinet of Ministers, how to manage the budget with its own money. That's how we want to extend the law today, which will allow Cabina to run all the banks by hand, yes. Would it not be bold to transfer the entire banking system to the Cabinet of Ministers before the elections, to transfer the entire country's budget, to put one person on an election campaign? I don't think that's what's going to happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u186	Arjewitin, then from the Cabinet of Ministers, we'll listen to the argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u187	Ladies and gentlemen, let's also speak honestly. This bill was prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers, together with the National Bank for one purpose, to enable the State to quickly enter the statutory capital of the banks. This is a precedent that we have faced for the first time in history during this crisis. We have summer on our nose, if we don't accept this bill, those banks that are defined by the state in the recapitalisation process, they won't pass. So this rule is designed just to simplify the state's entry into commercial banks. There's no politics here. Let's support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u188	Igor Ivanovich. Well, one minute. Igor Ivanovich Umanski, please explain the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u189	Thank you. Unfortunately, the honourable national deputies are not in the Mikola Janovića Azarova Hall; for the second hour, we arranged a special meeting with him on the expedited procedure of the Committee on Banking and Banking, which is part of the bill. In fact, a very important document, it's not important to the government, it's important to the banking system. And our request was procedural: now, in the first reading, to accept as a result of the committee's consideration under the chairmanship of Mikola Janović, the revised text will be put to the final session. All of these questions, all of these warnings that can be expressed there, we're going to burn down on the committee and we're going to propose a comprehensive solution to the issue. Please support a very important law, not for the government, not for the banking system, for the investors we all have to protect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u190	Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u191	Thank you, Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Everything about banks, no doubt very important laws, but the great regret in this session hall goes to lobbying banks, goes only one way: how to strengthen banks and take everything away from people you can't take anymore. When it was suggested that today, when it was proposed that banks that violated the laws should be punished for failing to pay in the due date of the end of deposits, be balanced. The session hall, unfortunately too large, did not support it. This is one moment and another. Dear colleagues! Look, please look at this law, which the prime minister proposes, says they care about banks there, but I'd like to ask him if he could hear me, not Javorowski, what's his attitude toward banks.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u192	I'm asking you, Vladimir Aleksandrovich, distinguished colleagues, but we want to make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u193	I'm addressing you, Mr. First Deputy, what's the attitude.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u194	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u195	What relation to this law, and more to banks, has to do with a single article that makes it virtually impossible in our country, read about the employees of the Ministry of Finance, which will deal with banks, give them close protection, double or triple their wages, put them on special services, and so on and so forth. What's with the finance department and the special merit that they're going to be working with the banks? Then every bank will make such a demand that I have difficult working conditions that we will also be able to do so. We have already voted tens of times, Vladimir Mikhailovich, not passed, let them have their votes, then we will consider. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u196	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u197	Dear Adam Ivanovich! First of all, and my proposal was, in the first reading, to support. In the second reading, we're going to work on all of these issues, and you're going to have your comments on the committee, and we're going to put them all on second reading. There are no financial additional preferences for the Ministry of Finance co-workers. Yes, there's a question of protection, but believe me, now with these banks to the coworkers of the Ministry of Finance, you can imagine how many creditors there are of these banks that have invested money. There is now going on, including measures of personal intimidation of employees, me personally, of the people we are delegating to these banks. And certainly, the people that the state is providing these functions, we can't help but protect them. Unfortunately, this is now happening, including gangs, including racketeering attacks, including banal intimidation. I'm sorry, but you can't protect the employees of the Ministry of Finance physically, I emphasize there are no financial issues, we don't have the right.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u198	Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u199	In addition, there is another very important question, and we continue with the rate by percentage and by deposit. Since January 1st, we've got a preference for people to tax dividends. We suggest that it be continued for another five years. And the question of procedures, if we don't simplify them, they've been written for a quiet time, now another situation, we have to react quickly and quickly, first of all, the National Bank. This law is more necessary to them even than it is to the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, we have found out all aspects of the problem. That's the proposal, I would very much like to support it, so let's take a look at the issue so that we don't interrupt, put it in the order of the day, but practical consideration of the outcome of the committee's decision. And I think we're going to get out of this regular college. So I'm going to ask you to vote back on the issue of inclusion in the agenda. If you support it, we'll put in the agenda and we'll give it to the committee to make a decision, and then, with the committee's decision taken, we'll determine the position of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I think it's a normal approach, please. I'm voting for a return to the question of incorporating the draft law into the agenda. [[Registration number 4630]] Please vote. [[13:45:32]] For 224 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, now draft Ukrainian Housing Codex. We've had it for a long time, let's do it, then we have to put it to the vote on the transfer, just like that question. So the request would be to take it and put it into the agenda and then return to the first reading and let it work. I told the committees tomorrow, that was the offer. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u201	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! It would be perfectly logical what you would suggest if there was a single bill, and there were two bills and one that we should take as a basis. And given that there are unconstitutional moments, it would be logical to move this issue to the next day, where specialists work, they agree on all these points and come to a common solution. Otherwise, we are now a very important and necessary law for our State!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u202	Calm down, dear fellows! Well. Oleg Lazko, please, we're about to be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u203	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Just as you saw on the board, 224 votes, our three seats didn't vote. This is Deputy Biruk, Deputy Kamchatny, Calchenko, who is sitting and unable to vote, Deputy Marouschenko. So there's an offer to go back to voting and adopt this law, more precisely to put it into the agenda. This is about the millions of Ukrainians holding money in these banks! Come on, Your Honor! Mikhail Vasilovich! People need help, not harm! And you help with your words, and you don't want to do it when you pay the investors back!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u204	Mikhailo Chechetov. Dear colleagues! Please, it worked, it didn't work! Whoever pressed it worked! Don't tell me stories, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u205	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! I propose a compromise solution. Indeed, a legislative solution must be found. But if the Government is unable to prepare a professional document that even a majority cannot support, ten votes have been put to the vote! Stop fooling around the hall! Tomorrow we will introduce Nikolai Janović Azarov, Minister of the opposition Government of Economy Irina Akimov, to introduce a bill that will solve all these problems that are being raised and supported by the Chamber, yes. But a professional work document, yeah. And stop making fun of me in front of the hall. Vladimir Mihajlovich, if you want to disrupt the meeting, let's listen to Mr. Lášk and the session will stop, we're going to break the session now, yes. No, it's a constructive decision, we'll make and you'll vote and everything will be fine, yeah. Don't worry!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u206	Mikhail, I'm asking you, well, calm down, your last name hasn't been called. Dear colleagues, once again, my dear colleagues, dear Mikhail Vasilovich, no one will tear anything apart, we have an agreement with you, and we have all heard that there will be a committee meeting at 2 p.m., the committee will consider, then we will return to the subject. What's wrong with you? What else isn't working out? The committee will consider, we'll come back, and saying that something didn't work, your honor, it worked. So let's do this, this question we've put away 4630, this is an important problem, the committee will consider, and we'll go back to the discussion with the government. With regard to the draft Housing Codex. That would be the offer. I want to, listen, my fellow dignitaries, and the request was, if we didn't burn it, we put the two bills into the agenda and immediately sent them out for re-reading, and the consequence was that the review in the re-first would then be one of them adopted and, I think, it would be a logical question. Is that what I'm saying? But can I put it on the agenda? Alexander Sergiyovich, you've made a proposal, and I propose that we now include this bill, because they are included in the order of the day by one vote, because there is a basic and alternative one, i.e. in the order of registration. Then to vote for the re-reading of the first reading, when it's ready for the re-reading of the first reading, one of them will be accepted as a result of the discussion, and then we'll get out of the colossal. I'm ready, but right now I need the Supreme Council to move it. But there can't be voices in the session room in the process, you know what this is about. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u207	Dear colleagues, I think it's a perfectly logical proposal, a logical proposal. But, Vladimir Mihajlovich, we sometimes resigned and decided to recommend that the Committee compile and withdraw a general bill. If we could now go to that exception to recommend that the Committee withdraw with a consolidated bill, I am more than sure that we would get a good law and get a positive vote on that law. Please consider this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u208	Dear colleagues, if we're going to give the commission to work with the committee, we obviously just need to agree with the Supreme Council and everything, and go out on one, with one document. Dear colleagues, then, if I follow the Rules, I must now put to the vote on inclusion. When we include, we'll consider the consequences of the consideration -- then we can give both the commission of the committee, or we can approve one of them, but because of the political differences, we can simply not make any decisions. Well, please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u209	Oleg Laszko “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. The bill of the Rybak Housing Code and the bill of government is a document that is essential for consideration in this room. Just like the previous Bill 4630 on Banks Financial Recovery. Therefore, the honorable Volodymyr Mikhailovich is a compromise proposal that can unite the hall. Let's now vote for the inclusion of the package of both the two bills and the 4630, and the 2307, and the 2307-1. And so let's put it into consideration, and then just like you suggested. Go to the committee and get 400 votes for that decision. Thank you. Hold on!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u210	Dear colleagues, this will be a violation of the Rules, but I can do this. To place, please note, on the vote, a proposal that the Supreme Council, by withdrawing from the Rules of Procedure, has accepted. Well, you clap in the palm of your hand, you listen first. She withdrew from the Rules, decided to include two bills in the agenda, two bills. [[Two, because that's where the alternative goes.]] And then we, if the Supreme Council supports it, we're waiting for Bill 4630 to decide the committee when it supports it, and this bill, if we include it, we're voting for the first time again, as the committee proposes, and the committee comes up with one project. It's a normal offer if you support it. Will you support me? Can we put it to a vote or not? Well, they don't support it, so. All right, I'll put in my esteemed colleagues, in accordance with article 28 of the Rules, this proposal for a vote. Please vote. In accordance with Article 28 of the Rules, a signal vote shall be taken. [[13:54:14]] For 227 The signal vote shows that there is a desire. Now I'm putting to the vote the proposal to consider the question, the proposal to consider the inclusion in the agenda of Bills 4630, 2307, 2307-1. Please vote. [[13:54:53]] For 229 And now I'm voting for the inclusion of Bills in the agenda 4630, 2307, 2307-1. [[13:55:20]] For 229 They've put it in the order of the day. Now Bill 4630 we will return to his consideration of the outcome of the committee's decision. With regard to the draft Ukrainian Housing Code, we continue our morning session for 15 minutes. Please, let's take a look at this bill. We've put it into the agenda. Pop Pops Alexander. Is there Alexander Popov?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u211	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! On June 30, 1983, the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic’s Housing Code had been adopted and had been in operation until that time. Of course, in 26 years many changes have taken place in housing policy in Ukraine, including today more than 90 percent of the population of Ukraine is privatized. And the law remains old. So, of course, both housing companies and apartment owners and a lot of other people, the Ukrainians are looking forward to a new edition that we can't accept in a new version for 10 years. As for the project itself, the essence of the project is that it prescribes the necessary legal field for citizens of Ukraine to exercise the constitutional right to housing and has established State control and control over the granting, use and maintenance of housing. It provides for maintenance fees and housing services, responsibility for violations of housing legislation, and the resolution of housing disputes. The conditions set out for the acquisition of private housing, the use of housing, reconstruction and maintenance of housing, privatization and reprivatization of housing. Conditions are being created for involving large numbers of people to maintain and manage the housing fund. The Housing Code, if adopted, will also speed up the introduction of competition in the area of housing management. There is also the possibility of moving into the field of employment and of providing services to the housing fund to contractual relationships, which will significantly improve the quality of consumer rights. Dear colleagues, we have considered this bill with the participation of experts from the Council of Europe. And I want to say that we've got comments that we think the project authors might be able to take into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u212	the opportunity to finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u213	So our proposal is to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u214	Lototic Oreste Bogdanovich, please first Deputy Minister for Housing and Utilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u215	Ladies and gentlemen, you have a proposal for a government draft of the Ukrainian Housing Code. I would like to point out immediately that the conceptual and the previous, which is prepared by the deputies, and prepared by the government conceptually, are hardly different. But the government is a little bit larger than the size and standards that are added to it. In particular, there is a 19 - article increase in the government bill. In particular, there is a separate article on the creation, the activities of residential cooperatives. In Ukraine today, 4.5 thousand construction cooperatives, whose activities today are regulated only by separate government decrees. In addition, a chapter on the development of the Housing Code and the provision of social housing for citizens is included. In addition, rules have been laid down on the number of citizens in need of social housing, the identification of housing belonging to the Social Housing Fund, and the order of creation, and the provision of housing. In addition, it is stipulated how the contributions to the construction of the buildings and their size will be made. Introduced for owners of multi-housing dwellings by common property standards for the building and the land area of the inn, without the allocation of a portion in kind. The fact is that, unfortunately, legislation today does not clearly regulate the relationship of property in multi-family housing and, unfortunately, in Ukraine today, only isolated examples of the instigation of the territory are in nature and are passed on by the union of coowners who want to take it into their own possession. In addition, there is a clear definition of what kind of housing is in Ukraine today, which forms of it. ownership and assignment of the housing fund, how to translate.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u216	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u217	How to transfer the housing fund to non-residential and vice versa. Today it is also a problem that is unfortunately not regulated by the current Housing Code. The criteria for housing payments are clearly set out, how housing fees should be paid and how; the attitude of co-ownership and the management of the housing fund. As the previous speaker has already said, the current Housing Code does not allow work to be done properly and those laws that are now adopted in separate ways: social housing, the protection of the rights of residents, the privatization of the State Housing Fund. So the government proposes to adopt in the first reading a bill that has now been submitted with a view to furthering it and can actually unite those norms that differ in both documents and adopt the Ukrainian Housing Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u218	Dear colleagues, the report is closed. The account. The head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy, Rybak Vladimir Vasilovic, will inform about the position of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u219	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! For the past 10 years, the Parliament has considered 7 texts of the new Housing Code. But subjective circumstances, primarily of a political nature, did not support any of them. Two bills have been proposed to your mind. Both options have been developed with the participation of experts, with the participation of local authorities, experts. The proposals, the comments were carefully worked out, most of the bills were taken into account. Therefore, the committee proposes to base one of the bills, to make a decision and to make a decision. On the second reading, we'll work out, all the comments will be taken into account, and we'll make a decision. The committee considered this issue and supported the majority of the government committee, a government bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u220	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss the bill? You don't? Please sign up. A recording of the performance is being made. May I have the names of the people's deputies? Oleg Lazko. And Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u221	Please give the floor to the colleague of Serbia Yuri Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u222	Yuri Serbin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u223	Thank you, Oleg Volodymyrovich. Valérie Illich, I beg your pardon. Dear colleagues, these two bills have indeed been prepared and qualified. But still, if you take the government, I want to argue why the committee made a decision on government. He's the one who highlighted problems that there's no representation in the MP's version. But it is essential that we prepare a quality document for the entry into service, according to the law, for the latter to be accepted, that we include in the second reading the suggestions of the right ones that are in the MP’s. Unfortunately, one and the other have lost a lot because we don't have a solution to the main question, which should be the first call of our Supreme Council: we've allowed housing to be privatized, but we haven't decided what to do with it. And this is a question that we need to work with you on second reading so that our people know where the direction and housing policy in the country will develop. So I ask, on behalf of our faction, that we support the government's version of the bill, and certainly take into account all the reasonable proposals -- many of them in the MP's version -- when adopted in the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u224	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u225	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” Please pass the word Zinovius Vasilovich Skutjak.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u226	Zinov Skutak, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u227	Zinovo Shkutjak, “Our Ukraine” faction, “For Ukraine!” Ladies and gentlemen, the Honourable Vladimir Mikhailovich, indeed, during the 18 years of independence of Ukraine, we have not been able to adopt the Ukrainian Housing Code, and this is a tremendous deterrent to the development of housing and utilities, and that is why I think it is just our duty to accept the Housing Code. It's needed today by Ukraine, because there are a lot of issues that need to be addressed today at the level of housing and utility development, and that's exactly what the Housing Code needs to do. I want to say that the Housing Code applied to all governments that. and the ministries that existed in Ukraine. For one reason or another, they are not accepted because the issue is very difficult and affects almost 60 percent of the population of Ukraine. But this government of Ukraine, it's more or less taking into account all the critical remarks that have taken place in all the housing codes, especially that it and the group of national MPs, and it's absolutely almost identical. So I think that if we adopt this bill in the first reading, we're going to get the result that we can work on the second reading, which could be this consensus, or it could be this golden medium that will push us to develop the housing and utility economy of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u228	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Committee proposal: to adopt bill 2307-1. But according to my registration, I am voting for the first proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft law, namely the draft Ukrainian Housing Code, registration number 2307, the author of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Popov Alexander Pavlović. [[14:07:57]] For-164 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on a proposal for acceptance on the basis of a draft Ukrainian Housing Code. [[Registration number 2307-1]] Please vote. [[2:08:25]] For 193 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to re-read the draft Ukrainian Housing Code. [[Registration number 2307, 2307-1]] To read again. Take off the vote, please, Mikhail Chechtov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u229	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! There is a compromise: let us make two codes to the committee and give the committee an opportunity to submit one single and comprehensive document.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-24-m0.u230	Dear colleagues! It depends on, one minute, if one of them calls off, whether it's the government or our fellow national MP, then he'll be alone. And let the committee work on it, there'll be more arguments, we'll see how the committee makes a decision. That's why I'm voting for re-reading the Ukrainian Housing Code. [[Registration numbers 2307, 2307-1]] [[14:09:44]] For 309 Decision taken. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Since 15 o'clock work on committees and factions. Tomorrow we will continue the plenary session from 10:00 a.m. to Thursday.
