ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u1	Please include the “Council” system. [[16:01:45.]] There are 403 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening plenary session open. I am continuing my consideration of Project 5398, a draft of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to prevent and combat corruption. Alexander Sergiyovich Dony, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u2	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Unfortunately, I have to start by saying that the Anti-Corruption and Anti-Corruption Act, which we have been given as a law to combat corruption, is everywhere corrupt. I am fully responsible for what I have said. It's a law aimed at combating small businesses, small businesses, propaganda and provocation of corruption, and it's not surprising that the power structures are completely out of public control and state control. Therefore, this law should not be repealed, but I would think that it should be repealed and reinstated, unfortunately, the Anti-Corruption Act. More specifically, the Law on Principles for Preventing and Resisting Corruption. You know, I just found statistics on January 1, 2007. Thus, on January 1, 2007, there were 2.3 million small and medium enterprises registered in Ukraine. Here I am addressing these 2 million and 300,000 people: “It is not just the law that is directed against you, but it is a conspiracy. Now you can't do anything other than entrepreneurship, any other kind of work. Not the secret is that one of the Ukrainians started a small business and received little money from it. Now you can only live on your dividends. Let's make it 200, 300 bucks. As soon as you do other activities, it will mean that the law - order authorities will come to you. What will this lead to? In Ukraine the share of small business GDP is still 7 percent, in Europe and America, small and medium-sized businesses account for 40 to 50 percent of GDP, even in Russia it is 14 to 17 percent. So someone doesn't know that there's still any small business in Ukraine. In Ukraine, according to these individuals, only the oligarchic system, which means that small businesses will continue to be choked. And as Mrs. Xenius Leapina has already said, you can really imagine that this is not just about entrepreneurs. Accountants who have worked several jobs and received 800 dollars may now have only one job. But what's really interesting is that now this law is out of control and you shouldn't write declarations of who would you think? Prosecutors, judges, policemen! Ladies and gentlemen, few have read this paragraph. Financial checks and special controls should only be followed by “a” and “g”. So after "a" and "g" there are special points, I can read to you who: judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, professional judges, persons of the rank and principal.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u3	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u4	Dear friends, therefore, speak that the rapists should not now make a declaration under this law. So in Baden-Baden you can build any apartment, any house. I propose not to postpone this corrupt law, but to abolish it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u5	Hare Ivan Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u6	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Obviously, the laws are imperfect, they need to be improved, but I listened to the reporter, I listened to the speakers, and they didn't convince me that they wanted to postpone these bills for a year because they wanted to improve them. If they wanted to improve, they would have submitted bills for improvement or at least made a proposal to stop articles that could be used today, not in the fight against corruption, but in the fight against corruption. But they didn't. I know that. I'm supporting Ariev in this position, he's talking in this direction. The other one. In the hands of corrupt courts and law enforcement authorities, it is clear that it is a twofold sharp sword: one blade will be directed against criminals, corrupters, and another blade will be directed against the opposition. So we need to approach these bills very carefully. Corruption devours the state, demoralizes all society. Because of gross corruption, little is done for the common good of the Ukrainians, for the authorities think only of their pockets, and they will never eat. So we have to start this fight. Another argument that makes me suspect this proposal. The bills that we're considering have an institution to declare not only income but also expenditure. He's in shape. We once passed a bill to state-declared officials not only on taxes, but also on expenses, which made us on a commission to turn people against human rights. So we have to start at the end. Second, a political argument. Choices. To local authorities and then to parliament. Clearly, many do not want to show today what it is every day, at which costs change their so - called gears, which they every quarter change cars, without thinking about the roads they have traveled around the world, are never in this room. This has to be answered sooner or later, so we have to finally start fighting this corruption, and this is the time today. We're already late, we need to understand that anti-corruption laws are the tools that separate power and business. It's not a secret that business today in our office in the executive branch is working together, and their main job is executive power. Clearly, then, we need to act decisively in this direction today. Let's make the proposals concrete, and in two or even one day's time, we'll vote them out, and we'll have normal laws. If there are no such suggestions, then these suggestions are from the wicked one. I can't understand what it takes a year to make these proposals in two days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u7	Sebravsky Paul Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u8	Dear colleagues, this is actually the result of us adopting such laws in a reduced procedure. If you remember, all the time the warning was based on the fact that fundamental, key laws under reduced procedures cannot be adopted. But there was one person sitting here -- and driving the shaft -- behind the reduced procedure, running, running, running. Of course, none of the deputies read all the laws. And they're relying somewhere on profilers who work on profile committees. And actually, we've allowed enough slaps in this law. Of course, corruption must be tackled, and it depends primarily on executive authorities, civil servants, prosecutors, judges, and militias. And there certainly was an increase. What, then, has happened to those who suffer from corruption today? It's also a business that colleagues have talked about, and it's doctors who are not working together today, and it's people who can't teach. So instead of keeping these people out of corruption, we're going to punish them now. This is not right. But, dear fellows, it's only, by the way, punitive functions are only half the case. Because business still needs to simplify business mechanisms seriously. And then there won't be on the part of the controlling organs of such manifestations. I understand that today’s proposal there is a wrong position, since there is nothing to dissipate there for a year. In a year, I'm sure it's not really going to be a fight against corruption, and it's going to be delayed. And I understand what the question here is, first of all what the IMF says and the same "quick help": if there are no non-receivable funds, then give us 100% funding, because if you don't give 100% funding, the PPPs won't go there, the fast ones won't go on the phone. This is also a problem. That's why it's an offer. I think she's in agreement. By the end of March, that is, by April 1, to suspend the implementation of these laws. In three months, we can be professionally, seriously approachable. And we should not be held accountable for the people for whom we accept this legislation. I'm convinced that in this way this bill can be adopted by April 1st. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u9	Bobil's Alexander Fadiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u10	Alexander Bobilev, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense", People's Self-Defense Party. Dear colleagues, of course, this is a very necessary and important law for the country, because we know what is today the level of corruption that is happening to us. The first thing we have to do is start. Please tell me how to fight corruption if we don't have a budget yet. Tell me what any law enforcement agency will do with the first number. We're closing all the funds, no questions asked. They need to be closed long ago because some of these funds are being used in a far different way from the one for which they should be used. But so far, there's not enough money. This time. Interesting points to review. We have people's jurors who have no right to work on paid work, but they don't pay in court either. So what do we call them to do by this law? Getting bribed because they can't live otherwise? It is very important to look seriously at the Law on Co-habitation. Why can't we let private doctors practice private practice doctors if they're allowed to study at a paid university? What are the problems: a person is educated for his money and cannot engage in private practice? But if we train professors, we prepare them for years. And what, a professor can't teach in a few colleges? Who will pass on this knowledge, who will pass it on, where our children will learn? Then we have to look at it and cut the vases. Of course, it is not possible to impose such a law for a year. Because the Corruption Act, which is in force today, is virtually ineffective. The sanctions that apply to our corrupters are just ridiculous. A man, in carrying out some corruption, pays 150 fines and continues to work in his office. And we will not strengthen this law, and corruption will naturally flourish. But before we use this law, we must remove the ground for corruption, which is to pay the budgeters, the officials, who must be properly distributed and properly paid, this is their full supply. And all the things we're talking about today, and the small business, and the scientists. That's why I think three months is enough with the head to work properly, start and start fighting corruption in a serious way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u11	School of Andriy Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u12	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! I would like to stress, however, that this rostrum has been repeatedly emphasized. So let's talk about definitions. Do we want to adopt this bill or not? Do we want to talk to him there? The only way to fight corruption is to strengthen legislation that ensures the fight against corruption, not formally. So in principle, I think we would have to adopt this law immediately in this situation, and as we did it, I don't know, two years ago, we adopted it. There's a delay that's proposed. I don't know how the author of the legislative initiative proposed for a year? It was possible to say five years later, and five years later, we will rebuild society and fight corruption. We don't have the right to talk about any delays. I also want to ask you a question: For six months we waited, why wasn't the legislation amended in six months? Why haven't we fixed it in six months? If we take another six months now, what are they better than before? We have presidential elections, then elections to local authorities. Can you tell me what's going to change in these six months? Yes, in this law there are plenty of inadequacies, maybe, like everyone else. I do. Please, there are no universal laws and there are no very good laws. If we could always write only good laws, believe me, the Supreme Council would work for ten years and it would always be closed down, and the Supreme Council, and the National Assembly of France and all the other constantly functioning legislative bodies. So now we need to adopt this law. We know what are the problems that exist, we know them, and we can make them as repairs and accept them immediately. Gentlemen, if we're now going to have one, six months, then there's going to be a very reasonable need to postpone for two months, then for half a year, for a year, for ten years, and, in principle, we're not going to get out of this suspension process. Because, gentlemen, we must now answer clearly and unequivocally, are we afraid to vote in favour of legislation or not? If there are any fears, I'm not saying there's anyone here. I don't want to argue that there are corrupts here who are afraid to press a button, even though there are questions. But when we talk about the fact that the law poses a threat to the collapse of the state, I don't believe it. I think corruption is the biggest threat. And to say that this law beats down and leaves the mountains unprotected, you will see who does not vote for this law, and you will have a clear answer as to whether it beats down or down. So I call on you not to support the delay, to support the initiative of amending and enacting the law in force, and to put it at that point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u13	The discussion is over. Replica of the Ariev People’s Deputy National deputy Ariev, one minute out of place. Put your card where you need it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u14	Dear colleagues, there have been quite a lot of good points now, and so I would like to inform you that the Vice-President of the Supreme Council, Nikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko, and I have now signed and ready for registration a bill that deals with very many issues, particularly those that have spoken about the inclusion of entrepreneurs in this Act and that they are no longer subject to this Act. We can fix this very quickly, if he is today, this bill is registered, tomorrow he can pass our committee, I will insist that he be included in the agenda of the Committee on Combating Corruption and Organized Crime and put and vote him in the Supreme Council. This does not require that anticorruption law be abolished, but that it should be changed and everything, and that it should be avoided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u15	Dear colleagues, we have authorized representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers to participate in the work of the Supreme Council. Is there any objection if we give the floor to a government representative? There's no objection. Please, Vladimir Mikolaiovich Evdokimov, Deputy Minister of Interior. I can tell you that the Cabinet of Ministers sent an authorized representative, obviously he didn't come here, that's also the answer to the question of whether we have an anti-corruption law or an anti-corruption law. I ask national MPs who do not feel well enough to treat their colleagues with respect. Please, Your Honor, the closing word of Novikov Oleg Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u16	Dear colleagues, we have heard the comments, we have heard the right suggestions. I still ask you to listen to the arguments that have already been said and to postpone for three months. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u17	Dear colleagues, vote on the adoption in the first reading of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to prevent and combat corruption. [[Registration number 5398]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:21:20]] For 208 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Please write down the reasons for the vote. School of Andriy Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u18	I think it's here. I think they've shown us how they voted. I'd like the rest of the time to tell Mr. Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u19	Dear colleagues, I think we're going to make the right decision. This right decision means that as an authority that respects itself, we cannot adopt and then repeal our laws. The law must work. But if we have a consensus, we can, during today, tomorrow and tomorrow, prepare agreed changes to this law, especially in part, that we will exclude entrepreneurs and all categories of non-state officials. Because the ideology of the law was the fight against corruption in the system of government and local government. And in these three days, these agreeing things will be introduced as changes to the law. And in this way we will not break our promises to our citizens or to international society. We're not going to end it, we're going to cancel the laws, and we're going to take down the dangerous standards that allow us to spread and create problems for those people who work in small, medium-sized businesses and all that. That's why we're in this position. We are opposed to suspending or revoking the law. But we ask the committee to take into account all the ideas that sounded here. And by agreeing to five factions tomorrow, let’s say we vote on those standards that are dangerous to business.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u20	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u21	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I think the Supreme Council has made the right decision. I'm arguing. Those of the colleagues who spoke and talked about the fact that the term of one year was completely wrong to make a decision were absolutely right. If we were to write about what to put it in. And so we, if I'm not mistaken, gave the deadline for the enactment of this law for six months. Now we want to move it for one more year. What's there is, excuse me, nonsense, is a fact, and a lot of nonsense is there. And that's why I support and our faction supports that, really, let's quickly and the authors of those changes that we made, we had to go a completely different way, a better legitimate way, bring in and get in touch with each other, not slow down the implementation of the law that is generally necessary for society, and what is relevant to electoral systems, small, medium and so on, no doubt needs to be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u22	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u23	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues, I have a question for the subject of the legislative initiative. We treat everyone with respect. These three laws have been proposed, as they say, to combat corruption. Why do they say that? Because all the speakers have come to realize that the impact is not at all high-powered, nor is it because of who thinks corruption is almost a daily thing, but when it comes to people who are, excuse me, completely out of line with this category. It's not just about small and medium-sized businesses, it's about total social executions, it's about whole categories at risk. I have a question for my colleagues, the authors of the legislative initiative. Have few grants been given from relevant international organizations to draft a quality bill? Why is there a stupid, really, situation where we trust the professionalism of those people who work in this area, and then they do things like that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u24	Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u25	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! I want to support Mikola Volodymyrovich, as I understand it, including my offer can be taken into account. I've prepared my bill, but I'm happy to join in, I can co-authorize the bill, because I insist, I think this understanding is already in the session room, that the members of the election committees are destroying the Central Election Commission and have nothing to do with the public service. We want them to be criminally responsible for the possibility of hypothetically violating legislation. So let me tell you that it is quite serious and powerful in the Criminal Code, much more important than those laws provide. So here we're actually predicting amnesty in this part. I mean, they wanted it as good as ever. In view of these circumstances, let us not intimidate the air. What does not apply to the body of the law must be removed. And what's left over, government officials, including CBC, well, they're actually government officials, I'll have no objection. So I think it's best this way, let's see who has other constructive proposals. They may even have a short working group to create a vice-speaker there. And I think that this issue can be resolved quickly today and tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u26	Smithuh Grigori Yudkomovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u27	Dear National Deputies! This problem in our country is, in my opinion, the following. You know that much of Ukraine's economy is in the shade. That's part one. You know, the administrative apparatus of the country is too big for our economy. You know very well about this. You know, any transition economy needs financial amnesty. So first you have to make rules that give cause or cause corruption. And then just to increase the responsibility. What are we doing? We are not taking any steps, in my view, in this direction, but we are strengthening our responsibility by giving us the right to do so. As an example. Do you remember we passed a roadside law? And what has happened in this regard? Is it less expensive? No, it's not. Because the roads haven't improved. Then I have an offer for the hall. Let's go back to this law, the law, and vote in such a way that we introduce this law three months after the new year. And that's going to be a normal approach. At the same time, I call on the law that belongs to me to make financial decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u28	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u29	I think if the Supreme Council doesn't do this, then our President Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic will come and he will take the first steps, including with regard to amnesty, and with regard to removing these issues, which give rise to the shadow economy and which give birth to this criminal clan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u30	Dear colleagues, the vote is over. The only suggestion that came out is to go back to the month and question, three, four, we can figure it out, but only if there's the will to go back to that term. If there is no such will, there is no point. Please put to the vote the proposal to return to the decision on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on preventing and combating corruption]] [[Registration number 5398]] Please be sure about your return. [[16:29:23]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. We're not back. In this way we completed our consideration of the matter. The factions, please. Region Party – 167, "Timoshenko Yulia Block" – 1, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 31, Communist faction – 0, "Litvina Block" – 19, non-fractional – 2. Dear colleagues, at our morning plenary meeting, we had a decision to discuss the evening session, ready for a second reading of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Land. The table is comparatively distributed in the session room with the signatures of all members of the committee, so that everyone can see that there was a quorum, and that there is a consensus decision of the committee. I am announcing in the second reading a draft of the Amendment Act to Chapter X, paragraphs 14, 15 of the Code of Land Transitions of Ukraine. Please, Alexander Mikolaiovich Tkachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u31	Dear colleagues, as we agreed at an earlier meeting, the suggestions made in the hall by Pisarenkom, Tuckchenk, discussed at the committee meeting. The committee considered and supported proposal number one, number two, submitted by the national deputy Tkachenko. And I turned down the offer of the People's Deputy Pisarenko. So I'd like to ask you in an article, Alexander Volodymyrovich, to start the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u32	Dear colleagues, let us now consider the amendments proposed to the draft law that we have adopted in the first reading. Amendment No. 1 Alexander Mikolayovich The Committee recommends that we consider. It is also intended to supplement the restrictions with the words “but not before 1 January 2012” in paragraph 14. Proposal No. 1 of the People’s Deputy Tuckchenka is based on the vote. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u33	Please vote. [[16:32:08]] For 214
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u34	To 214.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u35	No, but wait.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u36	The offer is not supported. What? () [[B in m in s a l in]] On the proposal of Oleg Alexandrovich Zarubinski, I am voting on the proposal to return to the amendment. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:32:42]] For-200 Not supported. Amendment No. 2 by Alexander Mikolaiovich Tkachenka, who proposes to add 15 points after words limiting the adoption of land market laws and the Earth cadastre, also mentions that not before 1 January 2012. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council take this amendment into account. Amendment No. 2 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:33:32]] For-142 The decision is not taken. Amendment No. 3 of People's Deputies Pisarenko. The committee recommends a rejection. People’s MP Pisarenko insists on his correction and argument? Don't insist. Amendment No. 3 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:34:09]] For-137 No correction supported. Dear colleagues, so we don't have any amendments. I would like to vote on the second reading of the draft Law amending Section X, paragraphs 14, 15 of the Code of Land Transitions of Ukraine. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:34:49]] For-163 Unadopted law. Please write down the reasons for the vote. Stonewall Valery Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u37	Dear colleagues, we've just seen what's going on in our country. Forgeries in the elections that are planned, forging and so forth. We voted in favour of supporting these positive changes in land relations, but the left side did not support us. That is why we urge the people of Ukraine. People of Ukraine, be vigilant in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u38	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u39	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, when we voted on this bill in the first reading, we came to the conclusion that, indeed, taking into account the proposals that I have made, which I have made by my colleague Žebrovsky, will be more clearly spelled out and more clearly spelled out those norms that are still in force today in the Final Positions of the Code of Earth. Perhaps the fact that we were still impressed by the previous law did not make sense of the situation. Here it is suggested that taking into account the current norm that can not be used to buy and sell agricultural land until the adoption of the relevant laws, but not before 1 January 2012. In general, it was suggested that only until 2012, and this included and remained the law on previous laws. So I ask you to go back to the amendments, to vote on the amendments and the law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u40	Hare Ivan Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u41	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Clearly, the oligarchs do not want and will not make Ukrainian land in Ukrainian hands. The point is that, according to the current edition, in order for the sale and sale to take place, not two conditions have to be met as they treat it, but actually three. The first condition is to pass the Land Market Act, the second is the State Land cadastre, and the third condition is to determine the characteristics of the circulation of state and municipal property and land of agricultural production. So, dear oligarchs, you are not very happy. And now I would ask our government to take action so that in the next year the 13 million hectares that cause saliva in our oligarchs today are taken to state property, because this is a land where there is no owner. Let's put order in order and let's make sure that the land is owned by a farmer -- a man who lives and works on this earth.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u42	Smithuh Grigori Yudkomovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u43	Dear National MPs, well, this law has become a hostage, you know, of the political situation that has taken place today, for this moment in the Supreme Council. I'd like to ask the BUT party to go back to the issue of the Corruption Act, to postpone it for three months, thereby allowing it to be brought back to normal by standards that do not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine. This will be a compromise on our part and on their part. And in due time, support this bill, which is important. Although, you all know what is happening today without looking. If there is no Supreme Council, it will not return to the consideration of this issue, the moratorium will be in effect and will take effect after the New Year. Therefore, Ukrainian citizens should know that the sale of land legally after the New Year, after January 1, will not take place because it is prohibited by two laws. And it's going to work until 2012. I'd like us to compromise and go back to those two laws. If necessary, even the packets should be voted on. But this would eliminate political tensions, including speculation about the sale of land. Because your leader, Julia Timoshenko, and our Victor Fedorovich, claimed and claimed they were against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u44	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u45	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues, that's the position: you're one law to us, you're another law to us. The legislative process is not a wedding in Malinovka: it's for you, it's for me again, it's for you. That's funny, let's face it. It is surprising that when this bill was considered in the first reading just a few hours ago, people who did not now vote literally with foam in their mouth said that they should immediately vote in favour of this moratorium on the sale of agricultural land today. [[It's not an insult, it's just a statement of fact.]] What does that mean? It means: words - some, things - others. This means that the team obviously came from outside the Supreme Council to those MPs who, frankly, voted in an understanding way for Ukrainian land not to become an object of speculation, a team of those who apparently had already made these speculations for themselves and predicted. It's just a shame.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u46	The vote is closed. There is one suggestion: To return to the consideration of all the amendments. I'm putting this proposal to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:40:58]] For 284 We're back. Amendment No. 1 of the People’s Deputy Twachenka shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:41:20]] For 322 Correction counted. Amendment No. 2 of the People’s Deputy Twachenka shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:41:41]] For 325 Correction supported. Amendment No. 3 of the People’s Deputy Pisarenko is subject to a vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:42:01]] For-143 No correction supported. The draft Law on Amendments to Section X, paragraphs 14, 15 of the “Transitional Positions” of the Ukrainian Code of Land puts the vote on second reading and in general. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:42:34]] For 344 The law has been passed in general. Dear colleagues, we were about to go to the draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Mining Act. [[Registration number 4314]] The Conciliation Council of the People's Self-Defense factions insisted on its consideration in the first order. But now I've got a letter asking me to move it to Thursday. Any objections to the national MPs? Is there no objection? No one's denying it. There's a denial. Please, Volodymyr Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u47	Vladimir Yavorowski, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. I'd like to know what the reason why we're carrying, what's the point? Who insists on passing this bill, by the way, is very important, which is worth voting for.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u48	Committee head Martinenko Mikola Volodymyrovich signed a letter. The reason is the absence of the national deputy Kravchenk, who was at the morning meeting, but for some reason he went elsewhere. There's no insistence? The draft law amending the Law on Scientific and Technological Activities of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the calculation of pensions for scientific workers]] [[Registration number 2243]] Reports Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u49	Ukrainian Republican Party "The Council", "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for supporting the law that Ph.D. is part of the scientific internship. And I want to continue by asking you to support another 2243 bill, which aims at combining the work of a scientist in a scientific institution and his simultaneous teaching under the Education Act, he has the right to have up to 50 percent of the workload in a higher school, to count as a basis for pension accounting. And on the contrary, a scientist, a teacher in a higher school can have the right to have the right to have a degree in science and get up to 50 percent of the workload there, no more, to have the right to receive a pension from a sum. Why do I say that? The point is, if we look at the situation in science and education today, especially in the field of higher education, we will see that the quality of higher school today requires a serious revision and an appropriate conclusion, and first of all, this refers to the teaching composition, the professor's curriculum. Obviously, it would be good if we encouraged scientists to participate in and engage in teaching, including teaching. On the other hand, the same situation could have been corrected if science were so stimulated that scientists working in higher education could have been involved in science. Today, there is virtually no incentive, since you know that wages are low today, both in science and in higher education. And not all pensions are taken, but only one place to get a salary is taken, so obviously there is no such interest. And today we're going to have a smaller number of scientists who are teaching at higher school, and candidates and doctors are going to do less practice and work in science if they're working at a higher school in scientific institutions. I want to tell you right now that we don't obviously have in the budget today the possibility of such a luxury to raise a substantial salary and those 80, or 90 percent of the wages of scientists in accordance with the Law on Scientific and Scientific Engineering to add to the pension. I'll give you an example that today, let's say that the average wage for October is 1578 dollars, which is less than the average wage in the processing sector, in the food industry, in the construction industry, I don't say fuel-energy, I don't say metal industry anymore. And so this kind of proposal that I'm making is obviously going to give them a chance to at least interest them with pension insurance. As far as retirement is concerned, I would also like to give you a few examples. For example, thanks to the Science and Technology Act, we now have an appropriate pension size slightly higher than the mandatory state pension insurance in this area. But if you look at it, this pension insurance is less than 50 percent less than the local self-government workers, the pension security of scientists is 60 percent less than the government, the judges are three times more, the prosecutors are three times more, the public authorities, so that is, the support of the media by 60 percent more than the scientists, the assistant consultants receive an 80 percent higher pension than the average pension of scientists today. So when we offer these proposals, it's obviously not a great luxury. But in this way, we will be interested in the development of science and will be interested in the quality of higher education. I'd like a colleague to support this bill. I would like to ask you, Alexander Volodymyrovich, immediately, as this bill has long been in the Supreme Council, we cannot violate the Budget Code. And so this law, if it were to be passed, and I would suggest that it be adopted in the first reading and in general, as my amendment as the author, be put into effect on 1 January 2011. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u50	Any questions for the reporter? Let's sign up, please. Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u51	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Anatoly Sergiyovich, here's the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Administration that the law will have the effect of creating unequal conditions for workers who have special pension schemes. I don't agree with this conclusion, but obviously those who don't want to support your bill will appeal to this very norm. Once again, I want you to make it clear that this promotion does not in any way create the luxury or wealth of people who have to form the scientific potential of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u52	The special laws that shape the appropriate size of the salary include the pension insurance of civil servants, the service of local self-government, the prosecutor's office, the status of the national deputy, the status of judges, the status of the Cabinet of Ministers, the scientific and scientific technical activity, the state support of the media, the forensic expertise, the National Bank, and so on. [[In this case, this is what we're looking at.]] Thus, all the special pensions I have listed are much higher than those of scientists under the Science and Technology Act. I said, 60 percent for civil servants, 50 percent for local self-government, three times for prosecutors, three times for judges. Obviously, science today can't be less stimulated than, let's say, punitive organs. Otherwise, about the innovative model of Ukraine's development, we can't talk about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u53	People's deputy Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u54	Kamchatny, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”, Kharkiv region. Dear Anatoly Sergiyovich, in my district with which I work, there are more than 30 higher education institutions. And on behalf of those people who have addressed me, I want to ask you a question. As far as your suggestions to amend the Law on Pensions apply to those people who, at first glance, do not engage directly in scientific activity but provide it. For example, departments that provide for the preparation of higher-quality personnel, a department that provides for the training of assistants, more loyally, aspirant, and so on, that is, those that provide for the training of scientific personnel and so forth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u55	Well, this law does not apply to all the articles of the Science and Technology Act. The Science and Science and Technology Act clearly defines which categories fall within the scope of this law. And adequately, those who are engaged in real science and who have an appropriate scientific degree fall within the scope of this law, and who, therefore, refer to these categories. I don't regulate this norm, I don't touch it, I'm only talking about one step right now, it's just to interest people. Why do we still have a lot of qualified people in the service, even though there's a meager salary? Because they have an adequate pension insurance that stimulates them. In order to return or encourage today to do science and science and pedagogical activities, I'm asking you to support in the same way. Moreover, you know that the education law provides for 50 percent, up to 50 percent of the totality. But we don't have more than 50 percent, we usually do.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u56	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u57	We don't usually have 50 percent, someone has 20 percent, someone has 30 percent. But it's a kind of stimulus. And I'm asking you to support this standard, as I believe it will help us support science and pedagogical activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u58	The national deputy Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u59	Vladimir Yavorowski, the 100th legendary constituency. Mr. Anatoly, the idea of your bill is absolutely positive. And we fully support it. My question is this. Almost all candidates for philology and doctoral sciences could not have written their dissertations without the original, without the works of Ukrainian writers. Well, that's good. And we vote for raising scientists, including philosophers. But imagine such a paradox. Sadly, Paul Zagrebian, who had already died, had received some 900 dollars of his pension, creating a complete library of Ukrainian books. Today, the writers, Anatoly Dimarov, receive about a thousand bracelets. How do you feel about us being like this, if we're like this, so we want justice and we're trying to pursue it, as you do, so that we can, let's say, take something similar to what you're now proposing? How do you feel about this? Do you support me?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u60	Thank you. I think that's a very pressing problem. Indeed, those who carry the word of enlightenment, who are the authority, today, well, they live in pitiful conditions. Even more, he does not earn a decent pension. But I think that's the norm of another law. And obviously we need to think, maybe, about the winners of the Shevchenk Prize. At least that's a step to take. And in this way, think about whether the baskets of our writing should be supported and adequately appreciated in this society.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u61	Kouzmuk Alexander Ivanovich. None. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u62	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I'm going to support your bill because it primarily prevents the escape of intelligence from Ukraine, that is, the brain. We also discussed the previous bill with you, where we came to the conclusion that as of 1/01/11 we should introduce it – this is undoubtedly the case. And thank you for confirming that. I just wanted to ask you why we've been recording since 2000. Perhaps it is possible that the term may not be limited by the year 2000, perhaps we should move a little further. I understand that there will be no large sums, because remember, we have now left the Anti-Corruption Act in force. And that means there's not going to be any cracks in the state, more loyally, in the state institutions. It's just going to go down there, it's not going to be 0.5 anymore, it's going to go down there, you can be sure of that. So maybe next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u63	This rule is transferred from the preceding part of the 24th article, and it does not apply to the substance of my amendment, it simply refers to the accounting mechanism. When we went to a different retirement procedure, which is, since 2000, there's another accounting mechanism. And that's why we can't change that right now because we didn't have that figure until 2000.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u64	Kostenko Yuri Ivanovich. None. Stoyan Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u65	Dear reporter, I certainly support what you've said, I need to raise pensions for scientists, and the writers need to raise pensions and much more. But please tell me why this social injustice is happening: today the government official gets 80 percent, or 90 percent of the average salary, and the teacher, the doctor, is also creative and works, only gets 50 percent of the average wage. And those who suckle cows and those who stand in a car, and those who work in a mine or in a metallurgical plant, about 50 percent. Why such social injustice? I have a question: “Do you consider it appropriate to review the pension scheme at all, based on what all citizens of Ukraine who have reached retirement age should receive pensions according to their internships, the average wage and the ceiling should be 80-90 percent? You can't divide into whites, blacks, poets, writers, scientists. What's your offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u66	Thank you. I think I absolutely support you that pension reform is already too late, and we need to carry out pension reform, and the sooner the better. And obviously, in that pension reform, you really have to look at all those proposals, and including what you're saying, that's right enough. But now I'm talking about only one norm and I would like to support it with the understanding that we have to move on to all the reform of the entire pension system.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u67	Smithuh Grigori Yudkomovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u68	Anatoly Sergiyovich, explain, please, as I recall, for today in higher education institutions and secondary technical institutions, almost half of them are private institutions. And that's where the teaching staff of the experts works, right? And how will this law spread to people who work in public institutions and in private? That's the first question. And the second question. Don't you think there's a whole need for reform? Because we have this number of scientists to date, and the practical impact in our country, well, unfortunately, today we're not getting any as consumers of particular goods or know-how. So it's been a moment of reality: science itself is going in the same direction, and the economy itself is going in the same direction. And that's why we don't have, so to speak, the innovative nature of economic development. How are these issues resolved, and how does this influence the law to somehow solve this problem, which will contribute to Ukraine's economic development?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u69	Thank you. Well, the scientific institutions of our own are no different from the wide range of colleges. I want to say that I certainly support the philosophy of orderizing and licensing higher schools. What we're doing today with a number of colleges is, I think, we're ahead of the entire planet. And apparently today's ministry course is liberal enough. At least he's getting in order, but I think he's liberal enough. You have to look at the quality, whether you have the ability to give quality education, and only such a quality license. But as for the fact that science can then be as teachers in such a institution obviously needs to be stimulated, whether it's a private one or a state one. And that's what real scientists are up to, not formal people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u70	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Report on an alternative project by Ukrainian National Deputy Kulczynski Mikola Georgievic. It's not an alternative, but it's the same subject. We all look at them together because they all apply to the same subject. Please, out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u71	Mikola Kulczynski, “For Ukraine!” MP, “Our Ukraine”. I ask you to withdraw my bill because I believe that it has lost its relevance, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the entire Ukrainian pension system needs a very, very deep reform and a very serious approach to this reform. And because there's a huge injustice in the solidarity system, there's a huge injustice in the specialties and the ordinary pensioners, and I don't solve this problem with my bill. Please take it off the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u72	Dear colleagues, no objection? We're taking off 2761 on request. I won't. I invite you to report on Bill 3001 of Pavlovsky Andrija Mikhajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u73	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! Bill 3001 is proposed for your attention. It is proposed to amend the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Technological Activities, in particular that a scientist be considered a scientist who, in addition to the definition of what is currently in force, has at least three scientific publications in printed publications that are defined by a higher certification commission and are included in the list of professional publications. [[on clarifying the status of scientific workers]] This is due to the fact that there is a certain category of citizens who hold a scientific position without a scientific degree or a scientific title. I also want to point out that we're trying to raise pensions, which is what the previous reporter was talking about. And then they're going to apply for a higher scientific pension. And what I want to point out is that abroad the publication of scientific works is mandatory, and that's what's called a quote index. And this is one of the defining signs of what distinguishes scientific work from that of others. Thank you for your attention. And by the way, what I want to add is that this bill is going to take down, remove the contradiction between 1st and 6th articles of this law, where it's said that a scientist is going to publish his work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u74	Any questions? Please sign up. Stoyan Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u75	Dear reporter, would you please tell me what kind of minimum pension is today? I'll remind you, this is the pension that your government has established, 498 dollars according to the subsistence minimum. You didn't add 75 dollars, so you left millions of our pensioners out of poverty. And I have a question: do you have any data on how many scientists or assistants in schools, scientific institutes, have only a minimum pension that rejects them beyond poverty? Do you have such information? What you're proposing to bring this category of people out of poverty, i.e. 792 bracelets. Because today the poverty line is per person, if the total income is less than 792 dollars, it's beyond poverty. That is, millions of pensioners, thanks to your government, the Timoshenko government, beyond poverty, millions of working people -- 650 minimum wage -- beyond poverty. What do you propose in your law to bring these people out of poverty? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u76	Thank you for asking. Well, I figured you didn't get the point. There is a definition of who is a scientific worker. I propose that this be the case with at least three scientific articles. And in general, what you said about that is that we have 85,000 citizens in scientific pensions. 79, here is Mr. Matthewnko. And the average pension is 1600. 1850 Greven is the average pension of a scientist.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u77	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u78	Yuri Carmazin. I want to ask you a question like that. The bill asks you that you are a scientific worker if you have at least 3 publications that are included in the list of printed publications that are included in the above. published by the Cabinet. Do you not think that this is not a confirmation of the qualifications or effectiveness of a person’s work? I mean, it's a criterion, it's one of the criteria, but it's a very small criterion for us to do this, whether it's scientific, or whether it's a worker that's serious scientific, and it's a benefit. I don't think that's enough. Can't you see that you have to raise those demands that you write? And that's what we're going to have to do right now. And only for everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u79	Thank you for asking. We have, as we said, a category of people who have no scientific names, did not defend the dissertations, but they embrace the positions of academics and do not have any publications. And then they're going to apply for a higher scientific pension. So we encourage them to, even though they publish the results of their work, to actually see what they're doing, to confirm their qualifications in the scientific environment. And I told you, abroad, it's one of the main indicators. There is such a concept as a citation index.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u80	And the number of publications.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u81	Chechtov Mikhalo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u82	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues! The faction of the Party of the Regions, the Party of the Regions and its leader, Viktor Fedorovic Janukovic, have always supported the country's intellectual potential. Because without intelligence it is impossible to build a free, democratically beautiful Ukraine, in which everyone will live comfortably and comfortably. In this situation, therefore, in order to avoid brain drains abroad, it may be necessary to maintain and guarantee material security and retirement age in the country. Therefore, from this point of view, these bills will naturally find support for the faction of the Party of the Regions, the only question to you. How can we be those who want to support the idea and the philosophy of the bill? I mean, vote for all three of them, and then you blind one of them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u83	Thank you for your support. I propose to support all three bills, they don't contradict and they're not alternatives to each other. It is Mr. Matthewnko who insists that the law be passed in general. I'll be more modest, I'll ask them to vote for me.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u84	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u85	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinsky's Block of Lithuania. Dear Andrey Mikhailovich, frankly, your very idea is nice. Do you know why we don't have any Ukrainian higher education institutions that go into different grades even in the first two hundred in the world? Just because there's one of the three main indicators is the level of quote, that's the level, the number of publications. But you know this idea could have been introduced into the law at all, but it wasn't about pension insurance. Because science itself provides for different fields and specialties. I'll give you a few names: scientific research, design, technology, search, design, design and so on. And below all is the need for three publications, you realize that for a specialist who works in different fields, it's different things to have three publications in the WAC. To some extent it's not right to place the same conditions on people who work on different subjects first, and secondly, on another scientific plane. Maybe we're different.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u86	Thank you. The goal was simply to ensure that people who claim to be a scientist have a minimum criterion, if they did not defend the dissertation, have no academic title, such as taking over an older scientist and have no publication. Although there is a minimum criterion for at least three publications defined by the WAC. Otherwise, as a scientist, students already have certain publications that want to do science.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u87	National Deputy Suškević.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u88	Dear Andrew Mikhailovich, I want to ask you, because in his own words Anatoly Sergeiovich Matviyenko said, one of the main motivations in government officials is the state's pension, they stick to the place, they value it. If we cut off now, depending on the number of publications needed and the reference magazines died, there are no scientific publications, you know that, because you have grown up in a family of scientists. And you know, in what state of the older generation, this is exactly what this Mathienne bill says about the older generation that needs to be settled, the pension. It can't be, they're looking for a place outside of Ukraine. And that's why I'm asking. Do you think we should support this today because we've lost everything we can, we're going to leave, we're going to lose that capital? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u89	Thank you. As for Mr. Matvienko's bill, he can be supported, I've already mentioned it. And as for mine, it just defines the minimum criteria that a person needs to have in order to claim to be a scientist. And that in no way narrows down the category of people who, you say, will receive a pension, especially since it's not a civil servant's pension, but a scientific worker, it's defined by another law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u90	People's deputy Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u91	Kamchatny, "Lulija Timoshenko" District, Kharkiv Region, Vuzijsk County, Kyivsky and Djerginsk Districts. Replying to his opponent, who has just mentioned his leader, who has devoted a great deal to the support of science and so forth, I want to say that today many people are not really covered by this law today, but will be included tomorrow. I mean, first of all, college is the future science, it's the future lights, it's the future light heads of our nation. And it was our leader, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, who offered to increase the scholarship of this category of future scientists and this is the future science of our nation. And today, in particular, the students of my constituency are deeply grateful to the Prime Minister for his support. And my question is this. Dear Andrew, point out how much harmony there will be between those who are involved in science and those who are in charge of certain organizational structures.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u92	Well, my amendment applied only to the number of minimal publications. In terms of compatibility, we should invite Mr. Anatoly Matviennek's previous lecturer, he seems to have talked about it, he doesn't deny it, so a person can do both compatibility and science, and administrative work, it won't have any effect on his pension.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u93	People's MP Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u94	Thank you, Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine”. I have a very specific question about three publications in the so - called WAKów editions. Well, if I'm not mistaken, the VAC started to define the list of these issues about ten years ago. Does this mean that if your bill is supported, all publications that were more than 10 years ago cease to be scientific publications and those who carry them out lose the status of a scientist, a scientific worker. Secondly, please tell us what to do to younger scientists, who, for example, are just assigned to this position and are just starting their scientific work. If they haven't been able to publish their work in the first year, and they've only prepared it, do you think they're going to stop being scientists? And the third. If it happened that a scientist worked for a year on monographs and did not publish three articles, would he not be enrolled in the scientific internship? Please answer these questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u95	It's not about science. I want to point out that three publications, and whoever did science knows that it's not so hard to do it, the more it's not just publications, big articles or monographs, but a report at scientific conferences that will then be published in the WAC's publications, they're also considered a publication. There are lists of journals that are defined by WAC, branch, scientific, and so forth. These, these conferences in the report are published in the magazine, then this is considered a publication.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u96	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, Bill 3185 Katerina Seminevna cannot report now. Adam Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u97	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, we have another Bill of Catherine Samuel, number 3185. In view of the fact that she is in the hospital, I would ask that we take into account, I think, everyone saw that ideas, they are not alternatives, they are somewhat complementary to the bill proposed by colleagues Matvienko and Pavlovski. And I think when he makes a statement from the profile committee, he's going to give an opinion on all three bills. We'll discuss them, and then we'll have the opportunity to vote on each of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u98	Correspondence from the committee, Mikhailo Vasilovich Zubec. Stepan Davemuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u99	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! As early as December last year, the Committee on Science and Education reviewed all the proposed bills. They relate to the social protection of scientists and their pensions. In the case of the project, 2,243 colleagues from Matvienko. It proposes that, when the amount of a scientific pension is calculated by its principal place of employment, work is taken into account by way of compatibility. This is an extremely relevant bill. Because you know that our universities are now divided into institutions, that is, colleges have become institutes, and teachers work in different institutions. There are general pulpits, such as mathematics, the history of Ukraine and so on, which are served by all institutions. And it's a work for a compendium. And this severely restricts them in calculating pensions. And with regard to this bill, we have once again a very interesting legal coalition. According to the Ukrainian Act “On a compulsory state pension insurance” all types of earnings that pay insurance premiums, i.e. for co-financing, are included in the appointment of a general pension. But when they define a scientist's pension, they refer to the Science and Technology Act and, in fact, they often refuse to take this compatibility into account. That's why it's very relevant to introduce this form into this law and we support the bill. I want to say, for further information, that the average pension of a scientist today is 1959 dollars, which is a very low pension. And the average wage today is 2035 dollars. You see, we need to make this decision right away. As for Bill No. 3001 of the Pavlovsky People’s Deputy. The bill proposes a new definition of the concept of a scientific worker, which refers, in fact, to the availability of these three scientific publications. We believe that the offer of a colleague of Paul’s regarding the presence of a scientific worker of at least three publications in the approved U.S.A. professional publications is insufficiently justified. So in the absence of such publications, this person, being a scientific worker and doing virtually scientific research, will have neither scientific status nor scientific experience. Applying this law in practice can lead to serious difficulties, especially in the calculation of scientific work and in the numbering of pensioners. In doing so, the pension authorities will have to consider not only the position taken in the workbook, but also the availability of the above - mentioned publications. In addition, publications include patents that are not printed in professional publications. And that's why they won't include the Pension Fund as a publication. So this bill right here in this part really requires, raises serious doubts and requires some work to be done. The Committee supports Bill No. 2243. And with regard to the Pavlovsky bill, he believes that he needs to be further worked out. That's the decision, that's the decision of our committee. But I say this, these proposals require serious, serious doubts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u100	Any questions for Stepan Antonovich? None. Thank you. Please sit down. Let's sign up for a discussion. Evening Volodymyr Mikolajovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u101	Evening, Party of Regions. I give the word to Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u102	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions. I want to tell all the students who just heard from BET about Julia Timoshenko's great concern for college. So, in your program, when you went to the election, it was written that you were going to give scholarships somewhere on average, like a salary. Today you know what kind of scholarship. Next. I carefully read Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrna, a presidential candidate. This is the program. Officially, I say. There's not a word about students here, not even the word "student." Here's Timoshenko's concern for the students in the future. I want to draw attention to our leader Janukovic's program. First of all, it's the first job and compensation for the businesses that are going to be taking students after graduation. The other one. Today, you know, on a government order, 50 percent of the school fees. Our presidential candidate, Viktor Janukovic, offers 75 percent of the government’s bid, that is, the state’s teaching. It's about retirement. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we need to support scientists, of course scientists can't work properly, because there's no incentive, low pay, low pensions. I have a lot of colleagues that I've worked with both at Donetsk University and at Kyiv University, in institutes, you know, they're begging for the pension they're getting today. And so, of course, we need to support Anatoly Matviennek's offer. But I'm surprised when we do, you know, exactly, selectively add to pensions. State officials made 80-90 percent of the average wage, and certainly getting 90 percent, that's 10 percent less, that's what they got the salary, they can safely go and retire this pensioner, let's say, a civil servant. Next. Now scientists have to do that too. I'm asking the question: “Is it the peasants who work on the ground, why should they receive 50 per cent of the average wage; why does a metallurgy worker in March get 50 per cent of the pension, can he live and support the family; why does a miner who works underground receive 50 per cent and many others; a teacher, a doctor, a cultural worker?” And it's time to make the pension code. What's the point? The fact that we really don't say that we should reduce pensions to government officials, that's not. But we need to assign 80-90 percent of the average wage to all the people who work in our state. And so that these pensions are determined according to the length of the job, and not to raise the retirement rate as required by the International Monetary Fund, but as it is, and take the average wage. That's when it's going to be socially fair. Well, let's get it to stage one, today we'll support Matviennek. But what I want to do next is I want my law to work, which is from May 98, a law that predicts what I'm saying. He didn't even look at it. I'm going to pass this law again, and I want us to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u103	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u104	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues, let me do this without agitation and propaganda, because I have bills in my hands, not election programs. I think we're looking at bills, not election programs. So here's to specific bills. Once again, I would not like the idea of a colleague of Paul’s to fall in the summer. She has a very sound perspective. I think a colleague should be advised to put these proposals into other norms of the same law, because there are two positions that cannot be determined, deserved or not deserved. I want to give you some examples. So is it individual publications or are they collective? And you know, if we write this rule down, you'll see how they're going to do it by putting a name in a collective publication. [[You know how to do that, don't you?]] One second. If it's monograph, if it's a collective monograph, it doesn't fall within your definition of Wakiv publications. So let's keep this idea going. With regard to Bill 2,243 of Collegiate Matvienko. He certainly has the right to life and must be sustained. Do you know what the simple argument is? The Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine provides for work to be done in conjunction. It's already foreseen. Let's move on. At the same time, when calculating the amount of a worker's pension, it does not include the costs of scientific activity under the co-operation, whereas under the Ukrainian Act on “Generally Compulsory State Pension Insurance” all types of income from which insurance contributions are paid are taken into account in the assignment of a general pension. So there's a colossal, and my colleague Matvienko is removing this colossal, he's giving us basic justice. I don't want to say a lot of puffos about what doesn't matter about science anymore, because the quality of social life is largely determined by the scientific and pedagogical workforce. And scientists. So I have a proposal to support Bill 2243 by Anatoly Sergeiovich Matvienka, and I have no reason not to support this bill as a whole today. Maybe. and not possible, and I'd just like to call on the honourable colleagues to vote today as a whole. The bill, once again, is valid. And the last moment. Compared to the 91st year, we have a number of science teachers, scientists have gone down three times. It can be said that a large number is not a high quality, but it should be said that the quality of scientists will also be low in low-income pensions and wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u105	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u106	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear National Deputies! We're looking at very important laws, and we're looking at a lot of people who can hear us, who are called averages today, and some people are reading to them here today about the presidential candidates' programs. In fact, I would like to remind everyone who talks about the presidents' programmes in this high rostrum only one thing: the Constitution does not provide for the resolution of those problems by the presidents that you all hang on to the presidents. And remember this clearly, and do not stick your tongues to what you do not need to! The President has exclusive powers under the Constitution. All right, dot. Let's discuss the bill here. That's it. According to the first draft, submitted by colleague Matvienko, 2243 B.C.E. It should be accepted, accepted in the first reading, and at least this clearly, taking into account the amendments that are and apply to non - state scientific institutions. As for the second bill, the bill passed by a colleague of Pavlovsky. I want to say that he's made an attempt at any way to put horns between scientists who count as scientists and those who fall under this law: scientific and scientific engineering. And this is a good try for a young scientist. Another question. What if we're going to open Europe, into the open world, we have to move on to an evaluation of the work of a scientist as it is in the world. The level of citation or the index of citation, how large you are referred to. And who of the great ones today who defended candidates and doctoral dissertations are referred to? I don't care about anyone! Why? Because most of them just don't need anyone. I'm telling you a little bit. A person who spends three years in life and introduces a code and gets it, is not a scientist, it is, it is. And whoever writes three publications to one article, one article that will not be accepted, which will not be taken into account, is a scientist, according to this classification. What, then, about inventions? What about the patents on them? What about the discoveries? Aren't they scientists? No, it's scientists. So I'm going to support it, and in the first reading, let's support the Law of Paul, but we have to refine it. And finally, Catherine Samuel's law, I think, should also be adopted in the first reading, because there are issues that are not settled in other laws. Here and there we are in one of the laws of Ph.D.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u107	Yes, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u108	So -- now there is no colleague of Sameilik for objective reasons -- but I think this bill, 3185, we can accept it. And those observations of the Scientific and Experimental Authority that say they're special pension systems, which is the pension system for science and science teachers, and they're writing about military, prosecutors, judges, government officials, we can't compare the rates of scientists and government officials, they're just as unmatched as the thumb with other parts of the body, with the head, for example. Therefore, Your Honor, this bill should be adopted in the first reading and entrusted to the committee by all three then to make additions to the same law on scientific and scientific technical activity. Thank you for the opportunity to express yourself. Because we spoke under four laws, one taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u109	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u110	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues! Let us answer one question: Why did the great mighty Soviet Union collapse? There were many reasons. But one of the main reasons was that there was no intellectual value in the Soviet Union. And when there was no adequate material evaluation, remuneration, creative, intellectual, scientific work, soreness went to colleges, soreness went to science. Of course, the Soviet Union has fallen behind and has lost the world of free competition both scientifically and technologically, and has failed economically and ultimately. We're building Ukraine today. We've been building 18 years. But unfortunately, to date, we have only 60 per cent, two thirds of GDP, since the 1990s, what happened when Ukraine was in the Soviet Union. Again, one of the main reasons is that in our country, we repeat the mistake of the Soviet Union, the USSR, that in Ukraine it is not the price of intelligence, not the price of scientific work and so on. Therefore, this policy needs to be fundamentally changed in order for the intellectual capacity of the country to be strengthened so that there is no effluent of intelligence, no brain drain abroad, abroad. For us to prepare here, and someone who's prepared, ready-made creative workers, young scientists have used free of charge for education received in Ukraine, in the West. It is therefore necessary, on the one hand, to stimulate existing scientific personnel, scientific and technological capacities and, on the other hand, to encourage them by working in Ukraine to receive adequate material remuneration in retirement. To see the prospect, he shot his life prospects, and during his creative work, a period of working age, and when he retires. On this basis, I can positively assess, once again, both Anatolia Matvienko and Catherine Samuelk, and support these two bills, and ensure that they are eventually adopted, on second reading, so that they enter into force as soon as possible. As I repeat again, both the Government and the President and Parliament will not return to science by person, there will be no scientific and technological capacity to strengthen the country's intellectual base. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u111	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u112	Thank you. I am grateful to the national MPs of Ukraine who have tabled these bills in order to address the pension issues of our citizens who are subject to the law on scientific and technical activities. But I would ask all the Ukrainian people's deputies, especially the authors of these bills, to somehow make a graduation of those problems that actually exist today in pensioning, in the retirement of these citizens. The question of coexistence, you know, it would make sense for all citizens of Ukraine to have a pension based on the size of the salary paid to the Ukrainian Pension Fund, which is absolutely logical. Now there's a rule of law that stipulates that the maximum wage that pays the premium is 15 per cent of the living minimum. And if you take 744, 15 that's exactly 11,000 dollars, which is the maximum wage that pays the pension fund. And logically, if the employer and the employee pay this amount of contributions to the Pension Fund, he also has a total salary for the main job and for the co-operation. But let's still ask in this category of pensioners, what's the most painful problem for them right now. And the big problem for them is the differentiation of pensions depending on the year of appointment. Why? Because article 24 of the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Scientific and Technological Activities and article 42 of the Ukrainian Law on Public Compulsory State Pension Insurance provides for an increase of 20 per cent from the rate of increase in average wage on 1 March each year. It turns out that if we raise the pensions of the so-called state of the art by 20 percent a year, if we make it to a salary, we have an employee, a science teacher, or a scientist who retired five years ago, he'll have a pension twice as low as that of the science worker who gets it today, coming out of today's salary. This is a question that we need to settle. We need to move at such a pace that every year we upgrade pensions by 100 percent of the rate of increase in the average monthly wage, that's going to be a solution to the problems. I propose, given what the electoral process is going on, and all of that, we can base the bill on 2243, but no more. Let us, if we prepare for second reading, consider these problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u113	Pavlovsky Andry Mikhailovich. Smushuh Grigori Jefimovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u114	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! Of course, the law that we are considering today is that a number of laws that we consider alternatively must be adopted in the first reading. And in my opinion, it would be possible to adopt Law 2243, as reported by Matthew. At the same time, of course, during the second reading, there are very many valid ones, including those expressed by the deputies during the discussion of this bill, many reasonable suggestions, and this I think is taken into account in the committee's second reading. At the same time, using the opportunity, I want to say. You know, in my opinion, today we don't have a so-called fundamental reform in our country that would affect this whole sector, as we can say, of science that would give us economic growth in the economy of Ukraine. Why? Two examples will literally be cited. I met with the Ambassador of Italy recently, and he says to me, "You know, the national deputy," he called me, "the national MP, what do you do?" We were talking about labour emigration, which, unfortunately, is in Ukraine today. And then there's labour emigration, which they don't trace. These are the young professionals who finish our jobs, track down their agents, their agents, I mean, agents who do recruitment, right? And our young scientists, young scientists or scientists who really have a degree in science, right? They're offered a job. And unfortunately, so many of these young and not quite young people are abroad today. So they don't increase our economic potential, or they don't help us get into our economy, which turns out to be innovative in order for some kind of development to go forward, and they're increasing the possibilities of foreign firms and so on. One more. So he says, the Italian ambassador, "what we are," says, "Italy, will accept after the New Year, will delegate your workers, and you, the national deputy, think about where your highly qualified workers will work with time. They will often work at our home. Because we need literate, powerful, scientific, young professionals, who unfortunately are not enough in Italy." That's one example. Another example. At one meeting, I was at a meeting where the former head of Siemens in Ukraine retired, and he says, "I didn't go to Germany to retire, I'm in Ukraine." - What are you doing in Ukraine? - "I trust your young scientists." - Why? “Because you’re preparing them, you’re teaching them, you’re growing them, so to speak?” The state spends money and then those people work abroad.” And unfortunately, of those five or seven million people who are in labour migration, a large proportion of scientists who are not working for Ukraine. Why? Because in Ukraine, in principle, we are not talking today about fundamental changes in the Academy of Sciences, higher education and so on. And without adopting a comprehensive program of these changes, unfortunately we won't be able to.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u115	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u116	Unfortunately, in my opinion, we will not be able to give a decent pension, a decent job, a decent salary today to those scientists who are essential in Ukraine. In this regard, we need to make a fundamental decision and not make a separate bill that does not affect the overall picture of this phenomenon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u117	Dávimuka's closing statement, Stepan Antonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u118	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! I would still say a few words from the committee about Mrs. Catherine Samuelk's bill, which is the widest, most systematic and includes all those questions of previous bills. I would like to highlight just one very important issue that is being addressed by this bill. You know that in special design offices, especially in the scientific institutions of the field of pension, pensions are paid by the organization itself, the scientific organization. That is, some scientific organizations play the role of the pension fund, and the number of pensioners now far exceeds the number of employees. This leads to the bankruptcy of these organizations. And actually, a colleague of Samuel's here gives a lot of clear sources of funding. First. At the expense of the State budget, payments are made to the scientific staff of all government budgetary and non-budgetary scientific organizations and universities of the third, fourth levels of accreditation, as well as to scientific institutions that are part of the State Register of Scientific Institutions that are supported by the State. And at the expense of the Pension Fund of Ukraine, it pays off non-state academics and universities. That's exactly what's going to take away the problem that's been causing tension in this area for decades. The committee recommends that the bill of Catherine Samuel be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u119	Thank you, Stepan Antonovich. Let's move on to decision-making. The draft Law No. 2243 on Amendments to the Law on Scientific and Technological Activities of Ukraine is put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:46:08]] For 337 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! In reporting the bill, the author suggested that it be approved in general. With only the time of validity to transfer it into effect as of January 1, 2011. Are there any objections to voting in general among Ukraine’s national deputies? Is there a denial? Please, the People's Deputy Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u120	Dear colleagues! I would ask that we, as Ukrainian national deputies, still know the problems that exist today and do not capture any specific issue without balancing the whole system. I want you to listen to me again. The main problem is now that pensions are accounted for, and the size of pensions that are given to science and science and technology, and to science and teaching workers that came out five years ago, it's a matter of modernising pensions. Dear colleagues! We have 90 percent of the scientists now retire, according to the general law. And this law is totally not addressing the problem that today exists in this category of pensioners. Let's prepare it fully for second reading, where we settle both the issue of wage improvement and the issue of pension modernisation, depending on the pace of wage growth, so that people get full and balanced laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u121	Please, the author of the bill, Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u122	Dear Mr. Mikhailo, I understand your very fair warning, but I would like to address all fellow MPs with the following proposal. We can accept this rule as a rule as a law; we accept it because there's a bill -- over the years, it speaks for social guarantees there, including apartments and houses and loans. We'll take it as a base and then we'll work it out. Her law, we can work out this norm that you're talking about. And this norm does it deny what you are talking about in other laws. So if you would agree with that logic, I would ask him to accept it as a law, and on the basis of Mrs. Samuelk's acceptance, then the standard of compatibility will remain only in science and science, and the other standards will be worked out in Mrs. Samuelk's bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u123	Please, the microphone of the MP Papieva.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u124	Dear colleagues, the issue of the total pension from the salary, from which contributions are paid to the pension fund, let's hear it again. Today, one of the workers is a pensioner. Employers, along with their employees, pay 35 percent to the Pension Fund. Please tell me, on average, on arrival at the Pension Fund, 35 percent of the payroll fund, we are now enacting massive laws on 80 percent and 90 percent of the wages. To balance them with a public budget compensation mechanism in the form of subsidies or grants to the Pension Fund, I think that's the way to go. We need to get a little emotional right now, taking into account the fact that now the election is going to run, and everything else, let's still be state people and let's go from state to state, not election.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u125	Dear colleagues, the bill was adopted in the first reading. I ask the committee to prepare him for second reading. The draft Law No. 3001 of the Pavlovski People's Deputy on Amendments to Article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Scientific Engineering is put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:50:47]] For 112 This project is not supported. The draft No. 3185 of the Samojlik People's Deputy on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Scientific Engineering is put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:51:27]] For 287 Decision taken. I'd like the profile committee to prepare for the second reading. The factions? Please, by the factions. Region Party 130, Timoshenko Yulia Block 97, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" 15, communists 27, "Litvina Block" 17, non-fractional - 1. On the grounds of the vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u126	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! I think because the two bills of amendments to one law were supported in the first reading, we would ask the committee of profile not to then produce many laws, to prepare for the second reading as one law, because these are changes to the same law, only to different articles. So it would probably be a good idea for us to go to the committee right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u127	I think the committee agrees because both projects change the same law. Please work and offer us one project to amend this law on science and technology. Dear colleagues, we are currently in the turn to review the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. [[on student self-government issues]] [[1280]] Sadly, the committee did not provide a comparable table. Sadly, the committee did not provide a comparable table. [[B in m in s a l in]] How much can you do? I'm making a remark to the National Deputy of Cosemékin, who's exclaiming completely false things. Here's what's coming. This is what it looks like. [[B in m in s a l in]] What suggestions? What are we going to do with this bill? Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u128	Dear colleagues, I ask everyone to calm down. As co-author of this bill, which we supported in the session room in the first reading, I wanted to ask everyone to consider the bill when we get all the comparative tables. In fact, the committee has considered the bill, but it has not been received before the second reading of the National Deputies today. I just got off the phone with the head of our Legal Department. They're only going to complete their proposals today, they don't have warnings, they have certain editorial regulations that the committee will agree with. So I have every request: to wait for a comparative table and a corresponding decision of the Legal Authority, and to consider it tomorrow or Thursday, as soon as everyone is familiar with the text.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u129	Is there no objection to considering when there's a comparative table? Even if someone has a denial, without a comparative table at least prepared by the apparatus, we cannot consider the matter. So you can deny it further. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Accounting and Financial Reporting in Ukraine is being announced for consideration for inclusion in the agenda of the day session. [[Registration number 5435]] Please identify yourself for inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please vote. [[17:55:09]] For 121 The project is not included in the agenda of the day session. The draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Investigative Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Investigation of Situations and the Causes of Inefficient Governance of State Property in the Agro-Industry Complex is under review. [[Registration number 4773]] Reported by Ukrainian National Deputy Jury Mikola Volodymyrovich. Please. Once again, I am commenting to the national deputy Cosemiakin on the uncensored swearing in the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u130	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! According to the Constitution of Ukraine and the Supreme Council Rules, it is proposed to establish an interim parliamentary commission of inquiry into the circumstances and reasons for the ineffective management of state property in an agro-industrial complex. The need to create this TSK is the following. At the time of independence, Ukraine had a powerful, high-powered, productive agro-industry complex with developed infrastructure. It provided food supplies not only to other republics of the Soviet Union but also to parts of Europe. But the critical potential of the agro-industrial complex, the natural-environmental conditions, the best in the union, the technology and technology, unfortunately, were not used to further the development of agro-industrial production. During the years of independence, most of the objects found, whether owned or controlled, are in decline, are used for private purposes. Today we have a painting with you that is owned by the Ministry of Agriculture and Agriculture, about three hundred enterprises that are considered state property and seals and documents, and statutory documents are owned by the Ministry of Agricultural Policy, but these lands and these assets have long been managed by private structures in violation of existing legislation. This is true of businesses that produced silkworms, and this is what happens to businesses that grew tea roses that grew lavender and other businesses. Today, there are simply violent abuses, more specifically inaction, and in almost all areas of the agro-industrial complex. And the industries today, such as the processing industry, the fish farming, where we had a fishing committee in the early 1990s, in our famous 240 fishing vessels that fished in territorial waters. And when the property and quotas were distributed to the Soviet Union, Ukraine was given an annual quota of over 8 million tons of fish in territorial waters. But the condition is to fish with their ships. Today, there are 13 of 240 ships left. And last week, another ship, estimated $13 million, was sold for $2 million. The same is true in the alcohol industry, and today we need to understand clearly, analyze and understand the fate of our country’s further alcohol industry, or expose it to privatization, and if we leave the state monopoly on the production of alcohol and alcohol, then we need to take radical, urgent measures. The same is true of winemaking, and many more can continue, listing the length of all agro-industrial industries. According to official data, the public sector's weight in agriculture declined to less than 7 percent in 2008, as we had about 35 percent of our agro-industry assets two years ago. And I want to point out that this has not been privatized, it has not been auctioned on auctions that we've always been talking about, the government and the authorities are talking about, it's been a tinted waste.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u131	I'm sorry, Mikola Volodymyrovich, we're continuing our evening plenary session for 15 minutes. I ask, if possible, in a concise manner, that we complete our consideration of the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u132	Thank you. It is proposed to create a temporary commission of inquiry. The head of the Temporary Investigation Commission is proposed to select Rizuk Sergey Mikolaiovich, vice-chairman of Rudchenko Mikolaiovich and the general composition is to be set at the level of 10 national deputies, leaving the representation: one representative of 43 national deputies. At the same time, the work report is set to be heard in plenary session in six months. The Regulatory Committee gave a positive conclusion on the creation of this TSC. Regarding the text of the draft regulation. As we know, the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 10 September 2009 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Temporary Investigation Commissions, the Special Temporary Investigation Commission and the Temporary Special Investigations Commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine” has been declared unconstitutional. [[Number 20]] Therefore, it is necessary to exclude appropriate references from the preamble. Plus from the faction of "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" came the candidature of the National Deputy of Ukraine Polančich Mikhailovich. Also, I would like to ask the BUT faction not to withdraw from the commission and to propose three candidates to the commission. So, taking into account the changes I have made to the text of the draft regulation, I would like to support the establishment of an interim commission of inquiry into the circumstances and causes of the inefficient management of state property in the agro-industry complex. [[I'm saying this for the transcript.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u133	Have a seat, please. Hold on, hold on. There's a question. Please sign up. Sold Deputy Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u134	Kamchatny, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”, Kharkiv region. Well, one more time, I'm asking a rhetorical question to the initiator of this decision. You want to track down all that stuff, abuse and all that stuff with your commission? It was called "The Tea Rose" and so on. This refers to a particular region, you know who it's controlling. The color is white and blue. Please tell me, will you then encounter criticism from your patrons when you reveal the truth of what is happening in territories controlled by your political power? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u135	Thank you, Mr. Kamchatny. I believe that the political beauty in the agro-industrial complex was not present. And he doesn't see himself in the work of the committee. And you know, I'm very pleased to say that you're not a member of our committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u136	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u137	Yuri Carmazin. I carefully read the decree and the explanatory note. I just want to understand, and in what time does the commission have to investigate the circumstances and reasons for the inefficient management of state property in the agro-industrial complex? Starting with Ukraine’s independence, or in what time? That's the first question. And the second question. We still have ineffective use of government property, not just in the APC. Plants, including Russian politicians, are now in pursuit of the full scope of Santa Claus. In the territory of the sovereign independent Ukraine in the subjugation of the Security Service, with the approval of the Attorney General's Office, I repeat, politicians of the Russian Federation's highest level, including. We still have these things in the industrial defense complex today. Do you not consider it possible that the commission should simply be called “For reasons of ineffective government ownership”? And it meant that we did some inventory.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u138	Thank you. I think if we take the commission's work so wide, we'll definitely lose it. And today, the question is no longer the main task of the committee -- it's the analysis and the recommendations, how to end up with the alcohol industry, how to be with the fish committee today, and how to get on with it. Because today we see, and the monopoly is, and there is no further movement. And every year, five or six liquor factories disappear. We're going to have the same thing that we have today with the sugar industry: out of 200 factories today, 52 factories worked and sugar deficits got in this current year, over 400,000 tons of sugar will have to be imported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u139	The national deputy Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u140	Vladimir Yavorowski, 100 constituency. Dear reporter, distinguished reporter, distinguished reporter! With good intentions, you know where the road goes. I'm thinking, of course, what you're swinging at today is a colossal job, it's such a piece of work all over Ukraine. It's not some point-blank event. Everywhere you go, there are these violations. As soon as I'm from Kirovgrad, the Kirovgrad juice extract factory of the state releases the vodka of Antony's Artemis from the left alcohol. He doesn't actually pay a penny to the budget. So I immediately ask a question. I generally support your idea, that's a good idea, but 10 people's deputies, and I wasn't alone and not two or three times members of the commission. We know how the commissions work. Well, you're showing that 10 people's deputies have to, within a period of two or three months, investigate the colossal problems that there is. But you yourself have called it: both fish farming, and winemaking, and the same industry, and the liquor industry. Where did it all go? How did it go, do you imagine? I'm afraid it's going to be a simple bride and that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u141	Mr. Yavorowski, thank you for asking. Of course, with your experience, I am a little bit. But I don't think we should be pessimists, and we have to work. If we do not do so, after six months we will again find that the property is hiding, hiding, and disappearing.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u142	People's MP Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u143	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine." I have two questions for the reporter. First. So what commission do you propose to create -- the commission of inquiry or the commission of analysis of the situation and the making of recommendations? I would like to point out that this is the task of two different types of commission: first, the investigator, and second, the special. The second question is, I listened very carefully to your speech, which, unfortunately, you did not finish, and I thought you were already speaking with the committee's conclusions. You already know where it was, where it was wrong. By the way, this comes from the name of the commission, which says "investigation of circumstances and reasons". And the facts are already in place? And I'm asking, who's in charge of these facts? It seems to me that the beginning of the commission's work, which in advance demonstrates itself to be biased, will no longer be an investigation, it will be a medieval Inquisition. Perhaps you need to change your instructions, and you might not need to do so, but a person who is more prone to objective analysis and then making recommendations?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u144	Thank you. The Commission is called the “Commission on the Investigation of Situations and Causes of Inefficient Management of State Property in the Agribusiness Complex”. I. and about the conclusions. You know that I'm the head of the committee, I'm not a member of the committee, and I'm not the head of the commission, and there's not going to be any prejudice, and when the agrarians work on this committee and on the committee make conclusions and proposals it's going to be effective enough. And the facts that he sounded, they've already made repeated observations and were in the decisions of the agro-industry department's colleagues, were in the Cabinet of Ministers and the efficiency of none. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u145	National Deputy Gordienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u146	Please give my word to my colleague Zibank.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u147	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear reporter, I want to ask myself and you, why are we artificially impoverished by the legislative process? That's what I'm talking about. For nothing, we're setting up commissions. Indeed, the question is quite important and relevant in itself, perhaps to create a commission on this point, but we do have professional committees that have control functions, including control functions. So why do we take the authority of the profile committees and create the appropriate committees? And the second question. On behalf of the faction, I want to say that the faction of the Company of Ukraine did not make an offer to include the Perestenko Maria Volodymyrna. So I want to make it clear, who is this candidate, and on what grounds?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u148	Thank you. Perestenko was personally represented by the leader of your faction, Simonenko, personally. That's the first one. Secondly, I agree that today if committees worked effectively and had. They have authority on the papers, but today we see that one committee is unable to do this work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u149	Smithuh Grigori Yudkomovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u150	Ladies and gentlemen, I personally consider that, given the state of our agriculture in the agricultural sector today, such a commission is needed. And if there's an initiative about creating it and wanting to work, it's only good because it's not going to blame a particular person, we're not investigating specific facts, we're talking about a general situation that will help us at least discuss some issues here fundamentally. That's the first question. As far as the facts are concerned, I propose to some of the people's deputies not to be here, but to go through our villages -- and there will be all the facts: farmers are broke, businesses are still standing. And there will be facts that testify to this economy, which is now governed by some political powers. I have a question. Mikola Volodymyrovich, next to you. Please tell me, will it be an object of research for the unbiased use of land and systems throughout the Agrarian Academy of Sciences, which includes a very large area of our land, a better arrangement? That's the first one. And whether there will be a study of the destruction of the irrigation system, which is basically about three and a half.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u151	Thank you. We will certainly consider the issue of the irrigation system in the light of the commission’s work. Why? Because today there were 5 million acres [5 million ha] of agricultural land under irrigation systems in our country. I'll tell you what. In South Korea, the entire agricultural land is 1 million acres [1,200 ha]. And now virtually all the irrigation system is being destroyed. What does this talk about? What efficiency, both these lands, are degraded, and they will be removed from agriculture. It's about the Agrarian Academy of Sciences. Of course, we're going to study the questions there, because at the Agrarian Academy today, about a million hectares of agricultural land are being used to some extent ineffectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u152	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss? There is a need to discuss, then the discussion will be tomorrow. Shall we discuss it? I'm asking if there's a need. If there is no need, we can make decisions. If necessary, we will discuss tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-22-m1.u153	If. Vote? There is a need for Yuri Anatoliovich. Dear colleagues, I can't limit the MP's right of discussion. Tomorrow we will begin the morning plenary session with discussion and decision-making. I declare the evening plenary session closed.
