ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u1	Dear National Deputies! Please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:01:29]] [[Registration of Ukrainian National Deputies]] Cards were registered in the 416 National Deputies Sessional Hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, we continue our consideration of the issues set out in the October 22 schedule. We decided that at 16 hours we would consider the draft Law on the Organization and Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Also on the Conciliation Council, we have agreed, Your Honor, with you that we will hear a speech by the chairman of the Committee, Alexander Sergiyovich Efremov, and we will immediately make a decision, since it is clear to everyone that the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are being normalized in connection with the events taking place in the Constitutional Court. Is there no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u2	And 3585 is now multiplying the documents. They'll give them away. And then we'll vote. I just did. The point is that there are 131 amendments that need to be made in order to be distributed to you. That's right, isn't it? So, dear fellows, may I have your attention? Get ready for work. May I have your attention, please? I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the bill on the organization and order of activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[16:03:28]] For 316 Decision taken. I would like to ask the chairman of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council, Mr. Alexander Sergiyovich Efremov, to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u3	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The adoption of this draft law is caused by a variety of interpretations of the provisions of article 92, paragraph 21, of Part I of the Constitution of Ukraine, and that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should adopt the Law on the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and by the President of Ukraine's appeal to the Constitutional Court on this matter. [[on the definition of the organization and order of activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine solely by law]] The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine include a draft decree in the agenda of the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call and on the whole. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u4	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues, no objection? I am voting on a proposal by the adoption committee based on the draft Ukrainian Act on the organization and order of activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Registration number 5264]] Please vote. [[16:05:02]] For three hundred Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to adopt a draft law as a whole. No objections? None. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee in the second and in general as a bill of the bill on the organization and order of activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote. [[16:05:43]] For 366 The law is passed. Thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? We now need to include in the agenda and consider referring to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to a number of draft laws relating to amendments to the Constitution. We've arranged this way, your honors, that we'll include ourselves in the agenda, we'll continue to listen. Dear colleagues, I've been framed here, I'm grateful that we're looking at these drafts of the law, and then when we make our decisions, we'll be determined, won't we? That's why it's suggested that we have a discussion of the bill: first we'll listen to the reports from these bills, then we'll listen to the committee's decision on all of the bill's bills to the Committee on Legal Policy, Sergey Grigorovich Mishchenka, and then we'll make statements from factions for up to three minutes, and then we'll go to the vote. [[May I have your attention, please?]] [[Registration number 2722, Registration number 3252, 4177, 4290]] No objections? Thank you. A draft Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 2722]] The rapporteur is Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich, First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u5	Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed a project that was introduced to the Supreme Council of Ukraine more than a year ago. It refers to virtually all chapters of the Basic Law that are not subject to mandatory universal approval. I will stand at just a few of the most important positions of this project, which are represented by 164 people's deputies in Ukraine. members of the faction of the Party of the Regions. The first thing I'd like to say is that this week we've approved a law with you in general that regulates the minimum wage and minimum social standards. We suggest that the Constitution of Ukraine should have a mandatory rule that the wages we have cannot be lower than the officially established subsistence minimum, that if a State determines the minimum that a person should be able to live, it should not be paid less so that he does not remain outside the limits of physical survival. The next position also applies to a sufficiently resonant topic that is discussed long enough and intensively, this is how Ukrainian citizens choose national MPs. We suggest that the Basic Law should establish that the Ukrainian National Deputies are elected on the basis of open lists, that voters should vote for both the political power and the specific candidates for the MPs; that the function of the representative body, not only the legislator in our country, be securely protected and that citizens have a real impact on both the formation of the MP Corps and the decisions that are approved in this session hall. This year’s third position, which has also caused stormy waves in this session hall, refers to Ukraine’s entry into interstate unity. We propose that the Constitution should establish that this is possible only by the decision of the all-U.S. referendum to be appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The fourth position is also widely discussed enough that, unfortunately, there is no single executive power in our country, there is a constant competition between its components, making it impossible for effective government. We propose that the entire government, the entire Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, be appointed by the Supreme Council for the submission of a coalition of parliamentary factions that will be formed in Parliament, beginning with the Prime Minister, and that all members of the government be appointed by the Supreme Council for the appointment of the Prime Minister of Ukraine without exception. At the same time, we suggest that, instead of government administrations in the fields, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine be formed. End this discussion as to how many executive powers Ukraine needs. One effective executive authority is needed. In addition, we suggest that the constitutional provision of local self-government should be addressed so that all the local boards of Ukraine will receive their executive committees. District government administrations are to be eliminated, and representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are to appear on the site of district government administrations. At the same time, the full resolution of decisions on matters of local importance and regional concern must go to local authorities. Government representations should ensure coordination of the activities of the territorial executive authorities and exercise control functions. I hope that this is also an understandable approach, which has been widely discussed and supported by everyone in this session hall and mostly by the majority of the Ukrainian political forces who have put out their programming goals during the election campaigns. We also propose the possibility of uniting into one local community of cities, villages, and villages. Now we have this opportunity, this right just for villages. But there are so many examples in the state of Ukraine where, in fact, there are villages and villages within the city. Well, let's say in Kiev, where we're with you right now, let's say there's a village called Desert Water, there's a village called Juliana and others. That is, there are such problems in other cities. To be a constitutional opportunity to form a single territorial community. In addition, we propose to remove today's, let's say, differences regarding the term of office of local councils and village heads. [[of the village]] Since a valid editorial foresees the election of local council members for five years to elect the heads of villages, villages, and cities for five years too. And the last position I'd like to pay attention to is the judicial system. We suggest that Ukrainian citizens be given the right to choose judges of all levels for five years. This proposal may certainly be controversial, but if you look today at our judicial system, which provides for professional appointment by special organs and selection by the country’s higher representative body and look at the real situation in the judicial system, you can consider whether this system is working effectively today. I propose that today we adopt a decision and allow us to start implementing these proposals into the Basic Law of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u6	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, we are now going to the report on the draft Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine. [[on ensuring the realization of the rights of the territorial community]] The reporter is Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich as well. And we agreed that we'd listen to everyone right now, and then in all the bills, your report would be.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u7	Dear colleagues, this is the next project. You and I have already adopted a decision on Tuesday on one of the projects that was presented concerning the immunity of officials who have the right to make decisions on behalf of the country. This problem is also present in the project that I reported before. This project also refers to a particular problem – the problems of local self-government. Realizing that there might be, let's say, some failure to take a separate approach to the big project that you're offered, we've deliberately isolated in two separate projects the point of things that have been perceived by all political forces. As far as immunity is concerned, we've already decided. And secondly, in Ukraine, we provide real local self-government at the constitutional level. [[What I told you in the previous project.]] This is the elimination of public administrations in general; the establishment of a Cabinet of Ministers with coordination and control functions in the areas of representation; all boards of executive committees, in areas and areas where they are not now; the selection of heads for 5 years of villages, villages and cities and the possibility of creating territorial communities in different locations: the city, the village and the village. That's the whole point of the second short project, which I hope will find your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u8	Thank you. Please sit, Alexander Volodymyrovich. And now, honourable colleagues, the draft Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine. [[on the terms of office of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, rural and urban heads]] [[Registration number 4177]] Reporter – Ukrainian National Deputy Podgorny Sergey Petrovich, please Sergey Petrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u9	Honorable Predestination! Dear National Deputies! The Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Ukrainian Act “On Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine”. [[No. 2222-4 of December 8, 2004]] And this law, in particular, changed part of the first article of article 141 of the Basic Law of Ukraine and established that the deputies of rural, rural, urban, district, district council are to be elected for a term of five years. Part two of article 141 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which establishes that rural, rural, and urban heads are chosen by the territorial communities for a term of four years. According to the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the amendments approved on 13 March 2009 by the Act of Ukraine “On the Approval of Amendments to Article 22 of the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea concerning the term of office of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea” are five years. This difference in the terms of the credentials of the representative body of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea of the local councils and heads of the territorial communities is not in line with the logic of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine and may lead to a balance in the work of all local governments. In addition, holding the election of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils, often with the election of rural, rural, and urban heads, will lead to a significant increase in expenditures from the State budget of Ukraine. The issue of the time frame for the local elections was further complicated after the Constitutional Court’s decision on the terms of office of rural, rural, urban, and local councillors who were elected on an out-of-order basis. This decision establishes that the term of office of the village, village, city, local councillors who were elected in an out - of - turn election is four and five years, respectively. Such an approach will lead to an even greater balance between the entire system of local self - government, the disagreements of many norms, and the regulations of legislation in force in the field of local self - government. Then, questions about the terms of office of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea of local councils and rural, village, city heads need legislative harmonization. The bill proposes to amend part one of article 136 and part one of article 141 of the Constitution of Ukraine regarding the establishment of a five - year term of office of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, village, city heads, elected, stressed, in the next election. [[No. 4177]] The proposed changes do not require amendments to other legislative acts. The adoption of this law does not require the allocation of additional funds from the state budget. The adoption of the proposed amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine will allow for the harmonization of the terms of office of the representative body of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils, rural, rural, urban heads and will facilitate the legislative provision of conditions for the coordinated and effective functioning of local self-government bodies, which will be elected in the next election of the deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, members of the local councils, the successive elections of the rural, rural and urban heads. I make it conditionally clear that it's another election. The adoption of this law will lead to order again. Those who are elected in the next election will be authorized for five years, those who will be elected in the next election will be authorized in the next election. If we don't do that today, given that we've had about 800 consecutive elections over the last three years, we're going to have an imbalance, we're going to have a just-just legal vachanal. No one will know when the elections will be held in which village, village, city council. What's more, it needs a significant increase in the apparatus, as in the Supreme Council, because it needs to be traced and tracked in places. Moreover, it was thought that this law, if any, could be enforced, would be for the former ones only. In my opinion, paragraph 3.2 of the Constitutional Court stated in paragraph 4 that exceptions to constitutional provisions that provide for the exercise of powers by the representative bodies during the period established by them can only be established by making appropriate changes to the Basic Law of Ukraine, which is consistent with the legal position of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, as set out in the decision of 30 October 97. Thank you. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u10	Yes, Sergey Petrovich, thank you. Dear colleagues, now draft Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine. [[new editor]] [[Registration number 4290]] The rapporteur is the Deputy Head of the Ukrainian Presidential Secretariat, Ms. Ivanovna Stavniychuk. Please, Marina Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u11	The Honorable Head of the Supreme Council! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The President of Ukraine introduced a draft Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine on 31 March 2009 to Parliament. The project is intended to amend the Constitution of Ukraine, which should be comprehensive, meaningful and be implemented through the adoption of the Basic Law in a new order established by the Constitution of Ukraine. The basic situation is this. It is suggested in the preamble that the Ukrainian people are the creator of the Constitution. Considering that the preamble is an integral part of the Basic Law of the State, it is considered appropriate to complement the list of socio-political orientations defined in it by the positions related to strengthening Ukraine's constituency, the establishment of the geopolitical position of the Ukrainian State as part of the European community. As a result of the social and legal character of the Ukrainian state, it is considered possible to declare a constitutional objective such as the establishment of social justice. Chapter 1 of the Principles of the Constitutional System proposes to lay out, as a founding member, the status of the sovereignty of Ukraine, the unitary form of the state system, the general principles of its territorial system, the administrative and territorial division that predominate the principles of unity and the integrity of Ukraine. The project has substantially refined and complemented the fundamental characteristics of local self-government and moved its position to chapter one. Taking into account the need for further development and development of civil society institutions, it is envisaged to establish its relations with the State, including the State’s promotion and development of civil society. In a separate article, laid out by the founders of a free society of guarantees and freedom of political activity, including that violence cannot be a means of promoting political interests, the activities of political parties are based on free competition, respect for democratic values, and the right to opposing activity is recognized in Ukraine. The insufficient level and validation of human and civil rights and freedoms, their legal guarantees, the declarative nature of some of the provisions of the second valid Constitution of Ukraine also need to be optimized accordingly. Thus, most articles of this chapter have been clarified and added. The content of the section “National will to ensure the principle of national sovereignty, which is particularly the legal basis of the peoples of the world. In order to remove gaps in the constitutional regulation of the institutions of direct democracy, in particular, the principles of the exercise of electoral rights and the right to participate in the referendum have been clarified, the scope of active and passive electoral rights in national and local elections. It is also proposed that new institutions of the National Legislative Initiative and the Institute of the Local Initiative be introduced. The round of questions on which referendums are mandatory and on which referendums are not allowed at all. In order to ensure stability of work, to improve the quality of legislative activity, to avoid over-politicism, and to present the interests of the regions, it is proposed to establish a European Parliament – the National Assembly – which will bring together political and territorial representation. The National Assembly consists of two chambers: the Chamber of Deputies, which is the body of political representation of the people, and the Senate. In addition to the legislative function of the Chamber of Deputies, responsibility rests on the formation and control of the Government, as well as on monitoring the implementation of the State Budget of Ukraine. [[lower chamber]] Failure to appoint and approve a government has resulted in the dissolution of the House of Lower Parliament and its term elections. The Senate appoints the election of the President of Ukraine, the election of the deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the deputies of the district, the city of Kiev, the district councils, the councils of the communities, the heads of the communities. The Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crime has suspended, according to the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crime for having reached the conclusion of the Constitutional Court that it violated the Constitution of District, District Councils, Councils of Communities, Heads of Communities on the basis of the Constitution. The President's Senate approves his decision regarding the defence and security of the state, and also decides on other issues, including the personnel nature, which should not be excessively politicized. This will also be served by the age mark of the Supreme Chamber of Deputies. The institution, the so-called, imperative mandate, is not envisaged at all by a project submitted by the President of Ukraine to Parliament. There is a constitutional limit to the extent to which national MPs are untouchable. A national MP without the consent of the Chamber of Deputies, a senator without the Senate's consent, cannot be detained or arrested. However, the attraction to criminal responsibility is generally carried out until the legal force of the indictment against him is established, which leads to the cessation of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy. The same scope establishes the integrity of the Authorized National Assembly of Ukraine with regard to human rights. The President of Ukraine is the Head of State, who represents the State and ensures its succession, the national direct mandate of the Head of State has been preserved. The President is the guarantor of sovereignty, territorial integrity, the security of the state, the observance of the Constitution, human rights and freedoms and the citizen. The president of Ukraine promotes the interaction of the local authorities. Presidential task: to work with the Senate to guarantee the institutional stability of the state, to determine the priorities of public policy to ensure the civilisation process. The President of Ukraine is taking the lead in the fields of foreign political activity, defence and security. He is the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, head of the National Security Council, entrusted with appropriate authority. As a result of the transition to a two - story parliament, the impeachment will become classical. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Government of Ukraine is a higher body in the system of executive authorities. The mandate of a national deputy as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers is permitted. As a result of the elections, the entire composition of the Cabinet of Ministers is formed in a parliamentary manner by a Chamber of Deputies, which has broad powers to control the government's activities and to which it is responsible. The government is not formed without a program of its activities. The draft Constitution defines the basic powers of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The government is also responsible for providing foreign and domestic policies. The new Constitution provides for the reform of the judiciary. In keeping most of the provisions of the current Constitution of Ukraine, the chapter needs corresponding additions, clarifications, first of all, so that its contents are more fully revealed, such as by institutions such as court and justice. It is considered necessary to make a provision in one section concerning the organization of the judiciary and the prosecution’s organs. The jurisdiction of the courts extends to all legal relations that arise in Ukraine. The courts cannot rule on the exercise of the powers of other authorities or officials other than those determined by law. The system of courts of general jurisdiction in Ukraine is based on the principle of specialization, territoriality and intensity. The Supreme Court of Ukraine is a higher court institution that ensures the same application of the rules by all courts of general jurisdiction. The courts of the case in the system of courts of general jurisdiction are the higher specialized courts. According to the law, the project provides for appeals and local courts. It is determined that the court cannot perform the functions of various institutions in one case. In the communities of legal cases and justice can be carried out by elected peace judges. The requirements for a peace judge, the order of his election, the release, the conditions of his activity are established by law. The judge is appointed on an untimely basis. The judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine and the judges of the higher specialized courts are appointed and dismissed from the Senate for the appointment of the High Council of Justice. The judges of the other courts appoint and dismiss the President of Ukraine for the appointment of the High Council of Justice in accordance with the established law. The heads of the courts, their deputies, are elected to positions of the judges of the relevant court and are dismissed from office by secret ballot. Judges are guaranteed immunity, the extent of which is determined by the Constitution of Ukraine. The judge cannot be arrested or detained without the consent of the Senate. The Supreme Council of Justice issues discharges and terminates the powers of judges in cases provided for in the Constitution, and decides to involve judges in disciplinary responsibility. The Higher Council of Justice consists of 16 members. The meeting of judges appoints 8 members of the High Council of Justice. The President of Ukraine, the Senate, appoints four members of the High Council of Justice from the number of judges in retirement. Members of the High Council of Justice, exercising their powers on a permanent basis, cannot serve as judges, prosecutors, or legal practitioners. The Attorney General shall be appointed President by the Senate and shall be dismissed from office as President on the grounds established by law. It is out of the power of the Public Prosecutor’s Office to ensure that the rights and freedoms of the individual and the citizen are respected, that the laws of the executive authorities, local authorities and their officials are respected, and that the judicial investigation is carried out. The position of the chapter in the Constitution. The draft Constitution of the Constitutional Court was amended in comparison with the current regulation in part of the procedure for the establishment of the Constitutional Court and the determination of the scope of powers. The judge of the Constitutional Court shall be appointed for the submission of the President by a decision of the Senate. So is the Senate. which is approved by at least two thirds, two thirds of the total term of nine years without the right to be appointed. [[completed]] In you go. A constitutional complaint institution is established in comparison with the existing scope of the powers of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court of the Constitutional Complaint of a person shall adopt a decision on the conformity of the Constitution of Ukraine, a law on the basis of which a court of general jurisdiction has passed a final decision concerning constitutional rights and freedoms, if the citizen considers that the law applied in this case is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u12	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u13	I'm finishing, almost the last sections of the draft Constitution. A necessary component of constitutional reform is the real provision of local self - government. The population is the administrative and territorial unit and the population that live in its territory. Other citizens cannot be part of the community. A representative body of local self - government is the council of the community, and members of the community are elected for a term of four years by the people who have the right to vote. Areas, district councils form executive committees. The deputies of these councils are also elected for four years by members of the communities who have the right to vote within the area concerned. Local authorities may be delegated by law to separate powers of executive authorities. The delegation of authority to local authorities is not foreseen. The status of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is generally preserved. Actually, this is the basic position of President Viktor Yushchenk's draft Constitution. The adoption and approval of the bill in this paper will ensure the system, completeness, clarity, irrefutable constitutional regulation of social relations, the gradual application of changes, the constitutional provisions of social relations are provided for Transitional positions. All of this will have a favourable legal effect on the subjects of the relevant legal relationship. The implementation of the bill will not directly affect the spending, income, of the State budget on local budgets. Clearly, the explanatory note was about 2009. Today it is probably the next year of the State Budget Act of Ukraine. Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm done.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u14	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Head of committee Mishchenko Sergey Grigorovich. Please take the decision of the Legal Policy Committee on these bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u15	Honorable Presidium, Honourable People's Deputies, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine! Indeed, the Committee on Legal Policy has considered all four bills, but I will divide my report into two parts. Part one: this concerns the bills 2722, 3252, 4177, which were reported by our colleagues, Lavrinović and Podgorny. Here the matter in the committee’s decision was clear that the committee recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine include in the agenda of the fifth session of the sixth vocation these bills for reasons that the whole procedure for referral to the Supreme Council and the committee was carried out. To chapter one, “General Principles, ” to chapter three,“ Elections. ” The referendum" and the 13th amendment to the Constitution of Ukraine are unchanged in these bills. Clearly, then, they do not require an all - Ukrainian referendum. So I ask that these three bills be included in the agenda and sent to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to give its opinion on constitutionality. Now for Bill 4290. First of all, it sounds like this is a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine and in paws, a new edition. That is, the author of the bill, the President, indicates in his title that these are changes to the Constitution, first and foremost. But unfortunately, I think that those members of the President's Secretariat who were preparing this bill did not understand in chapter 13 of the Constitution and disrupted the procedure for sending this bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Why? Because this bill, the decision on this bill was to be made, including in the referendum, because the changes are related to both Chapters I and Chapter III and Chapter XIII. I mean, it's a completely different way of adopting changes to the Constitution. If other sections of the Constitution are approved in the order that we note, that is, referring to the Constitutional Court, prior approval and then in the next session we accept 300 votes, then chapters 1, 3 and 13 should still be voted on in the referendum. So order is completely broken, and we are in the 13th chapter of the Constitution and the Supreme Council Rules require that these be two different bills. As far as these three chapters are concerned, they should be presented separately, because the order of their adoption — one, all of them — is still a separate bill, or binding bills. This is our 143. The regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So it is clear that in such a way it cannot be sent to the Constitutional Court, it must be sent to the President for further elaboration, and let him comply with all the procedural rules and send us this bill again. As far as I'm concerned. As for the question of the bill itself, I will not go into such details as this has just been done by the previous reporter, but I will mention one norm. This is what you see on the television screens as advocated by the President of the removal of the parliamentary immunity from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and that's what the President is talking about at every turn. That's why I'm opening his bill. Article 86. I'm just going to read two articles. Your attention. Article 86. The general composition of the Senate includes senators, who become permanent after the end of the term of office of the presidents of Ukraine. We now read 91 articles of the Constitution, the same Constitution: “A national MP without the consent of the Chamber of Deputies, a senator without the consent of the Senate cannot be detained or arrested.” [[That's the president who's going to choose for himself.]] So when does the President cheat on the television screen or when his lawyers let him sign what he never reads in his life and signs and advertises to us all over the country? Therefore, national MPs, determine with this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u16	Honorable national deputies, the report and the reports are made. It's all clear. We need to decide how to vote on the decision-making process. The drafters of the bill don't insist on a closing word? Marina Ivanovna Stavniczuk from the President, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u17	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! [[Do you hear me, distinguished national MPs?]] With regard to the procedure for consideration in the Supreme Council of the relevant draft Constitution, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the New Drafting, I would like to remind you that over the last two years, some 40 laws have been passed in the same way. Moreover, when it comes to the constitutional procedure for making changes provided for in chapter XIII of the Constitution. The project proposed by the President envisions a comprehensive and systematic update of the Constitution of Ukraine. I remind you that the Constitution of the Court of Ukraine in its own time, in an appropriate decision on amendments and additions to the Constitution of Ukraine in the case of amendments and additions to the Constitution of Ukraine on the initiative of the Ukrainian National Deputies, stated in Case 2B 2002 of 11 July 2000 that it left without consideration the relevant proposals for the Constitution of the Ukrainian People's Deputies precisely because they had a complex and systematic character, but were not presented in a single bill. The honourable Ukrainian national deputies, regardless of how they are to be considered in Parliament, will be put to the referendum after the decision of the Parliament on the draft tabled by the Constitution. President of Ukraine. I ask you to refer to the Constitutional Court in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine. The President of Ukraine, as part of the process of amending and supplementing the Constitution of Ukraine, has not violated constitutional provisions. Thus, this project has every reason to be sent to the Constitutional Court for appropriate conclusions. Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u18	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over, let's get to the vote now. Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, I'm sorry, I'm in a hurry. We agreed on a faction of the performance. Please. From the faction of the Company of Ukraine, who will be speaking? Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. Please identify yourself from the faction of the Party of Regions. Then from the faction of the Lithuanian Block. Ivan Grigorovich will be speaking. Please identify yourself as Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u19	Dear colleagues, I'm very peaceful right now, so I'm going to make an uncritical statement on the bills that we're currently discussing. The only thing that's too bad is that in a very serious matter like making changes to the Constitution, we're looking at a situation like this, at a time when, unfortunately, they're not in time, sorry about the tautology. Everyone has tried and watched in those bills that are being passed, comes out of their own perspective, out of their own interests, or out of their dealings with someone who was on time yesterday. They're different today. I'm very sorry, I remind you, dear colleagues, that since the beginning of this sixth vocation chamber, we have constantly asked the representatives of some factions, including our own, about the need to create a special parliamentary group in preparation for a single harmonized bill. You and I, unfortunately, couldn't create it. This idea was used by the President, and he created an advisory National Council that ordered him to live long. Each of the bills has something positive, but in general it does not clearly solve, unfortunately, the urgent problems in society that society demands and changes to the Constitution that should be adopted. When it comes to the main project, because the only solid, whole draft of amendments to the Constitution is the President's bill, it can be described in one phrase, there is an effort from the parliamentary-presidential republic to move to the presidential-Senate Republic, which is the essence of this bill. Whoever read this bill understands what it is. When it comes to changes in the draft laws reported by counterpart Lavrinovich, there are good grains primarily for local authorities. There is no doubt that something must be done with them, for the two - power that still exists cannot be sustained. Just like we can't stand the proposal that the party that won the largest number of votes in the parliamentary elections, for example, has the largest 15 votes, all 226 seats in the parliament are given to that party. And so on and so forth. There is no doubt that the project relating to the change in election terms is a political bribe, was an attempt to give political bribes. So, dear colleagues, I suggest you forget about these bills and really start a job.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u20	Let me finish, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u21	And really, start working with all the branches of power to create a serious document, a new constitution that would really come out of reality. And the last. Our faction deeply regrets that we have failed to collect the necessary 150 signatures under our draft Constitution, the essence of which is to abolish the presidency and hand over power to the Supreme Council. Too bad she wasn't supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u22	Olena Lukas, faction of the Party of Regions, then Oleg Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u23	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, today you are invited to consider and vote in favour of the 4 bills amending the Constitution. It's about our bill first. The first is different from everything else, and from all the declarations, what it is. This is a comprehensive bill on changes to the Constitution, which can be summed up in two words: it regulates and enhances the rights of regions and protects and regulates the protection of the rights of citizens, the rights of regions and the rights of citizens. This is the main difference between our bill and everyone else. It addresses many issues: social protection, open lists, electoral system on them, judicial reform. Each of you and each of the voters can consult the Regional Party and the Supreme Council website on this bill. Unfortunately, we understand that our colleagues from other factions will not support this bill solely on political grounds. So I want to talk about our second bill and ask you all to support it, number 3252, and it only concerns the decentralization of power. It provides for the elimination of local public administrations, which will be formed by local councils, and the decision of the local authority can only be suspended if such suspensions are sent to the court at the same time. The time-limits for the election of local councils and mayors for five years are limited to those of the Cabinet of Ministers. It's a total decentralization of power. In this regard, I have read about your electoral programmes, the Company of Ukraine is called the People's Government, the NU-NS writes in its programme on the self-sufficiency of the territorial communities, a very good programme called the Block of Lithuania, in which the second, third page is fully dedicated to the rights of the communities. And most of all, I like the electoral programme "Julia Timoshenko" and it says, "the local self-governance of executive power." So that's exactly what this is about and that's all we're talking about in our project. [[3252]] Now in the vote, we will see who is responsible for the real decentralization of power and who is responsible for the empowerment of the executive power of the communities on paper. Now there are two more bills. BUIT proposes to change the time frame for local council elections. Our bill has this rule, so they're absorbing your bill. Once again, I invite you to vote in favour of him, and then to speak in the regions, not for the Mystical Budget Code, but for constitutional changes. What about the President's Constitution? I won't criticize her. I will tell you that the document itself, the decision of the Venice Commission on it contains 137 comments on the draft and considers it inadmissible. But most importantly, the Venice Commission says that this project does not solve acute painful problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u24	Please continue your time.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u25	does not address the acute and painful problems of the dualism of the executive power, the political confrontation between the President, the Kabmin and the Parliament, which is today in Ukraine. This is referred to in the President's Constitution, so let us forget this document forever. And now that we have no political consensus on more than one project, let us address at least a small part of the problems of our regions, which depend on the constant struggles on the Caves, let us give them hope of decentralization of power. I invite everyone to vote in favour of our bill 3252. Thank you. ( For [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u26	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the Lithuanian Block. Mikola Tomenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u27	Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! You know, I didn't name any names of the authors of these changes to the Constitution, and you know why? I'll call the numbers if I have to and enough time. Because I think it's very sad and very unconstructive when changes to the Constitution are seen as part of an election campaign. In fact, we also think of Block of Lithuania as extremely serious things that shouldn't depend on how a person wants to take a stand in 2-3 or even six months before the presidential election. We come from the fact that changes to the Constitution should be of a professional and scientific nature, because for us, you can view it as an image, but it obviously corresponds to reality. Changes to the Constitution and in general the Constitution are “road traffic rules” in politics. And where there are “road traffic rules”, there is absolutely simple to post: “red light – you cannot pass”, “green light – you can pass”. And so if you look at all of this, under the present condition of the degradation of the government system, and we are now witnesses of it, all of these things are not being done. It is as if “road traffic rules” are being violated by all those who are to be held accountable for not violating them and then agree on how to deal with DAICHNIK, how not to take responsibility for it. So in a meaningful way, it doesn't even matter what's written here. Once again, it's very sad that changes to the Constitution are seen as part of electoral technology, and some even at the expense of the state. And I'm very uncomfortable when propaganda and advocacy for changes to the Constitution take place, including at the expense of the state. And the last moment. I think we have to act logically now, even with what I have said. There are certain drafts of the Constitution, they're really wrong, each in its own way, although each one has a plus. For example, in one project, without a name, you see 4290, I want to say there is such a moment that the president can dissolve the lower room at any time, without any motivation, without any argument, or in which case, if he wants to, then he'll dissolve. God be with him! Parliament doesn't love us. But what does that mean? This means that the lower chamber, as it is there in the deputies, forms a government and thus the president can at any time send this government, I will not say how many letters. And so there is a situation where, as if there were a executive branch of power and a person in charge of the executive branch of power, the government and the government are completely suspended under the entanglements or conditions of a particular president. Do you understand the logic? Throwing away, releasing, for no reason whatsoever, the Lower House.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u28	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u29	The lower chamber, which is why the government is being expelled. So now tell me, this is the division between branches of power, this is what, or Montesquie, or where does it work, where does it work? And the last moment, dear colleagues. It seems to me that this should be sent to the Constitutional Court as an inadequacy to 157, 158 articles, or that does not conflict with national integrity, sovereignty, or whether they fall under it. And the next result is you understand. As long as there is no real change to the Constitution, and not to electoral technology, no one needs such changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u30	Thank you. Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko, Deputy Head of the Supreme Council Then Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u31	Dear colleagues, I will focus on two, in fact, new texts of the Constitution, because the proposal of my colleagues from the BUT faction concerns a particular problem that is being debated in the local self-government system, and it is obvious to the authors that it needs to be in place, to ensure stability even a year after the presidential election campaign, to hold elections in 2011. With regard to the new actual texts of the Constitution, I wanted to say more. And that's more important because today it's supposed to be a public discussion of these projects. So my first warning. Such a responsible and serious matter as the Constitution of Ukraine cannot be written by the Secretariat of the President or even by an influential political party such as the Party of the Regions. The new constitution should be written as an agreed compromise with an absolute majority of political players, society and experts, because it is quite obvious that this will not be supported even in the first stage. The second is about the general ideas of the Party of Regions. A party of regions actually offered a parliamentary model. It has pluses and minuses. And I wanted to point out that there are a lot of interesting points in this project. Instead, we cannot support an ideological moment. In fact, for the first time, bilingualism is legalized, for it is intended to be conducted in two languages. There is a simplified procedure for holding a referendum that can be manipulated in terms of geopolitical and other things that we cannot accept. And of course there is a dangerous, so-called, bonus voting system. We were discussing a two-track option when in the second round, one party could win 226 votes, but in the first round, it was extremely dangerous. Let's say we had a party first in the election -- 20 percent. In a version of the Party of Regions, it automatically raises 226 votes, which is clearly non-democratic. That's right. That's why we can't support this bill. As far as the President's bill is concerned. This is a paradox, because television and the press are discussing a project that doesn't match the project that we all get and discuss. My colleague Mishchenko pointed out the parliamentary immunity that is contained here, no one has discussed that we will have no administrative division within five years, perhaps 10 areas or 10 lands, which comes out of this law because some villages, villages, and within five years change the number of areas. I wonder, then, when the governors collect signatures, they know that some areas will not be in or out of five years. Of course, no less dangerous things have to do with the two - room parliament. What is a bicameral parliament in Ukraine? We have a country today -- it's not a formal oligarchy, it's now going to be formalized by senators, the oligarchs are going to be senators, and then they're going to sit, they're going to come, they're going to come, they're going to disagree or they're going to disagree with our work. Vladimir Mikhailovich, if you could give me 30 seconds, I'll be there.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u32	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u33	That's why we have, you know, in the political life of the Chambers there's enough, two more if we create, trouble will come to the country. So by definition, a bicameral parliament is a danger to a unitary country and it is absolutely unnatural for our history and for our political tradition. Everything that the President's Secretariat has proposed in the judicial system is the same, because in fact, all the judiciary is formed by the President at the request of the High Council of Justice. The Attorney General himself is hereby dismissed and appointed by the Senate. In fact, it's not just the President's Republic, we're going to hand over the entire system of law enforcement and the judicial system to the President with this project. So, yeah, it's actually, I don't know, I'm going to come up with a form of government for this model, well it's definitely not a presidential model, it's some absolute, element of an absolute monarchy with a presidential model. That's why we can't support these two bills. And once again, in order to adopt the optimal Constitution, it must be done as follows: society must order a draft Constitution, the experts must prepare it, the politicians must agree on it in the Supreme Council, and the people must approve it. Such a constitution would be a constitution for the people. These constitutions that are proposed are constitutions for specific political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u34	Ruslan Knazevitch, faction of our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u35	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! You know, an hour ago we passed a very interesting law on how to organize the activities of the Supreme Council. He, I remind you, has in principle accepted that the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council should define one of those instruments, which must nevertheless be an internal instrument of the legal and regulatory nature of the under-law, not the legal one, as the Constitutional Court has repeatedly told us. So we may not listen to the Constitutional Court and feel that this should be the case, let us at least bring our Rules into line with the Constitution. There is 159 articles of the Constitution, which states that bills have the right to be considered in Parliament if they have passed the conclusion of the Constitutional Court. It is stated in the Rules that we consider whether to send or not, to discuss, to make political decisions. This is forbidden by the Constitution. Now we're just breaking it. That is why I believe that we must now carry out our technological mission, as provided for by the Constitution, and send all bills to the Constitutional Court without exception. Why? Because other than the Rules of the Supreme Council, the document does not regulate how the President outside the Parliament can send. Because it's only in the Rules that he does it. From. So that what he sends does not happen will be sent outside the Rules and outside the Parliament. And we don't know what the Constitutional Court is going to say if it's unconstitutional. So let us do our constitutional duty. And let's not talk about these things in fact, because it's not our privilege yet. If even there are unconstitutional things, we will discuss them during the discussion and if they are, indeed, there is, it is your right not to support them. Now it is our duty to correct everything and let the Constitutional Court determine whether they are constitutional or unconstitutional in accordance with article 157, 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. And the fact that we've held them for more than six months, who are we, excuse us, a doctor? And now we're saying, you know, Mr. Undercover's very clever bill. I agree essentially. But, Sergey Petrovich, it's November of the month now. Until he gets to court until he gets back. Whether he will arrive at the nations of the session because he needs 226 in this session. He won't come, and I assure you. And it's a futile vanity that we're just doing right now. Another thing is that you prepared it six months ago. So who, rather than colleagues, did this good work of their own? What's more, yesterday we made decisions, we made elections, and today I think no, we did the wrong thing. Let's still think about how they're going to be continued for a year. Dear colleagues, let's not play politics, let's not abuse our constitutional rights, let's consider the bill, God with it, let's finish the procedure, let's send everyone, without exception, to the Constitutional Court, let them come from there, and let's continue to determine politically how to vote for each of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u36	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. At the same time, let me point out that the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, under which we have considered these bills, have not been repealed. Hence, there were no violations. Another suggestion, obviously, we should send it to the Constitutional Court to remove any political charges, and let the Constitutional Court make the appropriate conclusions. At the same time, such a large number of bills show that we approach the issue from a political point of view. Because it's quite obvious that if we were looking for a coherent compromise that would bring about a society, a people and a perspective, we would have a bill on that. At the same time, I, my distinguished colleagues, offer your attention now to the vote. Please, Adam Martinyuk, microphone. Take down the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u37	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, according to the young and the future our elite is legal, Ruslan spoke absolutely right things except one. That is to say, the Supreme Council has to determine whether there is any prospect in a bill. If the Supreme Council cannot direct him to the Constitutional Court, how will it raise 300 votes? This is one moment. And the second. At that point, the Supreme Council, in order not to give too much work, not to spend public money, because we're going to send, without looking at the Constitutional Court, we're going to give him a job, and then this or another bill has absolutely no perspective. This is one moment. And the other one. Who, then, should direct but not the Supreme Council? Please don't let us go any further. [[(Noise in the hall) (Applause)]] So I propose, indeed, to vote in favour of every bill and to determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u38	Dear colleagues, please calm down! Dear colleagues! Let's go to the vote. I'm putting to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[May I have your attention, please?]] [[Registration number 2722/P]] Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council of Ukraine takes a decision. I'll read it to you: about the inclusion in the agenda of the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the sixth draft amendment to the Constitution of Ukraine and its referral to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. [[2722/P]] In accordance with articles 141, 143 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: First. Put in the order of day five. The sixth session, the fifth session of the Supreme. [[Yes, the sixth?]] Then I'll be right there. I'm sorry. To include in the agenda of the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the sixth call for a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine, submitted by 170 Ukrainian national deputies; [[Registration number 2722]] The other one. Draft law amending the Constitution of Ukraine to refer to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to obtain a conclusion that it complies with the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine ; [[added]] And the third. This decision takes effect on the day of its adoption. This is a project reported by Alexander Lavrinovich. I'm voting on the draft decision with the clarifications that I'm talking about. [[Registration number 2722/P]] Please vote. Take off the vote, please. Take down the vote. Sergei Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u39	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'd like to pay attention, I think there's not exactly a correct reference to the Rules, there's an old edition. In a new edition, they're a little bit different there. Number of articles. Please let the stenographer make it sound like we're talking if that's the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u40	Yes, Adam Martinyuk. I'm asking you, Your Honor, please don't beat up.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u41	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, so that we don't get confused right now, let's take which one. the sessions, and simply “introduce the agenda of the day”. That's it. That's all right. Because it is not excluded that we in this session will have to consider them after we have considered them in the Constitutional Court. Include in the review.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u42	Dear National Deputies! Now we have a fifth session, so it was all right. With regard to the reference to articles of the Rules, I would like to ask that we agree on a work-by-work basis, to write “according to the requirements of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council accepts such a decision”, I read it to you. Registration number 2722. The reporter is Alexander Lavrinovich. Please vote. [[17:09:23]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 171, "Julia Block Timoshenko" – 0, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 1, communists – 0, "Block of Lithuania" – 19, non-fractional – 1. Yeah, let's move on. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you of the proper position of the Supreme Council Rules that a bill not supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine is considered to have been withdrawn from consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Next. May I have your attention, please? I am voting on a draft Supreme Council decision to include in the agenda of the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine and referring it to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. [[Registration number 3252-p]] [[on ensuring the realization of the rights of the territorial community]] This is the registration number, I remind you once again, of the draft law 3252, and the reporter is the national deputy of Ukraine, Alexander Volodymyrovich Lavrinović. I'm putting to the vote a draft order. Please vote. [[17:10:57]] For-191 The decision is not taken, the bill is off-limits. The factions, please. Region Party – 168, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 0, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 2, Communists – 0, “Litvina Block” – 20, “Afterfractional” – 1. This is, dear colleagues, before calling for a technical function to be performed and sent to the Constitutional Court. Yeah, well, I'm saying that it's "for," and I'm just saying that it's "for". Dear colleagues, this is the third bill. Registration number of draft Decree 4177-P: also on the inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine and referring it to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. [[on the terms of office of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, rural and urban heads]] This bill was reported by our colleague Podgorny. I'm betting on a draft ruling. [[Registration number 4177-P]] Please, let's vote. [[17:12:18]] For 196 The bill is off-limits. Now, pay attention! Honorary colleagues, bill, Presidential: to amend the Constitution of Ukraine. [[Registration number 4290]] [[new editor]] But -- pay attention, fellow Members, pay attention! – the committee proposes such a draft decision, and I will read it: “First. To include in the agenda of the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the sixth call for a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine submitted by the President of Ukraine. [[Registration number 4290]] And the second. The bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine, submitted by the President of Ukraine, should be returned to the subject of the legislative initiative. [[Registration number 4290]] So let me ask you, dear fellows: I'll put it to a vote, and you support the vote so that we can do the same. The first proposal is to include the bill in the agenda and to refer it to the Constitutional Court. And if it doesn't, I'll put the second one to the vote. Dear colleagues, in principle, the speakers had a logic that said that we should allow the Constitutional Court to express its views and to withdraw any accusations from the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it was blocking the legislative proposals of the President of Ukraine. That's why I'm putting to the vote a proposal, first, on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft law and referring it to the Constitutional Court. [[Registration number 4290]] Please vote. Please vote. Please vote. [[17:14:14]] For-48 The factions, please. Region Party - 0, "Club of July Timoshenko" - 0, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" - 28, communists - 0, "Club of Lithuania" - 20, non-fractional - 0. Now, your honors, your thoughts, the draft ruling, I'm going to read it again. [[Registration number 4290/p]] First point. To include in the agenda of the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the sixth call for a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine submitted by the President of Ukraine. [[Registration number 4290]] Item two. A bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine, submitted by the President of Ukraine, to return to the subject of the legislative initiative. [[Registration number 4290]] Item three. This decision takes effect on the day of its adoption. I'll bet you a vote. Please vote. [[17:15:21]] For-198 The factions, please. Region Party – 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 144, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense – 34, Communists – 0, Litvina Block – 20, non-fractional – 0. The bill is being withdrawn from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! Next, we had a bill to amend the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Justice (registration number 5144). We agreed that when we consider the changes to the law on the election of the President of Ukraine, we will consider this bill at the same time. So there's a delay, no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u43	Next. The next issue is the Amendment Act adopted on 23.06.2009 with the aim of overcoming the negative effects of the financial crisis. Dear colleagues! Let me read to you that we're not. You have this content, and I will read for the protocol and the transcript: “On June 23, 2009, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts aimed at overcoming the negative effects of the financial crisis.” In accordance with Article 131 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and with the aim of eliminating disagreements and inconsistencies in the adopted law, proposals are made for amendments to the Law on Taxation of Enterprise Income. In article 12, paragraph 12.2.2, the words and figures: “until 1 January 2010” are replaced by the words “until 1 January 2011”. In article 22, paragraph 14, delete the second paragraph. In article 22, paragraph 22.15, the words and figures: “by 31 December 2010” are replaced by the words “by 1 January 2011”. A comparative table is given to you. That's what we're talking about inaccuracies and disagreements. I'll put it to a vote. Take it off the vote. Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u44	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I want to clarify. So the bill that we passed back in June didn't become law until now, not even signed or directed. Is that what I'm saying? As a second or some other reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u45	The point is that this law was passed, along with a number of disagreements, and with, by the way, the adopted law, which the President had already signed, he had entered into force. [[4630]] What's more, I'm informing you, honourable colleagues, that this law also has a number of positions that resound or, more specifically, duplicate the positions of the law that came into effect. [[4630]] But at the same time, the committee insists and asks to vote only inaccuracies, because if you make changes to the law, then this law should be repealed and adopted in a new way, in accordance with the relevant procedure. [[3585]] The Committee states that if the President of Ukraine signs this law, they will propose legislative changes to ensure that we do not duplicate the two laws. No objections? Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u46	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, this has never been done before in the practice of the Supreme Council. In recent times, more than ten bills have been amended in this way because they have not been accepted on a reasonable basis, because they have simply been accepted without prior examination of each one. I would like, if even we, an extraordinary event, to happen, that the bill has been passed for three months, four months more precisely, not signed, not working, nothing, and there are mistakes made to immediately tell us who made the mistakes, how these people were punished and what was done to keep us from making such mistakes. Let us put an end to such matters. This is evidence of a lack of work by the Supreme Council. And the lack of it is that without committees being concluded, without the conclusion of the government, that's why these bills are being passed. I'd like to hear from you, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u47	Thank you. Honorable national MPs can only be punished with one strong thanks. That's the first one. The other one. Dear colleagues, since it was blocked, you know, the work of the Supreme Council for a long time was not possible to consider the relevant changes. And the third. Let's change the Constitution and invite the chairman to adjust the laws. I don't think that's gonna be a problem. It's impossible to do that. So we are forced to make the right decisions today. At the same time, let us also consider the situation of respected colleagues who did not have such a financial, economic crisis when we anxiously seek a way out of the situation, feverishly. And not all of us have been able to make accurate and reliable decisions. But your point is absolutely correct. Paul Zebravsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u48	Respectful colleagues surely need to uphold this law, and it must act as quickly as possible. However, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have enough laws under reduced procedure to enforce system laws. And just like the lack of reason enough, let's say, a superficial attitude towards the adoption of system laws. I'm very much asking you to do a great job of asking that where there are systemic important laws, we don't abuse precisely this kind of short-term discussion and legislative decision-making that actually affects all the factors in the lives of the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues, comments are accepted. At the same time, I ask my colleagues, when a vote is taken, to continue their work day and to consider all the questions that are set by the schedule of meetings for a day or a plenary week. On no occasion did the Supreme Council of Ukraine support such an offer. In all parliaments of the world, there's as much work as it takes. So let's go to a meeting with each other, too. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I am voting on a proposal to clarify the Act amending certain legislation in Ukraine with a view to overcoming the negative effects of the financial crisis. [[Registration number 3585-P]] The essence of the details has been given to you. Please vote. [[17:23:05]] For 380 Decision taken. National MP Arjevetin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u50	Dear colleagues! Thank you very much, you're not even suspicious, you've saved the banking system today, and you've removed a lot of conflicts that have so far been between customers and the banking system. A great bow and a thank you! Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u51	Dear colleagues! I thank my colleague Arjevitin for speaking after we voted. If he had spoken earlier, the decision would not have been taken. Dear colleagues! I was asked by the National MPs to make sure that we did not continue to use different words that could be interpreted arbitrarily as to what was happening in the session room and what was happening among the MPs. I'm just not going to read, I'm telling you what's been given.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u52	I can't! Let us now consider the issues related to the ratification of treaties. I'd like your attention, Your Honor. Where there is no warning for us to make decisions. And if there are warnings, we've discussed it. A draft Act on the Ratification of the Protocol on Liability and Compensation for Damage Caused by Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and their Disposal is under consideration. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Environmental Protection Ivan Dmitrovitch Makarenko. Correspondent is the deputy head of the Committee in foreign affairs, Leonid Alexandrovich Kojar. Taras Cranwell will report. Please, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u53	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich Honorable People's Deputies! The project proposes to ratify the protocol to the Basel Convention on the Control and Disposal of Transboundary Movements of Dangerous Wastes. The Basel Convention is an important element of the international environmental protection and sustainable development system. Ukraine’s active participation in the implementation of this document is organically linked to Ukraine’s already being a member of this convention. Of all the principles of the protocol, the requirements of the protocol correspond to the current legislation of Ukraine. The basis for determining the party that should bear the cost of damages should be the international legal principle: the polluter pays - which works whether the State is party to the Protocol on Liability and Compensation or not. Reparations to the damage done to specific nations are made on the basis of effective international law. The adoption of the protocol allows for speeding up the definition and ensuring adequate compensation for the loss precisely through the use of the procedures of this protocol. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u54	First Deputy Head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Taras Cnerwell. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u55	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered the law on., the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Protocol on Liability and Compensation for Damage resulting from the Transboundary Transport of Dangerous Wastes and their Disposal. We unanimously supported the adoption of this law. Since, in addition to fully normalizing the standards under which we have certain legislators ’ obligations, we need to carry them out with regard to the Basel Convention. But in addition to everything else, this bill is very convenient and needed by Ukraine. We have plenty of examples when dangerous harmful substances have been introduced in Ukraine because of some irresponsible or outright crime, and after that we find ourselves in a hopeless situation where it is impossible to preserve them, to process them, to export them all the more impossible. So today, this project is going to do it. The Ukrainian side is the most interested, obviously, of all the signatories to this convention in order for it to finally be accepted. In this case, all the other committees that have considered it support it, there are no warnings. Only the Rules Committee reiterated its observation that not all documents were properly drafted but did not deny acceptance. No additional financial resources are needed. And so please support and ratify this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u56	Dear colleagues, no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u57	None. Allow me to put to the vote the draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol on Liability and Compensation for Damage resulting from the Trans-border Transport of Dangerous Wastes and their Removal of Acceptance as a whole. Please vote. [[17:28:31]] For 379 The law's approved. The bill was approved as a law. The draft Law on Ratification of the Amendment to Appendix B to the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 0138]] The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Environmental Protection Sergey Viktorovich Rybalka, co-rapporteur Taras Crnowil, First Deputy Head of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u58	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The UN Framework Convention on Climate Change was signed in New York on 9 May 1992. The ultimate goal of this convention is to achieve a stable concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere at a level that prevents dangerous anthropogenic effects on the climate system. Such a level should be reached within the time limits necessary for the natural adaptation of the system to climate change, which will enable it not to become a threat to food production and contribute to further economic growth on a sustainable basis. Thus, the Kyoto Protocol was signed in Kyoto on August 11, 1997. At this time, 177 countries in the world are parties to the Kyoto Protocol. Ukraine ratified the Kyoto Protocol on February 4, 2004, thereby confirming its intention to take the necessary measures to ensure that its total anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions in the carbon dioxide equivalent do not exceed the quantitative obligations set out in Appendix V of the Kyoto Protocol. Today, Appendix “B” to the Kyoto Protocol has 39 countries with quantitative obligations to reduce anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions. But the global nature of climate change requires the widest possible cooperation of all the countries involved in the implementation of the Kyoto Protocol mechanisms to implement the final objective of the convention. The project is proposed to eliminate the Amendment to Appendix B of the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention. Appendix B of the Kyoto Protocol and the inclusion of the Republic of Belarus, giving it the number of commitments to reduce anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions. Ratification of this amendment will allow Belarus to further reduce greenhouse gas emissions and contribute to mitigating the effects of global climate change and achieving the ultimate objective of the convention, which all countries of the world should take precedence over national climate change policies. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u59	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Taras Cranville. The Committee's decision, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u60	Dear fellow national MPs! Our Committee on Foreign Affairs has unanimously supported the ratification of the agreement in question. This is a matter of purely technical circumstances: Belarus joins. She has certain conditions. It assumes this condition for 92 percent of the emissions from the base year 1990. We don't, it doesn't bring any pressure for Ukraine -- tax, budget, or anyone else. In this case, we just support, we find out the fact. But since these documents are supposed to be ratified, additions to such agreements, there is a request to ratify, to support the accession of Belarus to an important international treaty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u61	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to insert the word “Belarus” in Appendix B to the Kyoto Protocol between the lines “Austria” and “Belgium”. Is there no objection to the vote? I am voting on the draft Law on Ratification of the Amendment to Appendix B to the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change as a whole. [[Registration number 0138]] Please vote. [[17:32:34]] For 376 The law is passed. The draft Act on the Ratification of the Additional Protocol to the Geneva Conventions of 12 August 1949 concerning the adoption of an additional distinctive emblem is being announced for consideration. [[Protocol III]] Registration number 0132, as well as the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[character]] [[Registration number 4665]] The rapporteur for these bills is Vice-Minister of Justice Lutkovska Valerija Volodymyrna. The reporter is Taras Cnerwell. Please, about two bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u62	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, honourable national deputies, you have two draft laws to consider. The first relates to the ratification of an additional protocol to the Geneva Convention, which refers to an additional identification emblem. The need to develop this additional protocol is due to the fact that, at the request of some States that are parties to these conventions, the emblem of the international Red Cross and Red Crescent movement was supplemented by an additional emblem called Red Crystal. In view of the intention of ratifying this additional protocol, other legislative acts should be amended accordingly. And accordingly another bill concerns the implementation of this additional protocol into national legislation, in particular the relevant Act, which exists, “On the symbolism of the Red Cross and the Red Crescent”, which will change the name as well as its positions, as well as the relevant provisions of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u63	So you're talking about two bills, right? Please, Taras Blackwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u64	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Red Cross Society was known to have been formed in very serious cooperation with religious institutions and had its own religious subtext. Then, when the Muslim countries began to unite, the Red Crescent was added. Today, however, there is a position that binding this organization on the religious subject itself is, to some extent, incorrect. There are countries that are totally secular, there are religious countries, there are countries where there is Buddhism, there is Krishnaism, whatever, and so a position has been set up to remove this subtext and to allow in those countries where they do not want to use these emblems, which bear religious subtext, to add another variant of the Red Crystal emblem.” This is a technical moment enough. For Ukraine, it has no serious meaning. The committee, having considered at its meeting, decided that since we are parties to the relevant treaty, we would properly and appropriately ratify this change so that we would not be in a position to be in an awkward situation. The committee unanimously supported the Ratification Act. The same is true of scientific expertise and of all the neighbouring committees that support it. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u65	No objection, dear colleagues? None. Please, Adam Martinyuk microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u66	Thank you. Honorable colleagues, on the one hand, seem to understand everything. Please, let's change. But what do they want to change? Now the symbolism of the Red Cross as an organization is the Red Cross and the Red Crescent. We're offered to take the moon.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u67	Add. () [[B in m in s a l in]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u68	What's that? Anything that has to do with red can't be taken away.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u69	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The draft Law on the Ratification of the Additional Protocol to the Geneva Conventions of August 12, 1949 (regarding the adoption of an additional distinctive emblem (Protocol III) (Registration No. 0132) for adoption as a whole. Please vote. [[17:36:59]] For 379 The law is passed. And now, dear colleagues, this is essentially an illogical decision. Draft Law 4665 amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[character]] I am voting on the draft Ukrainian Act ratifying the Additional Protocol to the Geneva Conventions of August 12, 1949, one minute, please. [[concerning the acceptance of an additional distinctive emblem]] [[Protocol III]] [[Registration number.]] Registration number 4665. Please vote. [[17:38:12]] For 353 The law is passed. The draft Law on the Adoption of the Amendment to the Articles of the Agreement of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Economy Zyjenov Mikhailo Aleksandrovich. The reporter is Taras Cnerwell.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u70	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The purpose of the bill is to implement the internal procedures necessary for the adoption of the amendment to the Statute of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. On 30 January 2009, the Board of Governors adopted Resolution No.596, “Increasing the number of votes and participation of developing countries and countries with economies in transition”, which proposed an amendment to the Articles of the Bank Agreement. The amendment provides for the identification of the basic votes of each member by equal distribution among all members 5.55 per cent of the total number of votes of all members of the bank. The adoption of amendments by members of the bank will allow today to increase the main votes for all 186 countries to 484 and accordingly increase the voting rights of smaller shareholders of the bank, most of which are developing countries, and countries with economies in transition due to lower voting rights for larger shares. If three fifths of all countries agree, members who together have at least 85 percent of the total number of votes, the decision will be considered to be acceptable. Since the country is a member of the bank, actively cooperates with the bank, shares a bank’s development support policy, it proposes to support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u71	Thank you. Please, Taras Blackwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u72	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! This law reflects the position of what is being redistributed, the overall quota increases, the number of votes, but there are no additional emissions, additional inputs. Therefore, this law does not entail any expense from the State Budget of Ukraine. In this regard, the Committee on Budgetary Questions does not object to its approval. It is also supported by the Committee on Finance and Banking, supported by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. That's why we can accept it. But the only request is that it be linked to all ratifications: after each ratification, it is noted by the regulatory committee that the accompanying documents are not properly drafted. Therefore, there is a request to the Cabinet of Ministers that the Cabinet Minister meet with the head of the Regulatory Committee to find out about these shortcomings so that we do not have a situation in the future that, after each ratification, there is such a warning. Again with respect to this ratification. It's a technical document, it doesn't pull any more new loads, but if we don't ratify it, our participation in the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development will be suspended. Therefore, the Committee on Foreign Affairs asks you to support the ratification of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u73	Dear colleagues, no objection? Is it? Please, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u74	Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs! I'm 46. I'm sorry, I'll be back in 4665. We didn't discuss it, we didn't ask. Vladimir Mihajlovich, our Red Cross associations are district, city, district financed by charity, not by the State Budget. I never realized the cost of all these district, city, and so poor organizations, they're going to have to change all their stamps, seals, forms that they make. It's either budget or it's budget. Well, how come we've ratified this bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u75	Dear colleagues, there's no need for money. It can be defined either as the Red Cross, or the Red Crescent, or it could just be the Red Crystal. It depends on who chooses. But there's no problem. Taras Chernobyl, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u76	Dear colleagues, the thing is, for us, this law is really, really purely technical, because every country can define itself here. There are a number of countries in the world who are participating in organizations that have expressed themselves on the basis that religious symbolism is a serious problem for them. Since those countries are totally hard - pressed secular states, this moment is of fundamental importance to them. There is a tradition for Ukraine, and there is no problem with that. Hence, we do not need to make changes in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u77	Dear colleagues, there is no objection to putting to the vote the draft Ukrainian Law on the Adoption of the Amendment to the Articles of the Agreement of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development? [[Registration number 0139]] None. I'm betting on a vote to pass the bill as a law. [[Registration number 0139]] Please vote. [[17:43:35]] For 345. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, on the matter of the Rules Committee, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council, I ask the Secretariat to prepare, on the basis of the comments of our committee, a request to the Cabinet of Ministers, a clear statement of the positions to be taken in the submission of draft ratification laws to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And another announcement: we continue the evening session for 15 minutes, up to 18 hours 15 minutes. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Singapore on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income taxes and the Protocol thereto is announced for consideration. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Finance, Fedashkin Denis Alexandrovich, co-rapporteur, Taras Crnowil.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u78	Dear National Deputies! The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Singapore on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income taxes and the Protocol thereto, signed in Singapore on 26 January 2007. With the agreement being made, Ukraine’s contractual tax base is expanding. The agreement provides favourable conditions for investors in Ukraine and Singapore and stimulates the business initiative of entrepreneurs. The purpose of the treaty is to avoid double taxation of legal and natural persons occurring in the territory of both countries. This is achieved both by dividing the right to tax certain types of income between Ukraine and Singapore depending on their origins and by taking into account the taxpayer’s tax obligations of one State the amount of taxes paid in another State. The agreement also aims to prevent tax evasion, eliminate tax discrimination and create mechanisms to improve cooperation between the tax authorities of Ukraine and Singapore by establishing a procedure for mutual reconciliation of issues and the exchange of tax information. The adoption of the Act will speed up the validity of the Agreement and its protocol and streamline relations between Ukraine and the Republic of Singapore in the tax area. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u79	Taras Blackwall, first deputy head of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u80	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! Regarding this ratification, the thing is that with those countries with which we don't have double taxation and tax avoidance agreements, we don't actually have investment projects, nor can we normally have cooperation or trade normal relationships. Singapore is one of the Asian tigers, a country with very serious prospects, but today a number of serious projects that could be implemented have stopped because there is no agreement. Business, finance in this case usually does not risk going to work, knowing that doubles plus can be unfair competition. We've assessed Singapore's legislation, it's adequate, financial flows control in Singapore is equally adequate, there's no warning from international organizations in this case to Singapore. In view of the serious prospects for investment and trade, please support the bill. He was supported by all the related committees, the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. The Committee on Budget Affairs states that this bill will have no impact on the income and expenditure of the budget. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u81	Do you have any objections, Your Honor? None. I am voting on the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Singapore on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income taxes and the Protocol thereto. Draft Law 0128 for adoption as a whole. Please vote. [[17:48:08]] For 348 The law is passed. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan on Air Connection is under review. The reporter is Deputy Minister of Transport and Communications, David Alexander Mikolayovich. The narrator is Taras Cnerwell.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u82	Honourable National Deputies, the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan on Air Relations has been developed with a view to implementing internal State procedures, entering into force of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan on Air Relations. The draft law provides for ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of a treaty signed on March 7, 2008, in Dushanbe. The draft law is accepted without notice by the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. As a result of the government's meeting, the Cabinet of Ministers passed Decree of 22 July 2009 on submission and ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan on air links. The adoption of the draft law will ensure the creation and functioning of a reliable legal mechanism at international level for the implementation and revitalization of bilateral inter-State relations between Ukraine and Tajikistan, contribute to the development of cooperation in the field of aviation, the further expansion of the geography of flights by Ukrainian airlines. Taking this into account, please support the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan on Air Communications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u83	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Taras Blackwall, first deputy head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u84	Dear fellow national MPs! I want to remind you that not so long ago, we have ratified one of the contracts with Tajikistan for road transport, for car communication. Then there were some questions: What kind of car connections do we have? In fact, they can, because we already have certain companies working there, they're going to have to be provided. What about air travel? So far it's mostly about freight transport plus use and the work of our airlines that can't find their seats here today, but they have problems in Europe. There in Tajikistan, where in the absence of normal routes, aviation is the most significant. So this agreement is more in this case an interest for Ukraine. Because I don't know how powerful Tajik airlines are, but they're not on our market. And our airmen are already working in Tajikistan. So in this case, we ask for the support of this bill, because it will bring about and make it possible to work properly there. The Ministry of Transport asks for support, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority does not deny, the Rules Committee has the same observations that, in others, the Committee on Budget Affairs confirms that the agreement does not affect the income and expenditure of the State budget. So please support and help our airlines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u85	Dear colleagues! Is there a need to discuss a bill? You don't? I am voting on the draft Ukrainian Act ratifying the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan on Air Connection, for adoption as a whole. [[Registration number 0140]] Please vote. [[5:51:59]] For 346 The law is passed. The draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on Air Communications is being announced for consideration. Reporter, Deputy Minister of Transport and Communications of David Alexander Mikolayovich, co-rapporteur, is the first deputy head of the Committee in the foreign affairs of Taras Cnerowil.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u86	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on Air Relations has been developed with a view to implementing the internal procedures necessary for the Agreement to enter into force. The draft law provides for ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Treaty, which was signed in Kiev on June 24, 2008. The project was agreed without notice by all ministries, as a result of a meeting of the Government of Ukraine, the Order of 22 July 2009 on ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on Air Relations was adopted. [[Number 761]] The implementation of the law does not require funding from Ukraine’s national or local budgets. The adoption of the draft law will ensure the establishment of a legal mechanism for the development and revitalization of state-to-state relations between Ukraine and Bosnia and Herzegovina. It will promote cooperation in the field of air transport, tourism, and allow airlines from both countries to initiate regular transport. Taking this into account, please support the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on Air Relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u87	Taras Chernobyl, please. The committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u88	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Our committee reviewed the draft ratification and unanimously, likewise, approved of its support. Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in its full name the Confederation of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska. It is a country that is now developing violently. Dynamic development: construction, development of transport networks, including aviation. The market for Bosnia is being marketed by mass transport companies of the European Union. But as of today, old contacts, old connections, finally some sympathy from the past have allowed Ukraine to find its place in this market. Therefore, please support ratification so that Ukrainian transports can work, transporters also work in Bosnia. In addition, it is a country worth traveling to. Mountain tourism is under development, an incredibly exciting place, and it was there this summer. I call on everyone to be there. And so the prospect is great that in the near future charter tourist routes, charters under ski tourism, can be opened. In Bosnia, I recall there was a winter of the Olympic Games. So now this bill has actually come to light, because it is not excluded that the east, after its adoption, will be possible to start certain not only freight but also passenger transports to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Please support, everyone has supported, there is no objection.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u89	Dear colleagues, no objection to the committee's proposal? I can't see. I am voting on the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on Air Relations. [[for adoption as a whole of the draft law]] Please vote. [[17:56:04]] For 361 Decision taken. It is announced for consideration, honourable colleagues, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009. [[on regulatory policy issues relating to the payment of municipal services and participation in international peacekeeping operations]] [[resecond reading]] [[Registration number 4707]] Mikhail Chechtov's microphone, please. Mikhail Chechtov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u90	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! It was a perfectly fair observation made by Jury Carmazin that sometimes raw documents were produced, which were then voted in the hall, then went to tie something together, to trim the law in a less decent way, to amend it on two pages, that we voted on banks. Today, we accept the most serious document and it was almost not adopted in the budget committee. How can we accept it today and see it in the hall, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u91	Please note. Deputy Head of the Committee, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u92	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! In accordance with the decision of the Supreme Council, the draft Law amending the 2009 Act on the State Budget of Ukraine has been prepared for review in a second reading. [[by registration number 4707]] This question was discussed at the Budget Committee on October 20, 2009. In preparing the bill for re-reading the comparative table, proposals are made by the National Deputies, as well as the provisions of some bills to amend the State Budget 2009 Act, which are currently under consideration by the Budget Committees. With a view to ensuring a balance in the state budget's aggregate indicators when the bill is adopted and reconciled with the last edition of the State Budget 2009 Act, taking into account the relevant amendments adopted to this Act since 23 June and from 25 August 2009, it is proposed to make appropriate changes to the text of Article 1 and Appendices 1 and 3 to the State Budget 2009 Act, first of all, to the summary of the public budget expenditure figures. [[No. 1534]] [[No. 1608]] As a result of the review of 27 proposals made to the comparative table, only 7 proposals were not supported by the committee. The Committee on Budget Affairs approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of draft law number 4707 on second reading and generally as a law according to the comparative table given in the Hall. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u93	Dear colleagues, let's do some repairs. Those are the adjustments that are taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u94	Vote all revisions? Okay. No problem. Dear colleagues! Just a minute. Davidenko, national MP, please. We'll vote on all the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u95	I'm at the expense of my amendment regarding the financing of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In fact, part of my amendment of 100 million was taken into account because the Ministry of Finance agreed to do so. But I'm sure. That all the colleagues, speaking to us from abroad, have experienced the lack of funding that is this year at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So I'm asking the representative of the Ministry of Finance to increase this amount from 15 million to 35 million and, in time, it's just 30 million overseas funding programs. I'm asking you to take this into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u96	Let's do it this way, dear fellows. Dear colleague, when we get to your amendment, then we will vote on this proposal. [[May I have your attention, ……]] No objections? When we get to this amendment, you just have to say it. Because, your fellow Members, in accordance with the Rules, we have to vote on all the amendments, and they insist on that, I will make all the amendments that are taken into account and that are not counted. No objections? May I have your attention, please? May I have your attention, please? Dear colleagues, Amendment No. 1 of the Cabinet of Ministers. It's counted. Please, just so we can make it, briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u97	Dear colleagues, please support this amendment. This amendment gives additional revenue to the budget, which will be aimed at eliminating the consequences of the disaster in the western areas of Ukraine, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, precisely the costs that my colleague Davidenko was talking about. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u98	Dear colleagues, I'm voting amendment number one, this is an amendment from Kabmin. Please vote. [[18:01:34]] For 236 Correction accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u99	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u100	Amendment No. 2 of the People's Deputy Ungurian. It's partially accounted for. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u101	Dear colleagues, please support the amendment of the National MP Ungurian in the editorial form proposed by the Committee, in part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u102	I bet on the vote of Amendment No. 2 of Paul Ungurian. Please vote. [[18:02:10]] For 238. Correction accepted. Let's move on, dear fellows. Amendment number 3 Olega Laška.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u103	Please support this amendment. This amendment clarifies the title of the law, considering that we voted the previous one.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u104	I'll bet on the vote of Amendment 3. Please vote. [[18:02:43]] For 238. Correction accepted. Amendment number 4. Picker and Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u105	Support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u106	I'll bet on the vote of Amendment 4. Please vote. [[18:03:05]] For 235 Copy that. Okay, amendment number five of Oleg the Light. It's counted. Please, Adam Martinyuk. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u107	Thank you. Dear colleagues, once again you are spoken to as we permit. You and I don't remember recently what amount the Cabinet of Ministers' reserve fund has dramatically increased. They've increased dramatically. Where he went is unknown. In the Cabinet of Ministers there is something in hand that no Cabinet of Ministers has, no Ministry of the World. There's a stable fund that's distributed not by the Supreme Council, but by the Cabinet of Ministers, this half of the State Budget is in manual administration. Now they're offering to allocate the funds that have already been allocated. The disaster took place in July-month, from the Cabinet of Ministers reserve fund, I know in my native Volin district that these funds have already been used. Now they want to make a second allocation, as it were, of the funds already allocated. And so about every article. You vote for excise.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u108	Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I want to explain. Amendment number 5. This is intended to allocate funds for the elimination of the consequences of the natural disaster that occurred in July 2008 to areas such as Chernivci, 10 million, the district budgets of the Vinnitsk Region, 5, Zakarpatski, 10, Ivano-Frankovsky, 65, Lvivsky, 35, Ternopil, one and a half million, Chernivecki, 32 million.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u109	Dear colleagues! Let's do it this way, let's vote on the amendments. If the amendment insists on the basis of its amendment, we will discuss it. And I ask all others, honourable colleagues, to act in accordance with the Rules. You're on, Adam Ivanovich. We vote on any amendments that are made. Please calm down! Dear colleagues, I'm voting on Amendment 5 of Oleg Laska. Please vote. [[18:05:46]] For 240 Correction accepted. Amendment number six. Olega Laszka.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u110	Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u111	Vladimir Karpuk, please. For what reason? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u112	Dear colleagues, this amendment is intended to increase spending on consumption to maintain the State Audit Service by 10 and a half million. At the same time, the funding of the Institute of Phtysiatry and Pulmonology is rejected. I realize that the audit office is now doing a lot of work and a specific amount of work, but I think we can do without that amount.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u113	Dear colleagues, well, that's what we're going to define by voting right now. This is about the MCS. There's 15 million MSS, and there's an offer, it's there. Not in this one? Well, I'm looking, right over here, where the MFZ is going to be 15 million dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u114	There is the 10th Amendment of Davidenko, where there are similar proposals for the MMS.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u115	Well, then we'll get to the tenth. I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 6, by Oleg Lazko. Please vote. [[18:07:06]] For 217 Dear colleagues, let's do this now. May I have your attention, please? Well, Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u116	Dear colleagues, I am addressing "Our Ukraine." And "self-defence": well, you are. Put yourself in an idiotic position. You're on an adventure, you're filling up the electoral fund, Mrs. Timoshenko. What are you doing?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, this is where you speak. Take it easy! All right, all right. One minute! Let's now vote on Amendment 6, there's a proposal for the allocation of funds to the CIA, the Audit and Audit Service, and also the Ministry of Internal Affairs. We vote individually, the Supreme Council of Ukraine will determine. Is there no objection? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u118	Vladimir Mikhailovich, in order not to waste time, the Supreme Council has already been appointed after the sixth amendment, has not been supported. I propose to move on, there is the tenth amendment of colleague Davidenko, which provides for the allocation of funds to the Ministry of Internal Affairs. You don't have to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u119	Let's move on, amendment number 7 of Oleg Laszka and Portnowa Andria, it's accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u120	Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u121	I'll bet on the vote of Amendment 7. [[18:08:35]] For 225
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u122	Let's not make it, let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u123	225. Let's move on. Amendment number 8. The committee took her into account and asked her to support her. I'm voting on Amendment 8.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u124	Please be supportive. Vote, boys. Vote! Boys, vote! [[18:09:11]] For 240
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u125	Correction accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u126	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u127	Amendment 9 Oleg Laszka.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u128	Please be supportive. These are medals for the veterans of the Great Homeland War.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u129	I'll bet on the vote of Amendment 9. [[18:09:40]] For 311 May I have your attention, please? Amendment 10.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u130	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! It is suggested that an additional 20 million people’s representative of Davidenko be considered and that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs be provided with the additional 20 million he spoke of. And code clarification is a request from the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u131	Please, Anatoly.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u132	supports this proposal. And given that the 6 and 7 amendments have not been voted on, balance them at the expense of this resource, and what is not enough, on the basis of excise duty on domestic goods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u133	No objections? I'm voting on Amendment 10, taking into account the proposals made by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Please vote. [[6:10:39]] For 243 Decision taken. Amendment 11.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u134	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, considering that we have just voted on the amendment of colleague Davidenko, is proposed. authors do not insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u135	But together, if the authors don't insist, I'm going to put her to the vote on this amendment. Dear colleagues, I am going according to the Rules, and the Supreme Council will determine. I'm voting on the 11th amendment. I'd like to make up my mind. [[18:11:21]] For-16 The decision is not taken. Amendment 12. The committee rejected her, and she had to be accepted. Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u136	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, the 12th amendment envisions an increase in expenditures on the Supreme Council by 17 million dollars to make calculations out of. Let me finish with the hotel bills for the people's deputies. I'm both hands to support them. But I want to remind you of the story when the President vetoed the law where we put insulin money just because there were expenses on the Supreme Council. It is from these motives that the committee proposes that it reject the amendment so that it does not risk all the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u137	Dear colleagues! Adam Martinyuk, please. Calm down, we're going to vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u138	Dear colleagues, I'm going to be speaking here as a representative of the regulatory committee, at each of which we're looking at this coin, which is not enough, that there's not enough, that there's not enough. As the funding of the Supreme Council has been cut down, none of the authorities have been cut down. I know the attitude, to the great regret, of the Cabinet of Ministers that we form. I'll tell you how they feel about that. As soon as they hear that for the Supreme Council, take it off and don't look at it. Although thank you, at the last meeting of the Cabinet, the Ministry of Finance tried to include the matter in the agenda. Those above said, by no means. So let's say we treat each other in a completely different way. I propose to support this amendment, because there will be nothing left of the hotel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u139	Dear colleagues! Please, as we begin to discuss, then there will be a “war”! The money they're talking about, they're going to go back to the budget anyway, you know that. The committee turned it down. I'll bet on the Supreme Council of Ukraine's amendment number 12. [[18:13:49]] For-173 Correction not supported. Next. Amendment 13, it's rejected, it's about an increase in expenses to the Supreme Administrative Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u140	The committee proposes not to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u141	I bet on the vote of Amendment 13. [[18:14:22]] For 106 Correction not supported. The 14th amendment, the committee counted it. I would like to vote in favour of Amendment 14.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u142	Please be supportive. We vote in favour. [[18:14:45]] For 228 Correction accepted. The 15th amendment, the committee counted it. I would like to vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u143	Please back up! Ivan Grigorovitch, vote! Vote!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u144	While I'm at it. [[18:15:08]] For 230 Copy that. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, in view of the fact that we have entered into a conflict, we are considering a bill, we have not completed it, I will put a proposal to the vote: to work until the bill is completed. Please vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u145	Please vote. [[18:15:44]] For 237 Decision taken. Amendment 16. The committee counted it. I vote in favour of Amendment 16. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u146	Please be supportive. This 57th article is being ruled out. Pay up. That was your offer. [[18:16:07]] For 235
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u147	Decision taken. Now the amendment, please note, number 17, where it comes from the allocation of funds for the construction of the highway across the Dnipro River in Zaporozhye - 200 million. The committee turned it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u148	Mr. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, honourable colleagues, the committee proposes to reject this amendment in view of the following: there is the bill of the People's Deputy of Derkac and others, Baran's Valery of Alexiyovich, which was proposed by another bill on this subject, it is supported by the committee and will be in the hall shortly. Of these 150 million per city, the government has also allocated another 50 million to build a bridge in Zaporozhye. Therefore, it is proposed that this amendment should not be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? May I have your attention, please? You and I, your honors, have made a decision and the Supreme Council of Ukraine has to implement its decisions, and I'll remind you that we've made a decision on 6 more, if I'm not mistaken, October 20th, that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should consider the relevant bill on bridges in Zaporozhye. Was that the decision of the Supreme Council?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u150	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u151	There was.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u152	And there's a law. There's a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u153	So let's put it this way, I'm going to vote on paragraph 17. Please vote. Please vote. [[18:17:54]] For-164 The decision is not taken. Wait a minute! Dear colleagues, I will ask the question after the conclusion of the debate in such a way that tomorrow we will present this bill and implement the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's who's gonna make the first promise. Let us do everything in accordance with the law of Ukraine. Tomorrow, please, we will consider this bill. 164. Please, by the factions. Region Party – 102, “Timoshenko Block” – 7, “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense” – 6, Communists – 27, “Litvina Block” – 20, non-fractional – 2. Amendment number 18.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u154	Please be supportive. About 202 million for applied research in the military defense of the state. It's about supporting the Ministry of Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u155	Dear colleagues, this is about the Ukrainian tank. I'll put it to a vote. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u156	About the support of the Harkowe Tractor Factory.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u157	Please vote. [[18:19:06]] For 243 Correction accepted. Now it's amendment number 19.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u158	The committee proposes to reject this amendment. McKeenko's correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u159	It is the construction, reconstruction, and capital repair of the facilities of the National Institute of Phtysiatry and Pulmonology of Janowski’s name. 22 million 900,000.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u160	The committee, honourable colleagues, suggests that this amendment be included in the budget, in the draft budget for 2010. Since it is no longer the end of the year, it is not possible to perform physical reconstruction for 22 million by the end of the year. Therefore, the funds will not be earned. That is why it is proposed to be included in the budget next year.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u161	I'm voting on Amendment 19. Please vote. [[18:20:10]] For-149 The decision is not taken. I'm asking the committee to set up budget proposals for next year. Amendments number 20. It's counted. At the same time, I am voting in favour of Amendment 20.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u162	Please support, this is about writing off Naftogazu's debt. [[18:20:39]] For 226
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u163	For 226. Correction accepted. Amendment 21. It's counted. May I have your attention, please, to vote on Amendment 21.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u164	Please support, this is an amendment, which is only about state property. [[6:21:05]] For 232
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u165	For 232. Correction accepted. Amendment 22. Picker, Kirilchuk, Lyszko. It's counted. I bet. To vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u166	Regarding the write-off of Naftogazu’s debt, please support. Children’s enterprises. We haven't been able to vote. [[18:21:29]] For 217
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u167	Well, you vote for me. For 217, the amendment is not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u168	Vladimir Mikhailovich, let me explain. Maybe. Dear colleagues, the 22nd Amendment. It is proposed that the bill be supplemented by such a standard: to write down the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz Ukraine, its subsidiaries - "Smalling" and "Ukrattransgaz" - Penny and fines listed by the supervisory authorities for tax, customs and monetary offences. [[They're state companies.]] This is the position of the bill of colleague Stack. So this year, in 2009. It's 60, or maybe millions of dollars, if that's what it is. No, no, millions. We voted on Naftogaz before that. It's about the children's companies to write these pennies off. Let's support that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u169	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u170	Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u171	Please calm down! I'm voting on the return to consideration of Amendment 22. [[18:22:52]] For 234 We're back. I bet you vote in favour of Amendment 22. Please calm down, everyone! [[18:23:13]] For 233 Correction accepted. Amendment 23, Borisov, National MP. It's counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u172	Clarification. This is an amendment specifying the name of the subsidy for the reconstruction of the Taras Grigorovitch Shevchenk Reserve in Canev. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u173	I bet on the vote of Amendment 23, please vote. [[6:23:47]] For 243 Amendment 24. People's MP Lasko is the author.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u174	This amendment is proposed for the Central Election Commission to add 4 million under the programme “Leading and Governance in Elections and Referendums”. to the Central Election Commission. Four million. Please support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u175	May I have your attention, please? I bet on the vote on Amendment 24. Please vote. [[18:24:29]] For 236 Correction accepted. Amendment 25. People's deputy Sochka. It's rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u176	The committee proposes not to support this amendment. It's an amendment. He proposes to place other rates of excise duty on the congregation. We suggest not to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u177	Is there a national MP, Sochka?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u178	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u179	I'm voting on Amendment 25. [[18:25:15]] For-64 Correction not supported. And Amendment 26, Yuri Carmazin. Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u180	Take it off, it's not supported anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u181	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, we have voted in favour of the law, and we are about to vote. I propose that the following paragraph be added: “The Cabinet of Ministers and the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Issues ensure that the Supreme Council is provided with a mandatory allocation and a monthly report on the expenditure of the State Budget Reserve Fund and the calculation of the additional cost requirements in terms of the corresponding budget allocations.” We're deputies, not the ones that one of our colleagues was talking about. And I'd like them to give us reports in accordance with the laws. I ask everyone to support this amendment, no matter what factions it has to do with the authority of the state. Stop walking and write questions that no one answers. It's a duty of authority to give us money: where they're spent, how much. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u182	Anatoly Merkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u183	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The point is that these positions set out here in the amendment are regulated by the Budget Code. And Minfin provides this information every month. Why, then, duplicate the Budget Law when it is regulated in the Budget Code? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u184	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I will now put to the vote the amendment of Yuri Carmazin. At the same time, I ask the Committee on Budgets, Banks and Banking to examine how much they agree with these two committees and to provide information to the Supreme Council of Ukraine so that we can all calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u185	Now let's make it right. May I have your attention, please? I now put to the vote the amendment of Yuri Carmazina number 26. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u186	The committee supports this amendment, taking into account the parliamentary form of government in Ukraine. [[Laughter]] [[18:27:27]] For 366
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u187	Decision taken. Now, dear fellows, I bet. National Deputy Skutjak, faction of "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u188	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, in order to vote on this bill as a whole, the 20th amendment needs to be clarified. It's 18.6 billion dollars. Well, that's it. Where could such a sum of money come from? What's this all about, anyway?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u189	Anatoly Merkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u190	Dear National Deputies! This position relates to the replenishment of the NAC’s statute fund Naftogaz Ukraine in order to fully calculate the gas received. And this is going to be, this operation is going to be done through the release of state securities, so we're exchanging shares of Ukraine's Naftogazu, capitalizing it, and we're going to give it the securities that should then be cashed on a schedule by the National Bank. So there are no inadequacies. Thank you. The government's going to be, in exchange for shares.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u191	I apologize to my colleagues, there are two amendments because 20 and 21 are tied together. Because according to 21 amendments, these shares won't pass to anyone. These shares will not be speculated upon, these stocks will remain in the state. So that's why there's 21 amendments, as a precaution against investing these shares, to anyone, to Russia and to others, and that's why there's this situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u192	Dear National Deputies! So let's just say the 20th amendment was voted equal to 226 votes. If. 226 votes. If there is no desire to vote for the law, then no law will be passed. That you can convince each other. The only colleagues we have not yet voted on the amendment number. Dear colleagues, please calm down. We did not vote on Amendment 27. Yuri Carmazin, Amendment 27 we haven't voted on yours yet. 27 We did not vote on Yuri Karmazin’s amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u193	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, this amendment, where he proposes to exclude the expenses of the State Enterprise, doesn't need to be voted on, because before that, there were no amendments to the allocation of funds for the State Enterprise, so it's gone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u194	Mikhailo Chechetov, please. May I have your attention, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u195	Dear colleagues, I repeat my appeal to Amendment 20. Rightfully, the representative of “Our Ukraine” said: “The affair of the century!” $18 billion has been stolen, and now they want to close this hole with paper. A party of regions in this adventure will not participate in this robbery. Whoever votes takes responsibility for the robbery of the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u196	Paul Zebravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u197	Back to the repairs, Mr. Michael, no one is better off there, but the question to Minfin of 20 revisions. We got the right idea that an issue of 18.6 billion dollars is going to be made. And that is, to increase the statute fund Naftogaz, you include a printing press of 18.6 billion dollars. Request: If so, I ask that the law not be overturned, return to Amendment 20 and remove it from consideration, and then the law will be passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u198	Anatoly Merkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u199	Dear National Deputies! Once again, I'd like to explain the point of the 20 revisions. We are trading shares of NAC “Naftogaz Ukraine ” in exchange for the government’s UDP. Let's move on. No, it's an issue of securities. Further on, the monetaryization of these securities will take place in Nazbank according to the graph. So it's not going to be a money issue, it's an issue of securities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u200	Dear colleagues! The government’s clarifications were received. Given that, I'm betting now. Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u201	Dear colleagues! Again and again, I urge you to go back to the articles that have something to do with the Supreme Council. Think about what you've done. You're 60 million just like that, and you've written off those debts, actually, those violations that the State Auditor's Office has shown. This is your service. But you gave it to me. Keep breaking it. And 60 million went to the sand. We're asking and saying that it takes 17 million dollars to get people's deputies, colleagues, I don't remember 60 or 70 people's deputies, who so far, 110 who are still living in the hotel, who are still unable to continue living and paying for 17 million debts. I ask you to support this article in funding the Supreme Council for the residence of the National Deputies. Everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u202	Dear National Deputies! So let's think about it this way. If we insist that the amendment of the 12th be voted on, then we will see to it that we will all vote in favour of the law in general. For after that we will have this situation: “We will go to heaven on a strange hill,” and then we will say that part of the villains, forgive me for the word, take the money. So let us be aware and support this decision by taking full responsibility for the entire Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, calm down! Arjovitin, please. I'll put it on the vote, but then let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u203	Deputies! I also propose to go back to the 20th amendment, because that's why we're going to knock down the whole bill. The 20th amendment is a pure issue of the National Bank. In order not to be told about the GDP, about the securities, this operation is called “the hidden issue of the National Bank”. I'm asking you, 18 billion is the worst amount. Please delete it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u204	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Of course, it is the right of the Supreme Council to reconsider this amendment and to make a decision on it. But I would like to point out that this is how we compensate for the losses that Naftogaz Ukraine is causing to supply gas to the population at underpriced prices. Thus, by voting in favour of this amendment, we avoid the bankruptcy of the state-owned company Naftogaz Ukraine. Please support this amendment. But it's your right to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u205	Dear colleagues, please! There's such an offer, let's calm down. That's the first one. The other one. Dear colleagues, we will now return to Amendment 12, as Adam Ivanovich spoke of,
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u206	20.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u207	Listen to me. Before the amendment number 12 mentioned by Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. After I understand that there will be no votes to adopt the law so as not to burn it, I will put to the vote a motion to cancel the vote for amendment 20. That's how you understand? If it is not overturned, then the approval law in general is put to the vote. Am I saying it right?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u208	In this order. But on one condition, let's make sure that the law is passed. Dear colleagues, so that there will be no political images here. May I have your attention, please? Dear colleagues, I repeat my offer. I now propose to return to Amendment 12. The argument was made by Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. Then we'll go back to the 20th. And the third is the final vote. Is there no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u209	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u210	It's not the opposite, it's the logic. Dear colleagues, the amendments are voted from smaller to larger.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u211	No, on the contrary, it's final, and then it's going back to 20.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u212	Honorable colleagues, when put to the vote and not finally accepted, would mean that the law was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u213	We can go back.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u214	Could it be? Or we'll send him to read again. And this is the second time again, you know what this is about? Is there no objection to such an offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u215	There isn't!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u216	So I am voting for the motion to return to Amendment 12, which the Supreme Council of Ukraine did not support by raising 173 votes. This is an amendment made by Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk to compensate for his stay at the hotel. Amendment number 12. I'll bet you a vote. Please vote. [[18:37:41]] For-188. Correction not accepted. Now. The factions, please. Region Party – 127, "Block of Timoshenko" – 6, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" – 21, communists – 26, "Block of Lithuania" – 6, non-fractional – 2. Now, dear fellows, may I have your attention? Amendment number 20. We have confirmed this amendment by a number of votes 226. They are now insisting that the results of the vote for Amendment 20 be lifted, which is the norm. Part of the first article 79 after the words “shares may be purchased” is supplemented by the words “National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine” for a sum of not more than 18 billion 600 million dollars. I'm voting on canceling Amendment 10. I'm sorry about the vote cancellation for Amendment 20. For revoking the vote for Amendment 20. [[18:39:02]] For-31 The amendment remains. Now, honourable national MPs, I bet. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u217	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I suggest you listen to us, dear colleagues. Because we have 20 amendments about. Ladies and gentlemen. Chechatov, have a conscience! You don't vote for any law, and you give orders to other factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u218	I'm asking you not to advertise. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u219	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, there is an offer. We have 20 revisions for stock acquisitions. 21 Kulikov’s amendment to make them only state property. These are related adjustments. There is a proposal to vote down the results of both amendments: 20 and 21. Exclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u220	Mikhailo Chechetov, please. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u221	Dear colleagues, look at the cynicism. When it was proposed to the Government and the BUTU and the ruling coalition to vote in favour of salary and pension increases, the non-participated 3 billion were not found, but to write down 20 billion incomprehensibly where they are located, yes. Do you have a conscience or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u222	Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u223	Sobolev, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues, calm down. Let's tell the truth. Those who now vote in favour of cancelling the 20 and 21 amendments actually raise the population's tariffs on gas. This is a faction of Communists and regions. And you can give yourself a round of applause. So here's the deal. There is a position voted, there is a proposal to vote on the law as a whole, as amended by the 12 concerning the national MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u224	Vladimir Landik. And we're going to vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u225	It's interesting to hear when they say the price will be different. So you guys promised your leader that the gas for the population would be 30 bracelets of its own. What are you lying about?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u226	In accordance with the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, honourable national deputies have considered all the amendments. Those who have been voted on will enter the main body of the law if the Supreme Council supports the final edition. So I'm going to put the vote on approval of the draft law in second reading and in general as a law. [[May I have your attention, please?]] I am voting on a proposal for a second reading committee and, as a whole, a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009. [[Registration number 4707]] Here comes the vote. [[18:42:40]] For 208 The decision is not taken. What? What return to voting?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u227	Vladimir Mikhailovich, there's an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u228	Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down! Sit down, please. I'm asking you to calm down. And I'd like to say to the honorary colleague of the Forest. Let's do it this way. Don't cross the border. First of all, don't run the Supreme Council. Secondly, when a colleague of Sergei Sobolev spoke and suggested not to take 20 of the article, you applauded. I'd like to ask your respectable colleagues not to improvise. If the decision is a committee, let's make the decision of the committee. They've consulted, some innovations. I'll do it. One minute! I'll put in some more. There will be no more speeches, calm down. The only thing I'm going to say about. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll do it. Dear colleagues! You're welcome. [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, everybody, take your seats! I'll set up a return to the draft Law 4707. Please identify. [[18:44:11]] For 238. We're back to the debate. Calm down! Dear colleagues! Don't scream, please. You don't scream! Everybody, take your seats! Please, there was one more. Another suggestion was that the article should not be removed but that the results of amendments 20 and 21 should be abolished. I'm voting on canceling the 20th and 21st amendments. [[6:44:58]] For 217 All of it. All of it. All of it. Please don't turn into an unknown! Now I put to the vote -- the amendments that haven't been cancelled -- I put to the vote: the adoption of the second reading and, in general, the law. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u229	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! We can't put the vote in general right now, because we've already voted, and we haven't accepted it. We haven't been able to vote in favour of the 20th and 21th amendments. There is a proposal: to return to this vote, to vote on the exceptions to these amendments, and then to vote on the law as a whole. For this, there are 238 votes in the room. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m1.u230	Unlock the microphone. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to calm down! In accordance with the Rules and Procedure, I put to the vote the return to this bill. [[Look over there, not here.]] Put to the vote a return to the draft law. [[Registration number 4707]] Next: why did we come back? Because there was an offer to cancel the vote for Amendments 20 and 21. I'll put it to a vote. The Supreme Council voted in 217 votes, i.e. it did not support. All right. May I have your attention, please? So the presiding officer has every reason to vote on the approval of this law. And you don't have to blame me. In order for the purity of the experiment to be, I'm voting again on the return to the 20th and 27th amendments. I'd like to make a statement. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, calm down! Well, please! [[18:47:03]] For 233 We're back. I'm voting on the vote to cancel the vote for the 20th and 21st amendments. [[18:47:27]] For 235 Amendment 20th and 21st cancelled. I'm voting on adoption as a whole. in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009 as a whole. Please vote. [[6:48:05]] For 235 The law is passed. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at ten o'clock. We will discuss issues that the Supreme Council has not been able to discuss at its meeting on Thursday.
