ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Council" system. [[15:59:38]] They registered cards in the 400 National Deputies Hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, you know of the tragedy that took place on Donbas, people died on the mines called the Scots. I ask the Supreme Council of Ukraine to honor the memory of the dead with a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the findings of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 02 to 05 June 2009 in plenary mode. Six plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine addressed 104 issues of the agenda. As a result of the review, 21 laws and 9 regulations, 28 bills and one draft decree were adopted as a basis; two bills were sent for re-reading to the committee; one bill was adopted in the second reading and sent for third reading; one bill was returned to the committee for re-reading; and 10 bills and one draft decree were rejected. As a result of a review of President of Ukraine's proposals, the veto of the President of Ukraine has been overturned by one law, one law has been rejected, i.e. the veto of the President of Ukraine has not been overcome. A vote has been made and is sent to carry out 97 parliamentary requests. Dear colleagues, we have agreed with you on a meeting schedule for this plenary week, and we have agreed at the Conciliation Council meeting that a proposal will be put to the vote, please note, that the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will continue until 19 hours and that the drafts will be reviewed in a concise manner so that we can implement the plan that we have set for Tuesday and the following days. I'm voting on this proposal. Please be supportive. [[16:04:01]] For-173 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on a motion to review the bills for a reduced procedure. [[16:04:22]] For 180. Decision taken. I want to ask a rhetorical question to us, dear fellows, why we made a decision on the proposals, you know who this week to be plenary, when we have a gesture, we don't want to take anything. Either let us work, or let us make a decision and close the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We need to put the agenda into order, this is a draft law amending some of the legislative acts. [[Registration number 1140]] [[to simplify the procedures for providing assistance to families of the dead]] I'm voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the bill. [[Registration number 1140]] Please vote. [[16:05:23]] For 373 Decision taken. Let's move on to the draft law. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Bondik Valerij Anatoliyovich. Do you have Valery Anatolyovich? Correspondent is Head of the Legal Policy Committee Mishchenko Sergey Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, a venerable Presidium! First of all, thank you to the Supreme Council and to you, Mr. Head, for the opportunity to report this badly needed bill, which has unfortunately not yet been considered, but was presented by us as a team of authors since the tragedy on the mine of the name of Sedek Aleksandra Fedorovich. The bill is fully in line with my co-authors, from the faction of Ukraine's Evgen Volinec, from the faction of the Party of Regions Paul Korz and Viktor Turmanov, from the faction of BUT Mikhailo Volinec. Dear colleagues, the purpose of this bill is to make some changes in procedural and material legislation. What does that mean? First, that weight, which unfortunately exists in the case of the recognition of the dead, personally the miners after, I emphasize, after the completion of the work of the State Commission. So we don't change the norm of article 47, because that's the legal consequences of recognizing a person as dead. We are only making less burden at this difficult time when the widows and mothers of the dead miners walk through the courts. Unfortunately, it's a procedure, but it's justified in civil law, in civil and procedural law, in recognition of a dead person's fact, because it's an inheritance, because it's also a legislation that's compatible with the rights of a dead person, in particular, a mine. We're also amending the Cabinet of Ministers decree, and we're proposing to change the stick of this category. You see, recognition of a fact of legal significance is a separate chapter in civil and procedural legislation. And this is not the case where 0.5 percent of the taxed minimum is paid to the state. There are others.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u3	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u4	So, dear colleagues, you know that still tragic events have taken place on Sochiński's mine. As a tragic event, I will not stop at this law, you can take a close look. Please support this bill, because there's nothing lobbyist about it. Motivating one thing — you and I must support the families of the dead miners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u5	The head of the committee, Sergei Mishchenko. Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u6	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, Honourable People's Deputies, Committee on Legal Policy discussed at its meeting on 11 March 2008 the draft Ukrainian Law amending some of the legislative acts introduced by the authors: Bondik, Volinc, Korzem, Turmanov again on 07.12.2007. [[to simplify the procedures for providing assistance to families of the dead]] The purpose of the bill is to amend the Civil Code of Ukraine, the master code of Ukraine and the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on State Customs. During the consideration of the bill, members of the Committee on Legal Policy drew attention to a number of shortcomings contained in the project. Although the idea of the drafters of the bill is very clear that it is necessary and necessary in such times to help families who have died from technological or other disasters, it is necessary to do so clearly out of legal order because such novices, as declared by a dead court, are not immediately a person, that is, not in the Civil Code, 252 articles, the question of what is such an urgent matter? Because the term is determined by years, months, weeks, days, or hours. Therefore, it was necessary to determine when such a person was declared dead. Also, what are some of the bodies that really deal with this issue? It is suggested that legal persons deal with the matter. If you take the mine that owns the mine, along with the trade committees, although there is no such thing as a concept in the legal system of a trade committee, there is another concept.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u7	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u8	What's more, if we're making amendments to the Cabinet decree, we know that we should be introducing them not later than six months before the start of the new budget year, and they're taking effect from the beginning of the new budget year. Thus, in 2008, the committee decided that the subject should be returned to the legislative initiative for the drafting of the bill. But understanding this, I already think, understanding the relevance of this issue, we can make the following decision: whether to re-read the first reading to vote and to eliminate these issues all, and so that there will be a clear panel meeting on Thursday, we can put it to a vote to replace it; or whether the question of calling off this bill by authors and introducing another one that will agree with the positions of jurisprudence, because both the Scientific and Expert Office and the Ministry of Justice, and the Supreme Court of Ukraine have clearly said that it cannot be. It's accepted, although it's very clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u9	Thank you. Have a seat. Dear colleagues, given the relevance of this bill, it might be your good will if we put it to the vote, to accept it as a basis. Or maybe it was decided that the entry into force of January 1, 2010, because by the time we do, the President will sign it, it will be almost a year ago, and we would have found such a compromise. Is there no objection? Can we put it to a vote like this or are we going to discuss it? Vote, right? I'll put it to a vote. Can I put it to a vote? I am betting on a motion for adoption on the basis of a draft law, taking into account that we will see "implementation as of 1 January 2010". [[Registration number 1140]] Is there no objection? I'm voting on this proposal and I'm asking you to vote. On the ground! [[16:13:23]] For 248 Decision taken. Announcing the project. With motive? Please. Yuri Carmazin with a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u10	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, Vladimir Mikhailovich! I understand we're in a hurry, we owe it, but it's a very serious bill that we've just voted on. I would very much like the people who are going to work on the second reading to realize that we are going to make it worse and that we are going to step on the rights of those who might be considered dead. That's why language works. may be subject to amendments to part 1 of article 46 of the Ukrainian Civil Code on the reduction of the term. This term can be made one month, but it is not to say that this person is immediately declared dead, for in such situations we will take away this person’s rights if he survives and bury the hope of others to survive. So, Vladimir Mikhailovich, this is an extremely serious institutional thing that should, in principle, be discussed. Thank you for the opportunity to make your comments.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u11	Thank you. Valery Bondick, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u12	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich, unfortunately, you are confusing the law and the law. See the following articles. There are legal consequences. This is not an immediate matter. And I took it from the law. And look, it doesn't conflict with the following articles, which are and which are related to this article. And only after the work of the State Commission has one been declared dead. And so I ask you not to refer to the findings of the Science and Technology Administration. Unfortunately, people, not practice, don't know that. But we all worked on the mine, we know what it is. I'm asking you to support my bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u13	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine is being tabled. [[on the withdrawal of the moratorium on the receipt of wages in the executive direction of the fuel-energy complex]] Here we have two draft laws: 3661 and 4396. Reporters are Ukrainian national deputy Alexander Feldman. Please turn on Alexander Feldman.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u14	I ask you to withdraw this bill because the next is a Kabminov project, and it has been more adapted. Therefore, if Kabmin wishes, they will take into account some of the provisions of my bill. Take it off, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u15	Thank you. Is there no objection? The report then invites Justice Minister Mikola Vasilovich Onischuk. Coroner is the head of the Committee on Justice's subcommittee Pisarenko Valeriy Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u16	Honorable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies! In 2005, the Supreme Council of Ukraine approved the Law on Measures to Ensure the Permanent Functioning of Fuel and Energy Enterprises. These measures provided for a temporary stay, including the payment of salaries to employees of all businesses, even at the discretion of the courts. However, this temporary arrangement has, at times, become permanent. And I'm going to have to say that today, the employee debt on the wages of a fuel-energy complex is over 25 million dollars, that's just for the employees, and the debt that is the court's decision on its payment. It is obvious that this situation is actually unconstitutional, since article 43 of the Constitution establishes and guarantees Ukrainian citizens the right not only to work but also to pay the right to work. In this connection, the Government of Ukraine, and I thank Mr. Feldman very much for bringing our efforts together here, and he has now taken a pragmatic regulatory step, including the proposal to amend the law that I have called for, as well as the law on the enforcement of all restrictions. It is about paying Ukrainian citizens a salary, as it is guaranteed by the Constitution in respect of the debts that have been created today. Please support the law on the basis and, if there is Parliament's will, given the social significance of this issue, also in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u17	Thank you. Sit down, Mikola Vasilovich. Valérie Pisarenko, committee decision, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Justice discussed at its meeting on 13 May a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments and Supplements to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the lifting of the moratorium on wages in the executive introduction of the fuel-energy complex, registration number 3661, our colleague Feldman and draft Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Act 4396. The purpose of the bill is to ensure the right under article 43 of the Constitution of Ukraine to receive timely remuneration for work and to implement the provisions of the Labour Code. The bill proposes to amend Ukraine's legislation on measures aimed at ensuring the continuous functioning of fuel and energy companies and Ukraine's Act on Executive Conduct, which removes the moratorium on the implementation of the implementation of these undertakings in the event of decisions on the collection of debt on wages and other payments due to the employee in connection with labour relations, and to restore the impaired rights and interests of the contractor in the execution of the work. The Ministry of Fuel and Energy, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Ministry of Economy of Ukraine, Bill 4396 was agreed without notice. It should be noted that the Committee received a letter from the Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, which drew attention to the need for a balanced approach when preparing a bill for second reading with a view to preventing the destruction of the special debt repayment mechanisms introduced by this law. After considering the above-mentioned bill, the Committee on Justice decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the protection of the labour rights of citizens, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, to be adopted on the first reading as a basis. [[Registration Number 4396 of 17.04]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion if you need it. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Valerius Pisarenko, Yuri Carmazin, Jaroslav Suhi
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, now as a national deputy, a member of the committee, I want to tell you that this bill is really necessary in order to restore the rights of citizens that we have today. By the way, the question of the moratorium that we have today in the country for certain, including the realisation of state-owned assets, today needs a broad discussion. And, of course, you and I should be very careful not to restrict certain forms of property in the matter of disposition, in the matter of calling upon them. I think we need to move on today. And I understand that today there will be comments that this bill does not solve all the problems and all the questions about other areas of activity. I agree with that and I want to say that adoption today, in the first reading of this bill, will be the first step in restoring the rights that we have today both for citizens and for legal persons in those constitutional rights that are enshrined in the current basic law of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u21	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u22	Yuri Carmazin. The Party of Protectors of the Motherland “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”. Of course, it's not normal for honourable national MPs to have such a standard in law as is now written here. So these changes are caused by the need for a day, especially the things that the minister of justice said when the court debt goes beyond 25 million dollars, it's totally insane. Because decisions are made in the name of Ukraine. And I would like to draw the attention of the Minister of Justice right now, and I am addressing Prime Minister Timoshenko of the Ukraine on the full satisfaction of the decisions of the courts on the payment of the salaries that are due today. What's happening in practice is that, in practice, last year's decision is not included in the budget this year, and we have decisions that have not been made in the past year or in the past year. It's an extremely abnormal phenomenon, they can't finance from some other fund, we have to anticipate the costs, and we have to do it because it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, it's about, Now it's about how the bill was drafted. In principle, it can be understood that, in addition to making decisions on the payment of wages and other payments that are part of a work relationship, the final position in chapter 11 is changing and, in principle, understood. Whether something should be changed before the second reading or not, I believe that it is perfectly right for both the proposal and the committee, and for Ministu, that this law can be adopted immediately in two readings. He will solve the situation, but without the will, without the political will of the government, in this case, it is impossible to repay this debt of 25 million and to repay the debt of more than 200 million that hangs behind such decisions. That's why I'm responsible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u23	Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u24	Dear colleagues! I support the proposal of the Ukrainian national deputy Karmazin. This bill, if you vote for it, can only be adopted in the first reading. First. I don't understand why the profile committee on the fuel and energy complex of Mikoli Martinenko was silent, because that's their business. Remember, why did I take the word? I took part in the drafting of this bill in 2003, 2004 and we adopted it in 2005. What were the conditions of the fuel-energy sector of Ukraine, especially nuclear power plants? Non-payments, no finances, no cash, no bartering. That's why we adopted this bill. Right, that was 2005. What do we have today? And once again, I emphasize that we should have said, this is the debt of nuclear power plants, if this bill wasn't governmental, I would have thought that someone was already deliberating on the bankruptcy of our nuclear power plants. The law that you and I passed in 2005 is two conceptual novelties: a register of companies in the fuel and energy complex and a special regime of current accounts. Dear colleagues! The current accounts with a special use regime were intended exclusively for the purpose of carrying out monetary accounts to pay off debt in the application of settlement and restructuring mechanisms, operations cannot be suspended and cannot be charged to the funds of the Ukrainian Enforcement Act. Therefore, the special accounts do not allow money to move; they are not. The requirements for these accounts are closed by interaccounts, with several participants usually. I'd ask you not to do what we've been doing over the course of this year, on the one hand, as if by contributing to the recovery of the money we've earned, on the other hand, we're impacting and again contributing to the degradation of the depths.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u25	Let me finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u26	In order not to contribute to further degradation of the real economy, I propose that this is a problem, but this issue needs to be considered in more detail and the bill will have to be adopted in a second reading. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u27	Dear colleagues! The discussion is over. The proposal was to accept the project as a basis and to accept it at the same time as a whole. The proposal to adopt a draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine is therefore put to the vote. [[on the withdrawal of the moratorium on the receipt of wages in the executive implementation of the fuel-energy complex]] I'm betting on a vote to adopt this project as a basis. Please vote. [[16:27:40]] For 240 The bill was adopted as a basis. There was a proposal from both the government, and from Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin to accept this project as a whole. But there's a warning, so I can't put it on the vote as a whole, which is accepted as a basis. The draft Law on the Protection of Professional Activity of Journalists is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 2636]] The rapporteur is the first Deputy Head of the State Committee for Television and Radio Broadcasting, Mr. Anatoly Leonidovich. The Coroner is the Head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, Herman Hanna Mikolayevna. Please, I'm asking who will be on the committee to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u28	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The draft Law on the Protection of Professional Activity of Journalists was developed by the government in conjunction with the National Association of Journalists of Ukraine. The legal regulation of journalists' activities as one of the key elements of information legislation is now being implemented by a series of legal acts adopted in the 1990s. In particular, on public support for media and social protection for journalists, on printed media in Ukraine, on television and on radio, on information agencies, on the order in which public authorities and local governments are reported, on information and on other matters. However, the individual standards of these acts do not harmonize, repeat, and contain ambiguous interpretations. Therefore, there was a need for a comprehensive legislative act that would regulate relationships that arise in the process of a journalist’s professional activity. The bill defines the legal status of a journalist; the basic principles of professional activity of a journalist; professional rights and duties; the order of accreditation; guarantees of professional activity of journalists; responsibility for violations of journalistic legislation; the rights of journalist self - regulation bodies; international cooperation in the field of the media. The draft law was widely publicized, published in 2006 in the professional journal Journalist of Ukraine. In drafting the bill, legal analysis was carried out in accordance with international law and European legislation. I would like to ask you to support a bill to protect the professional activity of journalists, which will help protect legal rights, freedom of journalists in their professional activities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u29	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Andrew Shevchenko of the committee will report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u30	Colleagues, I'll be brief. The committee considered that support should be given as a basis. I think it would be a good gift for the recent Journalists' Day, which Ukraine celebrated. There are a few questions that have led to small discussions, and I think we're settling them in the stage of preparation for second reading. The committee proposes to support the government and vote on the basis of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. People's Deputy Kurpil, Timoshenko Street.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u32	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! This law is long overdue, it has no doubt to be taken as a basis, it needs minor work and, I hope, we will accept it very quickly in general. Now the freedom of the journalist and his duties are fixed or dispersed in many bills. And it's very good that this bill concentrates everything on the same law, and it's very important that we have responsibility for violating and hindering journalistic activity. The benefits of this law are also that journalists are also responsible for the abuse of freedom of the press and freedom of speech. So I urge all my colleagues to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u33	Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, it's not as simple as we've been told. On the one hand, we really need to improve legislation on the media, but on the other hand, we need to make sure that there is no ambiguity. Here, please listen to what is proposed to be excluded from a whole series of legislative acts. The rights and responsibilities of the editorial journalist on printed press media are excluded from the entire section. The protection and protection of journalists in the performance of their duties has been excluded. A professional journalist who conducts his duties is under legal and social protection. Honor, dignity, and integrity are protected by law. The authors suggest that this be taken away. The authors suggest that the deliberate obstruction of the law’s professional activity of journalists and the persecution of journalists for carrying out professional duties of criticism performed by an official or a group of persons under prior conspiracies entail criminal responsibility under the Criminal Code. [[or]] A whole chapter is excluded, and a whole chapter is excluded where public media support is involved. We have this law, and in this law on State support, on State support was the chapter “Organization of social protection for journalists and the specificities of their working relationships”. The chapter is completely taken away, that is, completely confiscated by the State of the rights guaranteed to them by the journalist. So I suggest, let's at least send this bill for further work. It can't be adopted in this way, because it's not about protecting journalists, it's about against journalists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Hanna Herman, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, the committee's decision was to support it, but I would like to express my personal opinion that this bill should be sent for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Law on the Protection of Professional Activities of Journalists. [[Registration number 2636]] Please vote. Based on the base. [[16:35:13]] For-198 The decision is not taken. Second sentence, send to read again. The committee supports this proposal? Well, please, it's Gunny Herman's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u38	My idea is to send this bill for work.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u39	I mean, for the first time again.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u40	To read again, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u41	I am voting on this proposal to re-read the draft Law on the Protection of Professional Activity of Journalists. [[16:36:03]] For 368 Decision taken. The draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the determination of the order and duration of certain categories of documents is submitted for consideration. The reporter is Deputy Minister of Culture and Tourism, Yakovina Mikola Mihajlovich. Associate Head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship Valery Petrovich Gacko
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u42	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Ukraine's draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the determination of the order and time limits of certain categories of documents is prepared by the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The draft law provides for amendments to Ukraine's laws: the Ukrainian Act on State Registration of Legal and Physical Persons, Entrepreneurs and the Ukrainian Act on National Compulsory State Social Insurance against Accidents in Production and Occupational Diseases that have Caused Loss of Employment. [[Article 42]] The need for amendments to existing legislation proposed in the bill is that the rules laid down in those laws conflict with the Ukrainian Act on the National Archives and Archives. In line with the legislation currently in force with State archives, legal and natural persons should be brought into the register for a period of up to 75 years of storage and insurance payments for permanent storage. [[entrepreneurs]] However, these documents have no cultural value and should not be submitted to the National Archives Foundation and transferred to the State Archives. Hundreds of thousands of registrations held today by registrars cannot be accepted for temporary storage for 75 years to State archives, since 95 percent of these cases are not National Archives. In addition, insurance payments are part of individual documents and are not transferred to State archives at all. The adoption of the bill will allow the elimination of contradictions in existing legislative acts, determine the order in which certain categories of documentation are stored, optimize its retention periods. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u43	Thank you, Mikhailovich. Have a seat, please. Valerius Petrovich Gacko is the head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u44	The President-in-Office of the President of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship at its meeting on 4 April 2008 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[determining the order and duration of certain categories of documents]] The purpose of the bill is to eliminate contradictions in existing legislation regarding the order of storage of two types of documents: registration and insurance payments cases, and to optimize their retention periods. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion to the bill, found that the first reading of the bill could be adopted on the basis of comments and suggestions made. They support the adoption of this bill and the National Deputies, members of the Committees on Culture and Spirituality and Social Policy and Work, from which letters came to our committee. During the discussion of the bill, members of the committee supported the proposals of the Cabinet of Ministers regarding the inadequacy of the existence of a single State register of legal and physical persons from enterprises for the preservation of registration of economic operators and the need for the preservation of registrations related to insurance payments at the Social Insurance Fund. Taking into account the above, the members of the committee took a decision: the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the determination of the order and time-limits for the storage of certain categories of documents submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to submit to the Supreme Council and to propose that it be accepted as a basis. [[Registration number 2402]] Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u45	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, are there any warnings about this bill? Who insists on the discussion? The point is to dismantle the archives and make appropriate decisions. So I'm voting on a proposal for adoption based on the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws to define the order and duration of certain categories of documents. Please vote. [[16:41:04]] For 365 Decision taken. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u46	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Yuri Carmazin. I took the floor when preparing for second reading to ask the question that we are already living in a completely different century. You don't have to keep the papers, but you can scan them and upload them to a computer database, and that's what you have to do when you talk about documents being destroyed because they have them. may be useful when people ask questions about the details of what was involved, so no doubt the computer database will take up neither the place nor the storage place. Problem keeping them, it will improve the law and do so as has already been done in many civilized countries, i.e. it needs to be added, and the data on these documents is added to the computer database by scanning the texts of these documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Chief Research Authority has made such remarks to the draft of this law, I ask you to listen. They're purely technical. In order to clarify the content, we propose in a new edition of article 42 of the Ukrainian Act, “On mandatory public social insurance against accidents in manufacturing and occupational diseases that have caused loss of work”, the word “patients” should be replaced by “patients” and the words “interested persons” should be replaced by the words “other persons who have the right to pay”. [[project item 2]] So maybe if the committee didn't object, we would take these proposals into account the technical nature of the Scientific and Scientific Administration and adopt this law as a law as a whole. What is there to refer to the second reading? Let's take it from your offer. The committee supports this approach? Please, Natalie Royal, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u48	Dear colleagues! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! The Committee supports your proposal not to waste time and, indeed, to help all our archival institutions today, and at the same time, we will be pleased to hear Jury Anatolievich Karmazin's suggestions, because we are already in a totally different place. The age of information opportunities and in order to avoid cluttering rooms and cluttering people with jobs that are not effective but are labour-intensive enough. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u49	Thank you. Anatoly Matvienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u50	Ukrainian Republican Party, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Vladimir Mikhailovich, this is about the fate of the people. And I think it's so simplified, the more out of the voice, we don't have the right to make any decisions. Let's maybe take this as a simplified procedure, but really, let's do the second reading procedure -- and we'll pass the law that's to be passed out, with the corresponding amendments. Now out of vote, the more I agree that these people may have certain claims, obviously we have to take into account in second reading the right of these people to confirm a step in their lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u51	Respectful colleagues, since there are objections, cannot be put in place for adoption in the final edition. Please work. The draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the issue of operating permits is under consideration. Registration number 3227. The rapporteur is Minister of Agricultural Policy Melnik Yuri Fedorovich. The Coroner is the head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship of the Royal Natalia Jurijovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u52	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The purpose of the bill, which is proposed for your consideration, is to agree on the rules on the granting of licences provided for in the three laws relating to the production of food products, namely the Law on the Safety and Quality of Foods, the Law on Milk and Milk Products, the Law on Fish and Other Water Living Resources and Food Production among themselves, as well as the requirements of the Law on the Free System of Economic Activities. The bill consists of three parts and provides for: firstly, the amendment of the Law on Fish, Other Water Living Resources and Food Products of These Parts, as part of the clarification of authorisations for processing of fishery products in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Safety and Quality of Food. The second part of the bill to clarify the procedure for issuing a permit in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Safety and Quality of Foods amends article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Milk, Milk Products, which stipulates that the power to produce milk and milk raw materials will be granted by the Chief State Inspector of Veterinary Medicine and for milk processing enterprises, the Chief State Health Officer, according to the authority. The third part of the project provides for a substantial revision of articles 22, 23 of the Ukrainian Food Safety and Quality Act, in accordance with the requirements of the Law on the Free System in the Field of Economic Activity, namely: it provides for the addition of article 22 to the positions that regulate the issue of the granting of permits, specify the conditions for refusal or cancellation of the granting of operating permits by public services. The draft law also provides that the costs collected from the issuance and renewal of operating permits for capacity-building, processing and implementation of food products are included in the National Budget of Ukraine. As a result of the adoption of the bill, it is expected: first, the harmonization of the rules of law in force; second, the formation of a more transparent and understandable mechanism for manufacturers to issue permits and cancel them and avoid duplication of functions between the relevant public services. People's deputies, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u53	Natalia Yuriovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u54	Honourable colleagues, respected by Vladimir Mihajlovich, are invited to your attention to amend certain Ukrainian laws concerning the issue of operating permits, registration number 3227. The bill is necessary to bring food safety requirements into line with the requirements of State control and food surveillance today. The final aim of the bill should be to protect the health of Ukrainian citizens. But only the committee would immediately like to warn everyone, subject to further refinement, of its substantial refinement to second reading. The bill harmonizes with the Law on the Business Authorisation System, the Law on the Safety and Quality of Foods, on Milk and Milk Products, on Fish, Other Water Living Resources and Food Products. In addition to technical clarifications, the bill clearly states the grounds for refusing to grant an operating permit to an operator of capacity in the production of products that are controlled by the health service. Such grounds may be: the first is a case of food poisoning, acute bowel infections or other diseases caused by products produced at such facilities over the past six months. Recorded evidence is dangerous or unusable, the failure of the operator of the facility to carry out an inspection, failure to comply with its requirements and orders. There is also a list of grounds for refusal to produce veterinary products: quarantine, refusal of inspection by the operator of the facility, failure by the operator to comply with the regulations, orders issued as a result of the planned and unplanned inspection. In the view of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, a draft law on the results of the first reading could be adopted as a basis. The Committee proposes that the draft law be adopted on first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, no warning? Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u56	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Honorary colleagues, on the one hand, deserve the attention of the Cabinet of Ministers to simplify certain types of business activities. But I would like to pay attention and ask, really, to accept, if accepted, to accept it only in the first reading, to pay attention to what is being simplified. Now part of the license is given by the service. It is suggested that this should not be done by the veterinary or the epidemiological services, but by the Chief Medical Officer of a particular service, who has the right to grant personal permits. I think it's going to have to be taken seriously enough to consider whether or not to claim the right to serve as a collegiate body to a personal body. There will be many and many abuses. And second moment. Where a perfectly fair addition is made to the one who refuses is more faithful, on the basis of which he refuses, it is again clear that not one doctor gives such a refusal, but the entire ministry. And this will have to be taken into account in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, there are no other warnings? None. Who? Hand, please, can't I see who's there? Kirilchuk and Tereshuk. Please, Kirilczuk, and then Tereshuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u58	Thank you. Kirilchuk. Party of the Fatherland, “Clock of the Yulia Timoshenko”. You can see that the law no longer contains milk, but milk products, not written down, “milk is the basis of all kinds of products produced in processing enterprises,” and people are now called milk, not milk. If this fluid is set to decompose and make a work, it will never be there. This is what the first reading should say, but the second reading should seriously ensure control after permission has been granted. The permit was obtained, and the milk liquid is then released, not dairy products.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u59	Sergei Tereshuk microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u60	Sergei Tereshuk “Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues, we talk a lot about the need to increase food production, which is usually the right thing to do. But at the same time, according to the World Health Organization, life expectancy in Ukraine depends on the environment, health care, and most of all on the quality of food. The law is far from being called perfect. But at the same time, we, members of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, have analyzed the faction of the “Block of Lithuania”, and we ask for support in the first reading, and then the comments that Adam Ivanovich, Eugene Kirilczuk, has spoken about, we will work on, we will make changes and we will get a law that will, to some extent, enable us to control the quality of production that remains extremely low today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u61	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the issue of operating permits. [[Registration number 3227]] Please vote. [[16:54:07]] For 358 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to make the working atmosphere a little quieter. The draft Law on Amendments to the Forest Code of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Free System of Economic Activities is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 3578]] The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the State Forestry Committee, Marchuk Yuri Mikolaiovich. The Coroner is the head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship of the Royal Natalia Jurijovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u62	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! In line with the Law on Free Trade, changes have been made to the Forest Code of Ukraine, which is primarily called upon to settle issues of the issuance of permits. These are changes to the 69 articles of the Code of Forests, which provide: First, the issuance of permits for logging tickets is made on a free basis. [[forest ticket]] The time limit in which documents are considered to issue this ticket is not more than one place. There are reasons why a forest ticket or a forest ticket cannot be issued. There are reasons why this ticket can be cancelled. Article 78 of the Code of Forest provides for the cancellation of such a ticket as a soft forest product permit, since it is not foreseen by the Law on Economic Activities. Thus, the proposed changes simplify the procedure, regulate the relationship in the field of farming, and bring the Forest Code into line with the adopted Law on Free Trade. This bill is being considered in all ministries and departments, supported by committees. Please support him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u63	Thank you, Natala Juryovna Royal. Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u64	Dear colleagues! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! You and I know that our Ukrainian permit system really looks like a dark forest that you know how to enter, but when and in what condition you'll come up with a big question. This is partly the case because many of the legislation as a result does not work and has not been resolved by law. The same is true today with the bill, which we are considering, 3578, aimed at clarifying issues related to the issuance of permits, the so-called forestry and forestry tickets. Bill 3578 provides that these permits will be issued: the first, free, the second, clearly defined period during which extradition or refusal decisions are to be made and the grounds for refusal or cancellation are provided. Because today it is completely uncontrollable and is an additional ground for corruption. The draft law provides that a decision on extradition or refusal of authorization shall be taken within one month. The reason for refusing the issuance of documents may be the decision to change the division of forests into categories, to decide on the cessation of the activities of the forest user, to not set limits or to exceed them, and to fail to comply with the arrangements for extradition. The introduction of the proposed draft law does not require additional expenditure from the State budget of Ukraine and local budgets. According to the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the draft law could be adopted as a basis for consideration on first reading. The Industrial Policy and Enterprise Committee supports the decision of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office and proposes that the bill be adopted on first reading. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u65	Thank you! Dear colleagues! The report and the report are done. There are no observations in the conclusion of the Scientific and Expert Management, no observations in the decision of the Committee. So maybe let me put it as a base for starters, and then let's figure out, maybe we should take it as a whole. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Forestry Code in relation to the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Free System in the Field of Economic Activities. [[Registration number 3578]] Please vote. [[16:58:59]] For 370. Decision taken. Once again, dear colleagues, I remind you that the draft law has not been commented on by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. I'm reading the committee's decision, and there's no comment, so why don't we take it as a law? Is there no objection? I would like to vote on the adoption in the second reading and in general as a bill of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Forest Code of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Free System of Economic Activities. [[Registration number 3578]] Please vote. [[16:59:49]] For 367 The law is passed. The draft Law on Supplementing Article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Patenting of Certain Entrepreneurship Activities is announced, and the rapporteur is the Deputy Minister of Health Mitnik Zinovy Mikolaiovich, co-rapporteur, the head of the Royal Natalia Jurijovna Committee. [[on the scope of this law]] [[Registration number 4569]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u66	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! With the aim of improving rural security through medical devices and medical devices, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine has developed a draft Act supplementing article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Patenting of Certain Business Activities. [[on the scope of this law]] The draft law proposes to supplement Article 1, which provides a list of activities that are not covered by the Ukrainian Law on Patenting of Certain Business Activities, with the definition of pharmacies in communal property. The law does not extend to the activities of pharmacies owned by the State and located in villages, villages, and towns of district importance. The adoption of the law will allow for more clear and more explicit rules on the scope of the Ukrainian Law on the Patenting of Certain Business Activities and will help to eliminate the possibility of ambiguous interpretation, including by the State authorities of the provisions of part three of article 1 of the Act and not extend this law to communal pharmacies located in rural areas, as well as to create more favourable conditions for the development of an apothecary network in rural areas, including the municipality, which will in turn improve the provision of medical supplies and medical supplies to rural residents. The implementation of the draft regulation does not require additional material or other expenses. So please support and approve the proposed bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u67	Thank you. Have a seat, too. Natalia Juryovna Kraljevska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u68	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! To your attention, a bill clarifying the scope of the Ukrainian Law on the Patent of Certain Business Activities on Public Pharmacies is proposed. The current wording of the law places public utilities entirely in unequal conditions. Where did you and I see the government pharmacies in the countryside today? Nope. Thank God if they're able to at least support community pharmacies. It is therefore proposed that article 1 should read as follows: “The act of this law does not apply to commercial activities and domestic services. First. The company of military drugstores, which are owned by the State and utilities.” This issue is very important in social terms because the purchase of a patent automatically increases the value of a unit of goods today. The adoption of the bill today will make the rural population more affordable. That is, it will improve today's supply of medicines to the population during the crisis. We all understand that the medical situation, especially in rural areas, is traditionally difficult. And the infrastructure is very and very weak. It is therefore important to support at least those pharmacies that remain in the rural area today. The Committee agrees with article 1 of the bill and proposes the adoption of the bill as a whole as a law. At the same time, the Committee proposes to supplement the draft with a second paragraph, which provides that the law shall enter into force on the date of its publication. Thank you for your attention. Let's hope for backup.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, the committee's proposal to your acquaintance has been proved. It is suggested that one novel be introduced that it takes effect from the time of its publication. Well, they don't think it's going to affect the local budgets, regardless of what they're saying, so maybe we should give it to him, listen to the committee's proposals, and we'll take it. Is there no objection? So I'm putting to the vote, there's no objection to adopting the draft Act supplementing article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Patenting of Certain Business Activities. Please vote. [[17:04:52]] For 346 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, how would you respond to the proposal to add the point that the law takes effect from the time it was published and voted in the second reading and in general as a law? Please, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u70	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. It's worth supporting the proposal to accept it as a law, but I'd like to think about whether it's going into effect from the moment it's published. The fact is, this violates the Codex Budget. Because if we're taking down some kind of activity patent right now, so we're taking out patents for drugstores, that means we're not taking the money for a patent. True, we need to see how the Ministry of Health can help us to see how many such pharmacies can still be created. So if it's a small number, you can even accept this kind of treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u71	People's deputy Karpuk. Please, microphone, and then Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u72	We support the adoption of the law on the basis and in general, because, believe me, the number of these pharmacies that will still be, God willing to make them more communal in rural areas, and so this is a small budget loss, we need to support in general, not stretch this decision-making.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u73	Thank you. Yuri Anatolyevich and then Deputy Minister. Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u74	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear People's Deputies, Mr Vladimir Mikhailovich, I still hold to the fact that Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk's absolutely right offer, in accordance with the 64th article of the Budget Code, is not going to get there now. So we have to predict that we're going to be extermination. You had to lock up Minfin now, the budget committee was required. We don't have anything, we don't change. Therefore, it is not possible to adopt a law explicitly where to write “from the time of publication”. It can only be written “since 1 January 2010” to prepare and no one has counted on it. Because we are not only in violation of article 64, 103 of the Budget Code, and in the end we will come to the point of absurdity if we adopt laws that violate budget legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u75	Thank you. Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u76	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, Your Honor Yuri Anatoliovich, I ask you to withdraw your remark and support the proposal made by the Head of the Supreme Council. The law must take effect from the time of publication. What is the purpose of this law? Remove patents to expand the list of pharmacies. In the villages, pharmacies are closed, pharmacies are closed in the parks, and a pharmacy is closed in the Varv district of Chernigiv. [[district center]] I'm not talking about the villages anymore. Until January 1, 2010, there will be no pharmacy in the countryside at all. That's why the government has passed this bill to make the budget lose its patent fees, but they will win millions of citizens who will be able to buy the medicine because today they are deprived of it. So let's vote on this law, and let it take effect from the time it's published, and let people get access to drugs to at least buy them.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u77	Customs, please, Zinovy Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u78	For help, please. All pharmacies located in rural areas in the total number are 17 percent of the total number per country. If it's in absolute numbers, it's four thousand with a small pharmacy that works in the rural area directly. This is for help.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, 30 grand. How much village do we have? So let's make this progress: the committee proposes to add -- it takes effect from the time it's published. The Minister's office has been handed over. Apparently, he did not expect that this would have a significant impact on the local budgets. So let's make this decision and close it down. No objections? That is why I am voting on the proposal to adopt in the second reading and in general as the law of the draft Law supplementing the article of the first Ukrainian Law on the Patenting of Certain Business Activities with the addition: “The law takes effect from the time of publication”. [[Registration number 4569]] Please vote in favour of this law, the bill as a law, more specifically. [[17:10:02]] For 358 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, I ask that we continue the evening session for 15 minutes. We need to consider 12 more questions today. A draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the protection of social morality]] Rapporteur: National Deputy of Ukraine Hennaday Hennadiyovich Moskal, co-rapporteur, head of the Shemczuk Viktor Viktorovich subcommittee. Yes, please, Hennady Hennadiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u80	First of all, what is expressed by the adoption of this law?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u81	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u82	What about the silence? It has been caused, above all, by Ukraine’s recent leadership in child prostitution in Europe. The bill provides for the addition of the Criminal Code to article 301.1, which establishes responsibility for the production, storage, possession, acquisition and distribution of child pornography and other products that harm the morale of a society created by minors. At present, the national legislation of Ukraine lacks the definition of pornographic products produced by children or images of children, the issue of manufacturing, marketing, distribution, storage and advertising of such materials is dealt with in terms of criminal and legal resistance to the circulation of pornography in general and requires regulatory regulation and international standards. Thus, the current edition of article 301 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, which provides for the responsibility of importing, producing, transporting and other transfers for the purpose of sale or distribution, as well as for the sale and distribution of pornographic objects, does not provide for the characterization of the crime by way of its execution, particularly through the use of information and telecommunications systems, and by the object of child pornography itself, does not constitute an objective aspect of the crime associated with the circulation of pornographic products created by children who are engaged without the purpose of selling pornography objects, nor does it criminalize the preservation of advertising and the deliberate creation of conditions for access to the harvest.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u83	Yeah. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u84	sexual exploitation of children. Thus, the basic principles set out in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child to the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography and the European Council Convention on Cybercrime do not yet have an implementation mechanism established in the national legal field. Dear colleagues, please support and accept in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u85	Thank you, Hennady Hennadiovich. Have a seat, please. Victor Viktorovich Shemchuk. Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u86	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The committee considered a proposed bill to amend and supplement Ukraine’s Criminal Code on the protection of social morality. The need to adopt this bill is explained by the lack of efficiency in the Ukrainian Criminal Code of legal measures to prevent and combat offences that have a negative impact on social morality and the inappropriate level of punishment for such offences. On 19 November 2008, the Committee on Legislative Protection considered it and determined to support the bill, recommending that the Supreme Council accept it as a basis, with a view to the forthcoming legislative possibility of the Committee and the Supreme Council to remedy a number of shortcomings in its preparation for second reading parliamentary consideration. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u87	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this law, the draft law has been in the Supreme Council of Ukraine for over a year. We obviously need to be able to work on it so that the Supreme Council of Ukraine can make a final decision. And the committee, and the Science and Research Offices, are recommending that we take this project as a basis and prepare it for second reading. You don't have any warnings? None. Then I put this proposal to the vote, namely the adoption as the basis for the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on the protection of social morality]] Please vote. [[17:15:08]] For 361 Decision taken. Puts the vote to the vote. for consideration, excuse me, the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the establishment of responsibility for the violation of the rules of declaration of grain. [[Registration number 2152]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on the Legislative Protection of Sweden's Law Enforcement Activities, Viktor Dmitrovich. Please, Victor Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u88	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the establishment of responsibility for violations of the rules of declaration of grain. This draft law is designed to establish administrative responsibility for violations of legislation in the declaration of grain by operators who are involved in the preservation and are obliged to declare it at the proper time in accordance with the applicable legislation and regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. In connection with this, two new articles are proposed in the Code of Administrative Offences: Article 104 of the Code of Administrative Offences on the Responsibility of Natural Persons of Owners and Officials for Violations of the Order of Demarcation of Grain, Failure, or Untimely Submission of a Declaration on the Volume of Grain or Inclusion in the Declaration of Inadequate or Indefensible Data, as well as Article 244 of the Statute on the Bodies of Executive Authorities in the field of the Declaration of Grains, which is entitled to deal with administrative offences and to impose administrative charges. Such bodies are inspections of the quality and resource formation of agricultural products of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the district and Sevastopol City State Administrations. The adoption of this law will enable State executives to establish clear and efficient work on the declaration of grain and to obtain full and reliable information each month on the available quantities of grain in the country. A committee on law enforcement at its meeting on March 19, 2008, decided to recommend the Supreme Reed to enact the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u89	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u90	The main science-expert management is of the same opinion. Please be supportive. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, it seems to me that if the Supreme Council does not object, this law can be adopted as a whole, since there is a need to make a few such minor terminology changes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u91	Yeah. Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, if there is a need for discussion, sign up for the discussion. a record is being held. May I have the name of the national MPs on the board? Sergey Tereshuk and Yuri Karmazin Sergei Tereshuk, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u92	There are, of course, many questions about this bill. But at the same time, I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that it's the declaration of grain, the reliable information about the availability of grain in the state, that's not just prevention or food security, but this is the way to set a normal price, it's the way to form a price. Therefore, the faction of the “Block of Lithuania” proposes to support in the first reading, and then to make its remarks with the fact that in our country they are not guided by the statements made by the Minister of Agricultural Policy or by a politician who went out on the stand and said that we have very many grains in stock or there is not, that we have a very good crop or there will be none. And then there's either the price jumps or the price goes down. So we suggest that we take the first reading, make our proposals and have a bill and order of declaration of grain.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u93	Thank you. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, microphone Oh, you'll be from the rostrum. From the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u94	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, I ask myself, who is this law against or what is it going to give the economy? Yeah, he's gonna put everybody in there to declare it because he's gonna be serious. Who? Citizen. Who? Those who produce this very grain. But I will definitely oppose, my dear friends, who are “in favour” of this law now, against these peasants being penalized by those fines that are more than three times the minimum amount of fine for committing crimes. For administrative misconduct, it's probably too much. And we can probably just strangle these people, just strangle the ones that grew this crop, they grew it. And we're not talking about why they hid it, how they twisted it. And we're fines bigger than the Criminal Code. That's impossible. That's not possible in law theory. And we're saying that we're going to accept it. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like us to just think about it, because if that's what this is all about. On the one hand, we haven't missed this law with you once, if you know. We didn't miss it once. So I think the sanctions have to be completely changed. I remind you, this fine is so serious. And as for 244, God is with her, with the 16th badge, organs of agricultural quality, but I would ask that this bill be passed, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, not through an agrarian committee, but through the legal committees, and including seriously looking at the appropriate punishments. Because we're going to punish people who make grain.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u95	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. He was going through a committee of law enforcement. Dear colleagues, the bill has been discussed, and I am voting on the committee's proposal. On the adoption as a basis of the Draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the establishment of responsibility for the violation of the rules of declaration of grain. [[Registration number 2152]] Please vote. [[17:22:35]] For 318 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the committee has offered to accept it as a whole, along with warnings, and since there are warnings, let us make such a decision. Instruct him to work with a reduced procedure and submit him to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Victor Dmitrovitch, you're like the author and the committee. Please. Microphone Sweden Victor Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, I have proposed in my Draft Law that administrative responsibility be set at between 30 and 100 untaxed minimums. And the Chief Research Administration wrote, made a mistake and wrote that the bill proposes to establish responsibility from 30 to 1,000, which is the first problem. Secondly, I would like to remind my distinguished colleagues that this law has already been passed in the first and second readings of the fifth call of the Supreme Council. And it wasn't signed by the President just because the Supreme Council had been suspended. It's fully worked there are two little terminology changes that we can now make. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u97	Dear colleagues! Really, if you look at it. Microphone, Sweden Victor Dmitrovitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u98	Dear colleagues! This law does not establish the procedure for the declaration of grain, and this law lays down the responsibility for violating the declaration of grain. Since the issue of the declaration of grain is established by another law, it is in force today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u99	Dear colleagues! Here, indeed, there was a variation because it was in the law itself that wrote between 30 and 100 untaxed minimums. And the science-expert administration wrote from 30 to 1,000 -- and there was an appropriate variance. So how are we going to do this? Since there are warnings, let's make a decision on the reduced procedure for the next plenary week to bring it up. Because all the other adjustments and observations are technical. Please remove them and we will accept them. I am voting on this proposal: to prepare for the second reading of this bill under a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:25:11]] For 190 The decision is not taken. Let's make this happen, the committee will be ready for the Conciliation Council, we'll make a decision and we'll take it up in the second reading. A draft law on the principles of Ukraine's internal and external policies is being announced for consideration. [[Registration numbers 1117, 1117-1]] The rapporteurs are Ukrainian national deputies Peter Mikolaiovich and Konovaluk Valerius Illich. Coroner is the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of Belarus, Oleg Grigorovitch. Please, Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u100	Dear colleagues! In accordance with article 85, paragraph 5, of the first article of the Constitution, we must adopt with you the Law on Basic Principles of Internal and External Policy. The purpose of this law is to be fundamental in the drafting of legislative and other regulatory acts. Since 1996, the Supreme Council's debt to the Constitution and to the people of Ukraine. This led to the fact that the vast majority of the laws passed work for a powerful oligarchy capital, not for the people of Ukraine. What is the basis for the basic principles that I have proposed? They're based on the equivalency of different forms of property in the preservation of the people of the land, the nadr and the strategic industries, and they predict the development of the most advanced high-tech manufacturing, the restructuring and modernization of the metallurgical, fuel-energy, machine-building, rocket-building, ship-building, aircraft-building. These principles are primarily designed to extend long-term credit and interest rates, create investment banks, strengthen control by the National Bank over commercial banks. For 5-7 years, the return of legally defined indices of undervalued labour savings. It's also a constraint on the level of wholesale and retail prices, it's also about maintaining the standard of living and protecting wages from that amount of labor invested, producing one or the other, it's supporting our peasants. Among the provisions that provide for the principles, this is the size of the pension depending on the size of the employment contribution, this is the construction of housing for young families, this Russian language has a second state language status. Ukraine's out-of-block neutral status, Ukraine's entry into a single economic space, the decline in our nation's import dependence. I'm just talking so carefully about the basic principles of this project, because we have a very short procedure, and unfortunately I don't have the ability to fully express our basic positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u101	All right, Peter Mikolaiovich? Well, then, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u102	That's how I ended it. I told you. And I would like you to support the people's deputies in this draft of the Law on the Basic Principles of Internal and External Policy. Then, on the second reading, we will work out the suggestions you will make.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u103	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich! Valérie Ilch Konovaluk is there? None. Please, Oleg Grigorovich Belarus. Leonid Kojara is the first deputy head of the Committee in foreign affairs. Did I get it right?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u104	Yes. Yes. Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Law 1117 aims to create a legislative framework for determining the basic orientations of internal and external policies in their unity and interrelationship and regulates, inter alia, tax, price, monetary, budgetary, agrarian, social policy, the role of the State in its implementation, as well as the priorities of foreign policy, national security and defence, etc. According to an explanatory note signed by the Ukrainian national deputy, Petar Mikolaiovich Simononka, the adoption of the bill does not require additional expenses from the Ukrainian State Budget. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion, recommends rejecting the draft law on the principles of Ukraine's internal and external policies as a result of the first reading. The conclusion states, inter alia, that more provisions of the bill are not a rule of law and go beyond the subject of legal regulation of the proposed draft. The project also contains a number of provisions that do not comply with the Constitution and do not comply with the rules of law in force. The Economic Policy Committee proposes to submit a bill for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for decision in the Chamber. The Committee on Budget Affairs concluded that the project had a direct impact on the State budget of Ukraine. The Committee on Budget Affairs notes that the Ministry of Finance does not support the bill as proposed. The Committee on Foreign Affairs at its meeting on 3 June 2009 considered the bill and, by a majority of votes, decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to reject it in view of the inadequacy of part of the provisions of the bill of the Constitution and of the current legislation of Ukraine, and in view of the declarant nature of most articles of the draft law. Besides, the committee thinks so.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u105	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u106	The committee considers it appropriate to draw up two separate bills on the principles of internal and foreign policy. Please take into account the opinion of the committee when considering this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u107	And please, the committee's decision on the second bill by Valery Konovaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u108	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The Committee also considered a second bill with the same title, “On the principles of Ukraine's internal and external policies”. The purpose of defining the principles of Ukraine's internal and foreign policy is to establish the single foundations and principles of state policy, which shape the State's development strategy, lays down the basis for the development of legislative and other legal acts that apply to all spheres of the internal and external policy of the State. According to the Explanatory Note signed by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Konovaluk, the adoption of the bill requires the costs of the National and Local Budgets of Ukraine, the funds of Ukraine's pension and other social funds, which should be included annually in the corresponding budgets by the targeted method. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion, recommends that the draft law be rejected as a result of the first reading. The conclusion states, inter alia, that most of the provisions of the draft law are not rules of law and go beyond the subject of legal regulation of the proposed draft. The project also contains a number of provisions that do not comply with the Constitution of Ukraine and do not comply with the rules of current legislation. The Economic Policy Committee proposes a legislative review of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for decision-making in the Chamber. The Committee on Budget Affairs concluded that the bill had a direct impact on the State budget of Ukraine. The national deputy of Ukraine, Sharov, made proposals to edit the individual provisions of the bill. At the same time, the Committee on Foreign Affairs at its meeting on June 3, 2009, reviewed the bill and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to reject it. Please take into account the opinion of the committee when considering the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion. It's a recording. That's all right, thank you. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u110	Parish, Parish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u111	Guys, please. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u112	Paribay Andrey, “For Ukraine! ” We would like to point out that this bill is more like the political programme of the Communist Party of Ukraine than a bill that can be seen in the Supreme Council as a document that can match the foreign and domestic policy of our nation. It seems that the bill was specifically passed provocatively to raise in this room the forgotten topics of Russian second language as a national, about Ukraine’s status, about its neutrality. In particular, article 17 of this law states that, taking into account the real application of Russian in Ukrainian society, Russian should be granted state status throughout Ukraine. At the same time, we know that this is contrary to article 10 of the Constitution. That is, it is suggested that a law be passed that deliberately violates the Constitution and that we be asked to vote on it in the Hall. Article 18 of the bill, which defines the foreign policy course of the State, states that Ukraine upholds non-block and neutral status. This is not only absurd, because it is generally defined not by the State itself, but by the States that surround it, but clearly contradicts the current Ukrainian legislation, such as the Supreme Council's Decree on the Basic Directions of Foreign Policy of 2 July 1993, and the Ukrainian National Security Act of 19 June 2003, the National Security Strategy approved by the President's Decree of 12 February 2007. Therefore, the parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” suggests rejecting the bill and voting against it because the document deliberately violates the laws in Ukraine and deliberately provokes tension and international hostility. The parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” calls for all to vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u113	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, Communist faction. Vladimir Yavorowski will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, I thank the previous speaker for having pointed out that, in fact, the Communist Party adheres to its programming principles that it adheres to those programs that make promises to its voters. And on the basis of the pre-election programme, it introduces a programme of activities across our nation. I will remind you again, please see paragraph 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, paragraph five, which says that the main thrusts of the Supreme Council’s activities include the definition of the basic principles of internal and external politics. I am surprised that the committee that considered this issue says that these principles violate the Constitution. At the same time, they propose to adopt two different laws: the principles of domestic politics separately and the principles of foreign policy separately. Read the Constitution, it clearly states: The basic principles of internal and external politics. This position is not divided there. That's the first one. Secondly, those who say that this law is declarative, it must be declarative in the sense that what should be fundamental in the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers, in the activities of our nation as a whole, which should be the internal and external policies of this state. I would like to suggest that if we are going to have a review of the current Constitution, if we are going to make some separate positions and changes there, we should probably write down that the activities of the Supreme Council begin with one Act, which is the basic principles of internal and external policy. If there are no such principles, there is nothing to work on because we do not know where to go or what to offer. I would like to support you in the first reading. Those anticonstitutional positions that are there will be taken into account in the second reading. Otherwise, we have nothing to move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u115	Vladimir Aleksandrovich Yavorowski, faction of the “Julia Timoshenko Block”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u116	Dear voters, distinguished nationals! I would very much like this question not to bring a big detonation into our work, it's very important. First. Today we have an active law on the basics of our internal and external politics. There's this law, it's adopted, we're still living and working, because it's not accepted yet. So there's a logical question, where, by the way, there's a lot of European values that someone agrees with or disagrees with. But if we're adopting another law, that is to say, is there any further development of those ideas that were set up in those previous documents that we were discussing, is this a novelty, is this a new development of the Ukrainian state, let's say, in these bills? Too bad. There are many good things here, indeed. Let's say Peter Mikolaiovich's bill likes this position very much, and it's very clear that we have to make amendments to the Constitution, because we're different from this dualism of power, otherwise we'll never go out who we don't elect as president regardless of the personnel. It's in this bill, and it's very good. But from another point of view, actually this law, this is not progressing forward, it's pushing our backs. Well, I can't understand why we had to make a declaration here that had long since been suppressed by the Independence Act? So I understand very well what this is about the neutral status of Ukraine. That is, some of these minefields are quietly placed in these bills. Exactly the same is true in the law of Konovaluka. That's why I understand that this is the position of every national MP -- that they've done a very big job. I, by the way, don't like the fact that these declarations are there. What are they supposed to be? These are the main postulates that declare the basic slogans. Because of this, not the weakness of this bill, but the fact that it is actually very trendy and one.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u117	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u118	Yulia Timoshenko's Block cannot vote for both of these bills. And we won't vote for them.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u119	Yes, we've finished the discussion. The replica. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that this is a debt of the Supreme Council since 96 before the Constitution and the people of Ukraine. Secondly, none of the draft laws has the right to be drafted unless it is based on the basic principles that we now propose. Thirdly, I would like to draw the attention of the speakers to the fact that, in the Declaration of State Sovereignty of our Ukraine, it has been approved by the people of Ukraine in a referendum, and therefore none of the laws can reverse this Declaration, and it just provides for the positions that I, as the author of the bill, have introduced, because it is the will of the Ukrainian people as to which he wants to pursue politics in the independent state of Ukraine. Next. I would like to draw attention once again, fellow honourable Members, that this bill is really a law for the people of Ukraine, because it provides for the protection of their rights and freedoms to work? For life, for wages, for retirement, and for many other social issues that this law provides as a foundation. That's why I'm calling for backup.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u121	Thank you. Dear colleagues, everything, discussion. All signed up, the discussion is over, dear colleagues. No, there's no motive. What? What? Well, they didn't call it a faction. Well, please, dear colleagues, sign up. You don't take notes, then you ask. Positions are obvious. Dear colleagues, we have repeatedly approached the need to work out the basic principles of internal and external politics. There was a suggestion that we should create a temporary special commission to process this document. At the same time, this proposal has not been supported -- and today we have this situation: improvisations, political improvisations in Ukraine are brought into the ranks of state policy. And we really need to listen to what Adam Martinyuk said: that the Supreme Council should start its work by adopting the principles of internal and external politics. Then it is quite obvious that no one will be the State’s propeller to spin in all directions of his broad soul. Thus, honourable colleagues are the first to vote: the adoption as a basis of the draft Law on the Principles of Domestic and Foreign Policy of Ukraine, author, author, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko. [[Registration number 1117]] Please vote. [[17:43:34]] For-46 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on voting: on the adoption of the draft Law on the principles of Ukraine's internal and foreign policy. [[Registration number 1117-1]] [[17:44:02]] For 128 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on voting for re-reading the drafts of the law, registration number 1117, 1117-1. Let's do it again. [[17:44:28]] For-179 The decision is not taken. Bills are rejected. Dear colleagues, a draft law amending article 41 of the master procedural code of Ukraine is being introduced. [[on the appointment of forensic expertise]] The rapporteur is Ukrainian National Deputy Yuri Romanovich Miroshnichenko, co-rapporteur of the Justice Committee, Pritika Dmitry Mikitović.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u122	Dear voters, distinguished colleagues. Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. In fact, it's a very simple law. I think it's going to be supported by most of the audience in the hall, because it's about organizing expert work, forensic expertise. The point is that the current edition of article 41 of the Master’s Procedural Code provides for the conduct of judicial expertise to be entrusted to competent organizations or directly experts who have the necessary expertise to do so, says the article. What do I propose in this bill? So to be clear, this is a specialist. And this is as follows: experts are to be carried out by specialized agencies or directly by persons who meet the requirements set out in the Ukrainian Judicial Expertise Act and have been introduced into the State Register of Certified Forensic Experts. It's a very simple law. The point is that unconscionable trial participants sometimes involve experts who are not responsible for the quality of the experts they propose. With these proposed changes, we are actually removing similar precedents. A register of subjects that can carry out expert studies will be drawn up, and in this way, and the expertise that goes to court will be provided with quality, including during the registration and licensing of such experts or organizations. I'm not going to take your time because I'm proposing to adopt this bill in the first reading. And maybe for a second reading, as science-expert management suggests, to make adjustments to the Law on Judicial Expertise, so that we can also agree on these standards, although it's pretty clear there. Dear colleagues, I propose to support this bill in the first reading, which will provide more quality approval.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u123	Thank you. And if you take these comments into account, you can accept them immediately. Is it not?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u124	Let's put it on the ground.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u125	Whatever you say. Dmitry Mikitovich Pritika, please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u126	The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice, having considered the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 41 of the Ukrainian Economic and Procedural Code on the appointment of forensic experts, notes the following. [[Registration number 1088]] The purpose of the bill is to ensure the quality and impartial conduct of forensic expertise and participation as experts of persons who meet the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on Judicial Expertise. The project aims at remedying shortcomings in the Ukrainian Code of Procedure, which does not contain requirements for persons who are appointed as experts by the court to conduct judicial expertise. The bill proposes to amend part three of Article 41 of the Code of Master and Procedural Procedure, which regulates the procedure for the appointment and conduct of judicial expertise, and to establish that the conduct of judicial expertise should be entrusted to specialized agencies or persons who meet the requirements of the Ukrainian law on judicial expertise and are included in the national register of certified judicial experts. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council's apparatus, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, supports the bill and believes that it can be accepted on the basis of the comments made. For reasons of objectivity, I would like to say that the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, considers the proposed changes to be of no value, since the Ukrainian law on forensic expertise also provides for the right of other experts from the relevant fields and knowledge to participate in judicial expertise, and the proposed changes limit the rights of all specialists. After discussing the bill, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 41 of the Code of Masters and Procedures. [[on the appointment of forensic expertise]] Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u127	Thank you, Dmitri Mikitovich. Dear colleagues, there will be no warning if we put to the vote the committee's proposal to accept it only as a basis for further work. None. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending article 41 of the master procedural code of Ukraine. [[on the appointment of forensic expertise]] [[Registration number 1088]] Please vote. [[17:49:59]] For 349 Decision taken. The draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on the non-implementation of falsified court decisions]] The reporter is the head of the Justice Committee's Subcommittee, Novikov Yuli Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u128	The project is proposed in order to prevent the execution of falsified court decisions, to grant the State Executive Service the right to access the information resources of the single State registry of judicial decisions and to oblige the designated service to carry out a review of the relevant court decision before opening the enforcement service. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice at its meeting on December 24, last year, considered Bill 2277 and came to the following conclusions. According to the committee, making the proposed changes is useless for some reasons. First, the adoption of the bill may result in the complexity of the work of the public authorities, the executive services and the delay in the opening of the implementing implementation. It is simply inappropriate to check all court decisions and implementing documents. Perhaps if such a test is needed at all, it should be limited to those implementing documents and decisions that raise doubts about the truth. Or in certain categories of corporate disputes where such falsifications occur more often. Secondly, in order to properly implement the aforementioned draft law, there was a need to provide State Iconic Services with adequate technical resources, which would entail considerable costs from the State budget. In addition, the proposed article 23-1 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Enforcement of the Implementation” does not correspond to the tasks and functions of the State enforcement service, since the latter should verify that a court decision is not available in a single national register, but that the enforcement document is appropriate to a court decision. A number of comments were made by the GNEU of the Supreme Council’s apparatus.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u129	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u130	In view of all these observations, the Committee reached a conclusion and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Bill No. 2277, submitted by the Ukrainian National MP Feldman on the results of the first reading to return to work. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u131	Thank you! Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues! The report is made thoroughly, perhaps this is the way we will do it. I'm going to put a proposal to the vote on acceptance as a basis, and then, if the first proposal is not supported, then we're going to put it up for discussion. Is there no objection? Please. Then let's write this down, because we still have a number of important bills to consider. Please sign in. Put the names of the national MPs on the board. Paul Silent. You don't? Please, let's move on. Dear colleagues, you can't do that either. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u132	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. Ladies and gentlemen, for the first time in this office, I'm going to express my opinion by being on the Justice Committee, which is going to contradict the decision of the official committee and I'm going to express it that way. At the confirmation of one of the judges in office, the citizens approached us and said that he could not be confirmed because he had approved the raids. When we looked at it, it was about dumping land for tens of millions of dollars, not bracelets, in the coastal strip of the city of Odessa. When they started to work on it, it turned out that the judge's decision had not been taken, the decisions had been fabricated, the criminal case had been investigated by the district attorney's office of Odessa, two years had been investigated, no one had investigated it, and after this falsified decision, the land had been reselled three times, and it had been used in a different way instead of a recreational zone. Now there's a similar case, I don't know whether it's a real decision or not, but ten citizens have applied for a summons to the city council, no one's seen those lawsuits, a decision taken by the Kyiv court of Odessa and two hectares handed down by judges' decisions, and in one night they've been twisted by the Land Fund. Therefore, dear friends, those suggestions that are here in this law expressed by the National MP Feldman on the addition of article 23, where the inclusion of a court decision in the Single State Register deserves full support. They need to be taken, and this is an opposition to the registration that is flourishing today, including through false court decisions. I ask you to vote and support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u133	Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u134	It was a pity that the previous colleague had just filed against the bill, and he devoted all his enthusiasm to the need to uphold it. Dear colleagues, I am completely in solidarity with the examples of my colleague Karmazin. These are examples of mass. I completely agree with the idea of my colleague Feldman, who proposes to accept some changes in legislation. But unfortunately, there is also the reverse of the medal in this bill. If we accept it in this way, we'll get to the next one. Which one of you knows justice, which one of you knows what the State Register of Judgments is? He knows that half the court's decisions don't apply to this register. And everyone realizes that it will be very easy to arrange for the failure of such a decision to enter the State Register. I mean, the bailiff has to make sure that he still has the decision in the State Register. And whoever's interested in not being there can arrange for him not to be there. And that's what we want to do, and we're going to do it the other way around. So I'm supporting the idea of a profile committee that let's go ahead and get this law worked out, that is, for a second read.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u135	Vadim Koleschenko faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, in fact, let us not be absurd in the matter of combating raids. The non-executive function of the executive service cannot be imposed — it is an additional cost, and the executive service is still not doing what it is currently tasked with. Adam Ivanovich cited classic examples that are now used for raids. The question of a fictitious court decision is not so common and, according to the law, any transaction, at least 30, if made in the first transaction on the basis of a fictitious document, is declared invalid. The raids are not handled in this way. The judicial system must be reorganized by changing the judicial system by increasing the responsibility of the judges for the decision. And such a bill, he frankly doesn't give anything but a soap bubble. Once again, we're going to create puffed-up lips. And as to what we're doing, not doing the main thing, we're not changing the judicial system. We have effectively blocked two years of changes in the judicial system. We are not reforming the judicial system. And thanks to us, because of those who have blocked the law in this room three times, which has changed the judicial system, the law on the judiciary, we are thus not only encouraging, but we are putting the heat into the fight, not in the struggle, but in the destruction of land assets, and in the destruction of enterprises, in order to destroy respect for the judiciary. Therefore, this bill cannot be supported; we need to return to the question of voting on judicial reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, discussions. Please, Oleg Lazko. The faction was unable to register, but he has a right to speak. And no one else, no one was speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u138	Oleg Laszko, Yulia Block Timoshenko. The bill, proposed by our colleague Feldman Alexander Borisovich, is clearly worthy of respect and support. Listen to what the author has to say. He suggests that, before executing a judicial decision, the head of the State Executive Service should verify that there is a judicial decision in the Single State Register of Judgments. I think this rule will allow me to avoid when, on the basis of falsified court decisions, people take property, land, resell it three times a week, and then try to find the extremes. So, of course, we need to support this bill, and it will allow us to avoid the abuse of executive powers. And the main thing is to stop the raiders from knocking on false courts in one night and the state's executioner is standing by tomorrow with that decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I am betting on voting the first proposal to adopt a draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws to prevent the execution of forged court decisions. [[Registration number 2277]] [[18:01:34]] For-167 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a second motion to return the subject to the legislative initiative of the draft law. I'd like to make up my mind. [[18:02:01]] For 172 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. Dear colleagues, let us consider another project in connection with our continuing work for 15 minutes. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons to prevent the use of State Registration Authorities in raid schemes. Rapporteur – Ukrainian National Deputy Voropejev Yuri Mikolajovich, co-rapporteur – deputy head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Ksenija Mikhailna Lapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, if you have drawn attention to this bill, you have seen that it removes the gaps that currently exist in our legislation allowing the raiders to use in their enterprise capture schemes the inadequacy of our Act on State Registration of an Enterprise Subject. What is it? If you want to change, say, the heads of management, the director, the chief accountant, if you want to change the founders, you need to come to the registrar, submit a protocol to the founding members' assembly, a fake, a lipid with multiple signatures and the registrar has no right or obligation to verify. And those. In fact, there was such a convention protocol. Was there really a signature on this document of a legitimate person? The bill is further amended. What are they? First change. It refers to the fact that if documents are submitted for registration if changes are made to the constituent documents, the printing of the legal person is also necessary. This time. Secondly, if an application is submitted to replace the enterprise certificate, it is not only necessary to apply for a replacement. Well, to issue a copy, but also to provide a certificate from the internal affairs authorities that you've actually lost, and they're looking for those documents. All enterprises now receive such reports. Why? Because if you really lost him, you're having trouble with the tax administration, the Pension Fund, the Socrates, and so on. At least that's how it works. And one last question. If you do, let's say you do. apply for the replacement of an existing evidence that has come into question, and in this case you must also submit a document for all signatures.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u141	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u142	There are comments on this bill by the Executive Office. It concerns that they believe that a statement from the internal affairs bodies should not be received. And it is not settled by this law as the police will search for documents. Well, first of all, practice. Still, it is because enterprises will make such statements – this time. Secondly, we must not regulate the activities of internal affairs bodies and determine how they will do so. I suggest you support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u143	Thank you. Kseniya Mikhailna regarding the committee's decision, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u144	Thank you, Your Honor. The committee considered the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons, and recommended that it be approved as a basis. This bill is similar to the previous bill, which unfortunately was not supported because, in fact, we have faced the fact that very often forged decisions are submitted to the State registrar, the State registrar is obliged to implement them today and unfortunately not to verify the authenticity of the decision. That's why the problem is that we have to solve it. However, we ask for support on the basis of this bill, because some of the proposed standards need to be improved. For example, a rule that says that the registration cards for the replacement of a witness must be stamped on the signature of the responsible person. But imagine the fact that the director disappears along with the seal, it's impossible to get a copy of the document because there's no seal, there's no director. In fact, the police will not deal with such a legal person, because there are no relevant documents to verify that documents have actually been lost. In other words, there is no need for any other disorder in an effort to put order in place. So we've already started working with the author on these amendments as amendments to another bill. I'm sure we'll find some formulations that will really close an existing hole that, unfortunately, allows us to falsify the documents and then falsify the records of a state registration that is unacceptable. Therefore, I would like to support and instruct the committee to finalize this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-09-m0.u145	Yes, thank you, dear colleagues. Committee proposal: accept as a basis. Are there other thoughts? You don't mind putting it to the vote? The proposal for a committee to adopt is based on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons to prevent the use of State Registration Authorities in raid schemes. Registration number 1158. Please vote. [[18:08:00]] For 366 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the committee insists today the Committee on Industrial Policy and Regulatory Policy insists that two more bills be considered. Dear colleagues, there are five minutes left. We won't make it if we do. Dear colleagues, this is how we can proceed. We have bills here. The committees considered them. Let's vote them, take them as a basis, but we trust the committees. Let them work with us to complete the schedule. Because we have 100 questions this week. Please, let's make it quick. I'm from the committee, so let's vote. But yes, if the Supreme Council supports it, so it doesn't have to be that the Supreme Council won't support it, then there will be charges on the part of the deputies that we didn't support one or the other bill. Is there no objection? I hereby announce the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Well, we can't. Tomorrow we'll look at them first. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our plenary work at 10 a.m. schedule for Wednesday. These bills, which we have not considered today, will be considered in the first order tomorrow.
