ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:39]] There were 424 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. And, at the same time, I'm asking you, dear colleagues, to keep in mind the need for registration at the registration desks, that is, written registration. Whoever didn't make it, went straight into the session room, and I'm asking you to register. And, dear colleagues, after about half an hour, I'd like to ask you to provide me with a written registration of the national MPs. And I would also like to say that yesterday, according to the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, 21 issues were discussed on the agenda, including 14 bills, one draft decree and a proposal by the President of Ukraine to six Ukrainian laws. Two laws were passed, ten bills and one draft decree were adopted as a basis. Two bills have been rejected. According to the President of Ukraine's proposals: one law has been passed in general by more than two-thirds of the votes of the national deputies from the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, one law has been passed taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine, one law has been passed with partial consideration for the proposals of the President of Ukraine, three laws have been rejected. Dear colleagues, we have agreed that today the Supreme Council of Ukraine will first consider the socio-economic situation in Ukraine and the actions of the authorities to deal with the crisis. To address this issue, the invited heads of the district councils are present; the invited and present Head of the Constitutional Court are not absent; the invited also the Head of the Constitutional Court, the Head of the Supreme Court, the Head of the Supreme Economic Court, the Head of the Supreme Administrative Court, the Head of the Court of Auditors, the Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Head of the Central Electoral Commission, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the High Council of Justice, the interim Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, well, I have already said, the heads of the district councils. Dear colleagues, you and I have set such rules of procedure. Now I'm going to re-announce the rules, and then we're going to exchange thoughts. If there's a Head of State. [[The Prime Minister of Ukraine entered the session hall]] (O p l s c i) Thank you. [[Applause]] Yes, please, dear colleagues, sit down. Dear colleagues, please sit down. The Prime Minister of Ukraine and members of the Government participate in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we agreed with you yesterday on a regulation on the socio-economic situation in Ukraine and on the actions of the authorities to deal with the crisis. A statement by the President of Ukraine, if the President of Ukraine takes part, is within 45 minutes. A question to the President, if he agrees to answer them, in 30 minutes. The Prime Minister's speech is in 45 minutes. Question to the Prime Minister: 30 minutes. Questions to the cabinet members, if we have them, honourable national deputies, in 30 minutes. The representations of MPs are up to 10 minutes away from each faction. People's Deputies will be here in 30 minutes. The two heads of the district councils are the heads of the Luhansk district council of Golenko Valerija Mikolaiovich and the Sumski district council of Šapošnik Viacheslav Ivanovich, up to five minutes. Discussing and making decisions. Once again, I would like to point out that a written registration will take place after the discussion has been concluded. After that, lists of missing national deputies will be published. [[at the registration table]] And it will be proposed to the Counting Commission that they transmit these lists to our respective information system, the Council, in order to remove cards from national MPs who are not present at the meeting. Then we'll have a vote. Let's go. Five minutes, please sign in. I ask you to put on the board the name of the national MPs who are registered. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u2	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have come to realize that we have no information yet whether the President is coming or not. And whether “the death of all the Chinese” will come, which in its latest actions shocks the entire population of Ukraine and the world. He's already figured out pathological anatomical units to transfer to municipal property. And I thank Mrs. Tetjana Kornyakev here for protesting these illegal acts. But illegal acts are also on tariffs. And last night, once again, billions of dollars are bought by foreign-made trams while we're passing laws to support our domestic business. And this is all done in the "Yushmashi". I'd like you to inform and why only these two heads of district councils will speak, why they have such honor, not some choice, as we have now as it falls. So I would like to ask you to give us such an explanation as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u3	National deputy Shenzev, faction of the Party of the Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u4	Please pass the word to Efraem Alexander Sergeevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u5	Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u6	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, respected by Vladimir Mihajlovich, would like to hear the answer to questions whether there has been any communication with the President and what the Head of State said about his absence today at the session of the Supreme Council. Is that disrespect for the MPs and through the MPs to the entire Ukrainian people? And the second question. Vladimir Mihajlovich, the presidents of the regional councils, we agreed that everyone would be invited. In the bed of the invited ones, we see only two of them, which we insult the heads of the regions and put them all the way to the balcony instead of taking the bed in which they have always been. I do not consider this to be the right decision, and we must not be shielded from those who directly contact all people in Ukraine and work daily, and we are all better aware of the problem in our State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u7	Sergey Sas, please, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u8	Thank you. Vladimir Mihajlovich, please give the floor to Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u9	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear government, distinguished prime minister, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we support the proposed algorithm for today's debate, we agreed with you and with the leaders of the MP factions on Tuesday. We fully support and suggest that we proceed immediately, for today we have enough work to do throughout the week in order of the day. At least there are 15 anti-crisis bills proposed by the government and the national deputies. We propose after considering the first question to put to the vote the continuation of the session today until the full agenda is exhausted. We have a great deal of work to do, and we owe it to the voters. By the endless demands of resignations, reelections, and so forth, we owe a considerable number of legislative acts today. So our faction isn't set up for the show, it's set to work. And please put our proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u10	Anatoly Stepanovich Gricenko, faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u11	Thank you. Anatoly Gricenko “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! On Thursday, following a meeting of the Conciliation Council, there was a question of an examination by the President of the presidency of the Ukrainian Security Service. This question is being considered by the committee, you asked yourself on Monday to expedite this consideration, and we did it, it was deleted. I insist that we vote and after considering the issue of government, and the approval of the agenda have been considered by the Head of the Bureau. We can't leave it uncertain for two more weeks and give the President the right to exercise his constitutional right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u12	Thank you. Valery Bondick faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u13	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Please pass the word to Conovaluku Valerius Ilchi.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u14	Valerius Ilych Konovaluk, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u15	Thank you. Valery Konovaluk Party of Regions. Dear Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! The question that we're going to start looking at today is the socio-economic situation in Ukraine and the actions of the authorities to deal with the crisis. I have a specific question for you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Does President Yushchenko of Ukraine have a bearing on this situation? How can we assess the actions of the President, who for four years has never once addressed Parliament with an annual message on the socio-economic situation in the state? How can we react to the constitutional guarantor who blocks anti-crisis laws, vetoes and violates the Constitution? How can we react to the numerous facts of corruption, abuses and actions of the President against the Ukrainian State? You know, give me an answer, why isn't the President's Party of Regions in the hall today? Why, apart from the Party of the Regions, no one is required to be removed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u16	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u17	Why, besides us, does no one today insist on opening an impeachment procedure? Let's understand why we become hostages today, like all citizens, when the Party of Regions demands today to work on those issues that concern people today, and those factions that prevent us from providing this issue as opposition in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u18	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have exchanged thoughts on our views and approaches regarding the first question. Suggestions and observations made by Karmazin’s colleague regarding the city of Kyiv. We invited the Kiev City Head when it was discovered that he could not be, we invited his deputy, secretary of the Kiev City Council, as decided by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On two occasions, we agreed, and I would like to remind you, Your Honor, of the rules of procedure and of the voting procedure, that we have approved with you the appropriate decision, which was voted by 398 people's deputies in Ukraine. Regarding the invitation of the President of Ukraine. After the decision of the Conciliation Council, my fellow dignitaries, I made an official letter to the President, and I realize that today is not the time to write, I had a phone call with the President of Ukraine. If the President of Ukraine makes a decision, I think he can take part in our work at any time. And normally, I want to say, and this is on the question of Valery Illich Konovaluk, that the President of Ukraine is speaking with letters to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in a row under normal conditions until March 31st every year, so there is still time. But in order for the Supreme Council to prepare, the Supreme Council needs to be informed, and this information has been brought to the national deputies of Ukraine in five days. The President has the right to address extracurricular messages to both the Supreme Council and the Ukrainian people. I'm sure the Supreme Council will support the President's will. As for the heads of the district council. I asked the camera to find out, please, what your respectable colleagues might do to move. I would just like to ask one of you not to do as we did in our own time when we considered the issue of the prestige of mining work, when we were driving all over the Supreme Council, and then we made a decision that unfortunately is not being implemented. But please, where it will be more convenient, we should not have any warnings. Regarding the offer of John Grigorovitch Kirilenko to continue his work. Come on, I have an offer, my dear fellows, let's finish the discussion of this question, it takes a lot of time, and then we'll think about how to work on it. With regard to Anatolia Stepanovich Grecenko's proposal to consider granting approval to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service. We've been talking about, honourable colleagues, and on the Conciliation Council, I just didn't bring it up to your knowledge that when we're looking at such a complex issue today, it's very obvious that such realities on this issue will not come to this problem, if you can say so, it should be considered. But solidly, if there is such an insistence, we will hold consultations and make a decision. I've answered all your questions, and the suggestions have been made, and we'll take them into account. The issue is being discussed, pending consideration of the socio-economic situation in Ukraine and the actions of the authorities to deal with the crisis. Prime Minister Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrna is invited to the presentation. [[Applause]] Please, Julia Volodymyr. May I have your attention, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u19	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I think that today's discussion of the socio-economic situation in Ukraine is absolutely timely, it is necessary, and I very much hope that this will be not the basis for political debate, but a basis for consolidation, for making important decisions, and for bringing parliament together, a government into a single team that can produce results for the country. I want to thank today both the Head of the Supreme Council and the National Deputies, who join the coalition, as well as those deputies who join the opposition and support the anti-crisis laws, for making the work of the Supreme Council and the government much more constructive and effective in the last two months, and for comparing the number and quality of decisions that have been made in the last two months with the previous year of work, these are incomparable things. So I think there's a chance that we can work and give results to society. I definitely don't want to embellish the situation in the country. It's a very difficult situation, it's not just in Ukraine, it's all over the world. And that is why today we must openly raise our problems and answer them. First of all, Ukraine, like the whole world, is seeing a recession in economic processes as of December of last year. This is a perfectly logical consequence of the collapse of the world banking system, because the economy of a country, any sector, can live and work if loans are given on time, if these loans are given not for one month, but at least for a year and more, if these loans are given not below 36 percent of the annual ones, as they sometimes do today, but are given as they are worldwide, below 3 to 4 percent of the annual ones, then the economy will live and flourish. But at a time when Ukraine's banking system today, as a result of certain, I think, not very professional steps, first of all, lives with a damaged bracelet; secondly, it lives without real money and does not channel money into the real economy; percentages are that neither small nor medium nor large business can be done. This suggests that, of course, the clot that needs to be overcome is in the banking system. Because all other sectors have powers, they have opportunities, they have all the prerequisites necessary to work properly and to produce results for society. I'd like to take a moment to look at the dynamics of gross domestic product in 2008, and you'll see that it's the end of the year that we've had a recession that we're going to have to work together to fight. [[I'm asking you to highlight this slide.]] Of course, this has affected the formation of the income part of the budget, the formation of all expenses. And this is a problem that was born of a massive world banking crisis. I also wanted you to look at after 2009, what GDP forecasts give to other countries around the world. Please, what Ukraine looks like in this background. Ukraine planned 0.4 percent increase in gross domestic product for 2009 at a time when the International Monetary Fund offered Ukraine a recession of negative 5. But the government of Ukraine disagreed with such predictions, because it is easier to accept the fall, to build a policy so that the fall is fixed by all indications. I think that Ukraine is a strong state, it has resources and reserves, and if it works properly in this difficult time, we will provide the indicator we planned for 2009. But at the same time, I want you to point out that, for example, countries like the European Union, the same International Monetary Fund is projected to have a decline in output minus 2 percent, developed countries as a whole, all of them minus 2, the United States minus 1.6 and even Japan, which is a pattern of how to build efficient economies, minus 2.6. This tells us that the whole world has entered a global recession, and Ukraine will not easily be. I think the budget we've offered to the country is the answer to these questions. As far as industrial dynamics are concerned, and we're comparing 2007 to 2008 per month. [[I'd like to show you slide number eight.]] And you'll see, essentially, all of the industrial dynamics, they started getting worse from month nine to month eight, where we actually started having problems with the banking system. But at the same time, I wouldn't want us to lose hope, because if we compare the 12th, December of the month to the previous month, for example, November, we'll see that it's three or two plus. This does not mean that we have everything good, it means that we are fighting and we can step by step overcome this crisis. As far as inflation is concerned. I'm asking you to show the 17th slide, and I'd like to draw your attention to the second half of 2008 compared to 2007. You'll see that inflation rates starting from the seventh month were compared to the last year, when another government was working, absolutely positive. For two months there was deflation. All the other months, despite the crisis, we kept inflation lower than in 2007. And only in December, when the collapse of the bracelets reached just record volumes, which means that all the imported products: oil products, drugs, because of such a steep decline, the bracelets went a long way, even in the last month, we had inflation rates at the level of last year, when there was another government, and when there was no crisis. So we're still going to keep a pretty serious hand on the pulse on all aspects of inflation, but at the same time we're going to understand that, unfortunately, in 17 years, we've got an imported economy. Even foods are imported. The drugs, together with the substance, are 100 percent imported. We can only mix them up. All almost oil products are coming in today for import. And as long as there's this money-dollar exchange rate, and it's going to be multiplying this dollar-dollar exchange rate on customs just like that, there's going to be twice as much waiting at the price, rising prices for key consumer products. Until we put the bracelet in place, and until the National Bank makes such a policy, it will certainly be very and very difficult. I would also like to see a slide today showing how the national currency has fallen in other countries. In principle, the cost of national currency throughout the world is an indicator and a sign of crisis. But what does Ukraine look like compared to other countries? If we take the euro, compared to the dollar from 1 July to 4 February 2009, this devaluation of national currencies was 18.7 percent. If we take countries like Great Britain, the national currency devaluation was 27.6, Russia was 35.5. Ukraine has been unusual in this situation, and the devaluation in Ukraine has accounted for 43.6 percent. It's in the most modest calculations. You can't let the National Bank do that. At the same time, we're planning, we're planning for next year's inflation forecast to be 9.5 percent. Such hopes give us today, including producer price indices, which have fallen significantly, and today's wholesale prices for industrial production, I'm asking you to look at the 2009 forecast. And if we look at producer price indices, we'll see that there are already all the preconditions for lower prices and consumer goods. But without putting a price on the dollar bracelet, it's impossible to achieve that. I would also like to point out that, despite the extremely difficult state of budgeting for 2009, we have already planned plus 3.4 percent of the revenue growth of Ukraine's 2009 budget. I'm asking you to show slide 33, and we're going to see that we are, despite the pessimistic and difficult predictions and circumstances themselves, we want to go up to a budget increase of 10 billion dollars compared to 2008. And I think we're going to get to that. I would also like to report that we have planned in the budget a budget deficit of 2.96 percent, which is at the same level as all other developed countries in the world. On the 84 slide you can see the 2009 budget deficit forecast in individual countries of the world and in Ukraine. I wouldn't want you to feel that now the budget of Ukraine will be formed on the account of excessive borrowing, and the government debt will increase. That won't happen. We're going to a completely civilized level of deficit. And if you see, Germany has planned 3 percent of the deficit, Ukraine is 2.96, the United States is over 3. And if we take, for example, Latvia planned 4 percent. So the budget deficit is reasonable, it will not lead to an increase in government debt substantially. In addition, I would like you to know that Ukraine's sovereign debt is so modest that it can be compared to other countries and concluded that 11 per cent of GDP is government debt and that in other countries of the world, on average, 60 to 70 per cent of GDP is government debt. We have quite serious reserves to borrow and be able to pay. By the way, I'm asking for 38 slides. This economy is strong, liberal, effective, like Japan, with 200 percent of GDP in debt. Now I'd like to give you some data on what we already have achieved and what we have in January-month results from the implementation of the State Budget and the Pension Fund. Dear colleagues, I think you've heard TV from the President, from the opposition, from many so-called experts, in quotes that the country's budget has been executed by 50 percent, that the Pension Fund has been broken, that the execution, which no longer pays the pension, is paid in the budget. I want to explicitly refute these false data and draw your attention to the coming of the State Budget for January. And I think you all realize that in the global recession of economies, the decline in the economy to implement the budget -- it just turns every month into a very hard job and a very difficult task. But at the same time, in January, we had a 101 percent budget, state budget. 101 percent means plus we got 117 million. The money's on the plan. And I want to tell you that no matter how hard it is, no matter how hard the country is to shake the crisis, we predict that in the coming months, the income base is enough to run the budget that is planned. [[Applause]] Moreover, if, at the beginning of the year, special budget funds are still difficult to implement, I would like to draw your attention to the most important income-generating indicator of the budget is coming from the State Tax Administration. So if we overstated the budget by one percent, the State Tax Budget is five percent, and it's 0.3 billion. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know what you're talking about. This means that the budget was not artificially formed, but on the basis of normal income. In addition, the State Customs Service is also a very interesting indicator. By the time the new administration of the State Customs Service had arrived, by the end of the month, the budget had been implemented by 47 percent on duty. It was just a radical failure planned, planned consciously. And only the arrival of a new leadership gave opportunity in four days — think! – raise all resources and reserves – and perform the general and special incomes of the Maintenance together by 106 percent. This means that there are reserves and resources. And unfortunately, the last six months have reopened smuggling across all borders, black flows have returned in certain directions. And I believe that the new customs administration will be able to put it in order. And I'd also like to stop separately because it's very important for the country, on the same level as the main taxes. Please show the 43rd slide. And I think that economists will understand that the budget is not in the risk system. Look at VAT: 11.2 is overstated, with planned VAT reimbursements to exporters, those scheduled to be fully executed. Income tax is plus 14 and a half percent. This means 114 percent. And the excise collection is 8 percent. These figures are also the basis for budgeting. The budget was difficult in January/month all year round, but this year the plans were higher than in the past, for January, and they were overworked. But that doesn't mean anything. [[Applause]] But this does not mean that we can relax and say that all is well, we can rest. The crisis gives the country challenges every day. But it's because the budget is done that you and I have paid full salaries to the budgeters on time today. All the grants are listed in the Districts in the State Budget. And we believe that we will still be able to do the same work to protect the country from the crisis. Although, once again, the world’s economy is not immune from some kind of stress, we are all at great risk. In addition, I would like you and I to point out that the Pension Fund, you remember how many lies there were, how many innuendo there were, how many of those conversations there were, you know, that add to Ukraine's problems that the Pension Fund isn't doing, that there's been a failure in the Pension Fund, that we're not going to pay our pensions. So what I want to tell you right now is that, in January, direct arrivals to the Pension Fund are more than 21 percent overrun by January. That's what we got in the Pension Fund out of the plan, more of a plan -- 1.4 billion dollars. And I think that pensions will continue to be paid in full, on time, and today we don't have to set up hysteria on television channels, set up hysteria in power corridors, and make such bad expectations in society. People have to believe in their country, and if high-ranking people and politicians destroy this faith, they violate the country's main national interest -- it's the strong spirit of the nation, they destroy, they destroy the faith of the nation, they destroy confidence, and then they create even worse consequences for people's lives. And that's why I'm addressing the whole country right now, all the citizens of the country. Yes, Ukraine is difficult today, but at this difficult moment, politicians are being tested: who with the country and who deliberately destroys and dispels the country for their political ambitions, destroys its stability, and destroys its normal, sure course to overcome the crisis. And I want to call all politicians to unity again and again! At the same time, I want to inform you that for the first time, and just during the crisis, you and I have set up a stability fund in the budget based on negotiations with other countries, I can say that it will be filled. This stabilising fund is worth over 21 billion dollars, and it's going to be focused exclusively on development costs. It's a waste of credit for the agricultural sector. That's almost 5 billion carbon costs. This is the full funding of the Euro-2012 preparations with all infrastructure projects. This is the first time we've laid down, and I'm going to say, we're going to do the purchase and upgrading of weapons for the military, military and special technology at 2 billion 767 million. Such money has never, even in the boom of the economy, been made available to our defense machinery companies. I hope and believe, and I'm working for the stability fund to be filled by March of the month, and from March of the month we started spending it. Today, the entire budget deficit is not about eating, but about spending exclusively on development. And I'd also like to draw your attention to the fact that we're sending 800 million dollars to the stability fund for mortgage lending and increasing the statutory capital of Ukreximbank and Savings. And today, every Friday, we hold a special meeting with the builders and form sufficient financial resources for mortgage lending of unfinished construction. In addition, we've got half a billion dollars planned for the modernisation of housing and utilities, and we're going to spend it on energy saving, setting up equipment that saves energy, and also cutting tariffs that will be used to pay for heat, hot water and so on. The implementation of investment projects in the socio-economic development of regions – one and a half billion – is a stabilising fund. Financing investment projects in airlines, defence and industrial complexes and other industries for nearly nine hundred million. In addition, many special programs. And I want to tell you that today, in every field, in every direction, the projects of the country's major infrastructure development are clearly approved. They're almost finished today with the involvement of finance, including the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the World Bank, our national banks, and we will be able to finance with you all the infrastructure projects that are set up in the fuel and energy complex, in road construction, absolutely everything about the Euro, everything about energy conservation, housing and utilities, I think Ukraine will be able to get out of the crisis more powerful. I'd like to draw your attention to a few indicators. Despite the very and very difficult economic situation of Ukraine, the average average minimum wage in 2009 is projected to be at plus eighteen percent, compared to 2008, the real wage. In the budget area plus 8.8. And I'd also like to tell you that we're going to pay attention and we're going to monitor that by 12.6 percent over the year, not on January 1st, but over the course of the year, we're going to increase the salaries of teachers at school, and we're going to do that, every school is going to be taken into account. Doctors, for example, for a surgeon, we plan a 12 - percent increase over the course of the year, even though the crisis is disrupting Ukraine. In addition, we added 174 million dollars to the development of the culture system by 2008 again, despite the difficult budget situation. Expenditure on local budgets for culture and art plus 485 million dollars. And I could take away all the social costs that were made in January months and that planned in January, 7 billion were planned for all social and protective expenses, exactly 7 billion were made. And we still have enough power. I'm not going to stop now that we're for all categories of defenseless people, at least a little bit, but we've increased the cost. In order to provide benefits and housing subsidies to the population, an increase of 38 percent has been made. And that's all with a very radically poor budget, which is necessarily accompanied by a financial and economic crisis. I don't want to waste any time now that we're increasing our education by 48.5 over the course of two years, based on the 2008-2009 fundamental scientific research, by 30.6 percent. [[8th and 9th]] I want you to know that the government is holding on to the pulse of all the key expenditures of the country. I would also like to point out that, as of today, the government of Ukraine has set only four fundamental priorities that we believe can raise our country to a very different level of development today. The first direction that we have today is an agrarian complex that can give Ukraine extremely high monetary revenues and the only sector in 2008, which has given a unique, unprecedented increase of over 18 percent over the years, is the agricultural sector. Today we have to invest in it, and we will invest in it. And now we're building a model of preparation for spring work and we believe that together the government, the National Bank, agriculture, the local government. We can lay the foundation for next year’s crop, if the weather does not fail, to be no less substantial and impressive than the harvest last year. And last year, you know, twice as much crop and record as ever in Ukraine. But at the same time, we can't help but notice that the agrarian complex has also been affected by the financial and economic crisis. Prices in world markets for agrarian production have fallen radically, and so for a time our agrarians have had no market and the normal prices have been stopped. And today external markets are still asleep and are not showing such a positive dynamic increase in the price of grain. But there's a little bit of a shift -- a price shift and a shift in the amount of implementation. I hope that in February they will be even more important. Think about it. 1.6 million tons of grain was exported in January. That was never the case in January. I think the agrarians are sitting in the hall and they know that. But prices remain low and agrarians are difficult. That's why we're leaving the program to pay off the loans. We leave a reasonable cost program for diesel fuel, which we do together with a crematory oil refinery and NAC “Naftogaz” Crushing, and we will monitor the extension of credits for agrarians every day. But it's already the jurisdiction of the National Bank. The second strategic direction that we've set for ourselves today is construction. Because if we build today, there is one job in construction that produces 6 to 7 in other fields. And so these development resources that we have will be directed to the construction sector. The third priority is to save energy, rebuild and modernise all power supply systems in Ukraine. I'll tell you what we've calculated and made a separate program only after replacing natural gas consumption for boilers with other raw materials: woodworking waste, including wood chips, which we now have in the woods in full volume, forests are not cleaned up for many years, plus agrarian waste. We figured out, we can put 6 billion cubic meters of consumption of Russian gas on these fairly affordable and cheap resources that are in Ukraine. We've also calculated that we have an overall energy balance from other sources other than gas and oil, we have only 0.8 percent of other primary sources, and in all other countries, we have 24 to 30 percent. So why haven't we taken any steps in this direction in 17 years? Do you think it takes us a long time to do this or a lot of money? Oh, no. Today in the region of Ivano-Frankiv, an example is shown of how to re-arrange a gas boiler into a fire on the briquettes made with straw and a wood chip. So I want to tell you, it's been three months for the boiler room to be refitted, only three months! And a few million dollars, that's money relative to the cost of gas is incomparable. Heat tariffs are three times smaller if he builds a job. In 17 years, zero has been made. We're now proposing a program that completely inventoryed these boilers, which completely counted the costs. And we're able to shut them down and plan to replace this gas with our domestic renewable energy resources in 2-3 years. The fourth direction we're now focusing on is the key engineering enterprises. For example, aviation construction. We can in one workplace and in one bracelet, produce assembly products at two Kharkivsky and Kyiv aircraft factories, create 12 jobs in other machinery factories. This means that we today can make things like aviation, shipbuilding the fourth priority, and raise the country pretty much in these times, focusing and concentrating on all financial resources and organizational opportunities. I want to complete my presentation with the following words, without delaying the MP’s corps with my speeches and leaving more time for answers. Ukraine and every Ukrainian citizen have never been as difficult as they are today. It is difficult, since the stronger countries of the world today are staggering and seeking support and special technologies to come out of the crisis. But at the same time, as not the most powerful country in the world, Ukraine will not lose its chance. And we can get stronger out of the crisis, but we need one very important thing to do. It's not like a cat and a dog has to live with you and me in politics. You know that I have appealed to all the political forces without exception that we must be one national national team at this difficult time. Today it is a robbery and crime to do, it is a robbery and crime to do their ratings today, rotting ratings in the country's misery, to make their ratings critical and sown panics and hysterias, to destroy their political competitors working in the government, along with the country. [[Congrats]] Because if today we don't let the government work, we don't let the governors go to meetings, we don't have to do the government's orders, we don't have to destroy all the programs that the government and local authorities are doing together, it's clear that it's going to be very difficult to get the country on its feet, it's very difficult today to fight inflation and take steps to raise the economy if the politicians, including those in this room, deliberately, are destroying the bracelet, going out into the speculative markets and buying that bracelet today, are destroying the last remnants of the stability of the bracelet. It's a crime to make money in the cold, and it's stealing. And if we have to call it a name, we'll call it a name. And I think that if we have enough wisdom, common sense, and above all, love for our country, then all strife must be stopped and, as in the famous tale of “Mowgli”, the water truce during the drought. Nobody eats anyone, dear friends! [[Applause]] And they're all trying to water each other alive, so that the country doesn't lose the chance it has right now. And the elections are going to put everything in place. So you don't have to speculate and take the last chance in the country. You know, I'm looking at a political situation today, and I'm surprised at how powerfully they are today in the social situation, how people today are pushing for strikes and protests. But I am glad that people are much wiser politicians. The “Destals!” action is ten machines, including action organizers, who are pushing this signal as hard as they can, and some channels that serve such shares show a big plan of ten machines and give the idea that this whole country is up. Dear friends, I am convinced once and for all, as well as after the orange revolution, that unfortunately the people are much wiser politicians, much more honest politicians, and much more loving their country. Politicians need to be drawn to their own people, and then the country will live happily ever after. I believe that, to be honest.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u20	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, please, let's all calm down. Now please sign up for the question to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. For 30 minutes we agreed to ask you questions and answers. The Prime Minister has saved time, it will be 35 minutes. Please log in. National MP, Pavlovsky, faction of the “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u21	Good afternoon, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u22	One minute, cancel. One minute, wait, what's the reason? Huh? Please cancel, take off. One minute, there'll be no charges. [[B in m in s a l in]] I want to do it again. Your Honor, I ask you again. Dear colleagues, the recording was announced, the recording took place. What are the claims? [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute, calm down. I'll put it to the vote now. Who's in favour of voting on the record for the prime minister of Ukraine? Please identify yourself, please. [[10:56:44]] For 185 Calm down. Did I do something? [[B in m in s a l in]] Sit down, distinguished national MPs! Sit down! I want to say again, sit down, please. Dear National Deputies! I'm asking you, come on now, I'm asking you all -- and the faction of the Party of Regions, and the Butt Party, because it's preparing for a breakdown in this issue, to vote for us to sign up now. I beg of you, fellows of honor! I ask everyone to vote! I want to say again, one part requires, the other part doesn't. Please. And keep an eye on me, please. Keep an eye on me. I ask the head of the regulatory committee to stand by my side and watch the recording take place! Please. But I'm asking you to vote now, because now we're going to rerecord every single time, do you understand? I want to say, Your Honor Alexander Sergiyovich, I did as I was told: Pavlovski, Alexandrovska, continue with the score. That's what I'm talking about. Let's rewritable! Please! Let's rewrite it. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to tell you all that we are. Please! Please. Yesterday, we had to make regulations, Your Honor. We agreed, 398 people voted, and now you're yelling about something else. I want to say it again. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, I ask you all to sit down and vote for all 450 deputies to re-record, and sign up, and put control and control on me, please. Please. Ladies and gentlemen, if there are plans to break this question, please tell me immediately -- we will close the debate on this matter. I'm asking everyone right now, please. I will put to the vote to maintain regular purity, vote in favour of rewriting the question to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Everyone, please vote, please! Vote, please! [[11:00:42]] For 362 Decision taken. I ask the head of the Counting Commission: please place each faction of one person next to the system, and let them stand there. Next to me, I ask the head of the regulatory committee not to blame me for anything, put a chair, and let him sit here, and we'll work together. Please sign up for a question to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. The motives are before the decision is made and before the question is considered. Please record. When it's finished, please state the name of the national MPs on the sign-up table. Are there any more claims to me? Please, Treguchev, the faction of the Timoshenko Yulia.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u23	Please pass the word to Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u24	Ivan Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, I ask everyone to calm down in the hall. It's pretty clear that the Sabbath won't work, the show won't work again. Let's at least stand up to our faces, listen to the question normally, as you've all convinced us that "let's hear it properly." Come on. Don't set up a circus and a show here, colleagues. If, in fact, the question. Julia Volodymyrna, say clearly, give an answer to the whole community. We've been fighting here for months and a half for the National Bank to finally work with transparency and honesty. God is with them, tens of billions that have been stolen and scattered, but today the National Bank according to our law, which has been enacted to work with the government at least or not? Are they going to the economy or are they going to currency speculation again? In the end, legends walk again, the dollar rate jumps again, but when does it end in the end?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u26	First of all, I would like to make it quite clear that all the financial, economic, financial accounts of the country say that the normal, adequate course for Ukraine today is six or six fifty. But exactly over seven he just can't be, it's not natural, it's artificial things that aren't explained by any completely economic or financial complexity. On the other hand, this rate of bracelets has the following effects today: first, inflation for food products, second, high price for fuel-oil materials, because they're all imported. Each increase in the price of drugs is linked to the dollar dollar money, because all medicines are imported. All cars, machinery, equipment, everything that goes across the border: clothes, shoes -- all of this today is not about the price in the currency, it's not about five zero-five, it's not about six-six-fifty, it's about eight-and-a-half, and they're still taking the stock to a bigger class. And that means that all the travel in the country today for all the products that people eat is about the dollar bracelet. There is no more reason because all the wholesale prices of producers in the state are declining today, and so there can be no such strange things. The total price goes to the split. And today all goods produced in the internal market are also being brought to high prices by foreign goods. And so until we put the bracelet in its natural size, we're going to have these problems. Unfortunately, the government of Ukraine does not influence the exchange rate of the dollar bracelet. On the contrary, the Constitution prohibits the government from interfering with these things. And as long as we don't bring it in at the level of leadership of the National Bank and at the level of that,
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u27	Julius Volodymyrly, time for answers is over.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u28	That the President must introduce a new candidate to Parliament for the Head of the National Bank, until then we will face this problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Let's make sure there's no charges, no answers, no questions and no answers within the Rules. Please! Mikola Janović Azarov, please, faction of the Party of the Regions. Microphone, please. Dear colleagues! Please! Dear colleagues! Five minutes, depending on the computer, we just got a call. Well, let's wait, now they're technical. Julia Volodymyrna! We can sit down for now. I beg of you, fellows of honor! We just got a call from the First Vice Speaker with five minutes' information, depending on the computer. We can't handle our tension here!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u30	How about after you raise your hand?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u31	I want to say again: From every person in the faction, please stand and control! ((Mw w w w w a l i) The thing is, they don't work from MPs and we have to wait. You can sit down. It's working! Please, Mikola Janovich Azarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u32	Julia Vladimirovna! I'm just like you, for instilling confidence in our people and optimism. However, there is always a need to tell the truth. We'll take January of the month, budget implementation. You know very well how it was done, I'll just remind and ask. In implementing the budget, why is the government budget less than last year? For example, in the tax service, the fact of January 2008 is five billion forty-three million. A flat at 01:01 P.M. - Four billion four hundred eight. In customs: four billion five hundred sixty-six, fact three billion and so on. The General Fund of the State Budget, the General Fund, has not been implemented for one and a half billion.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u33	Let me finish the question. Respectable colleagues, tolerant. And the answers a little bit. I only ask that you stay within the time limit. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u34	And where did the extra billions come from that made the so-called budget stalemate come from? It's known to be one billion plus from the National Bank, 1.86 billion -- last year's gas spill. But I have the most important question, Julia Vladimirovna, is what happened there. If everything is so well, why is 80 per cent of the budget dissipation carried out as of 2 February.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u35	Thank you. Please answer the question. Let's do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, I honestly don't think this is a question at all. I affirm that the Prime Minister of Ukraine and Treasury confirmed these figures publicly: the government budget's income was 100 per cent. There are different income articles that have been done more; others are less, but all the articles that I've called have been done. Tax revenues have been made. Customs are jointly a special and general fund. I want to tell you, you don't have to do things now that are called provocations, Mikola Janovich. Budget executed, salaries paid to budgeters and pensions paid. I know you'd like something else. I know you're asleep and you can see that there's an unfinished budget, an unsavory pension fund, so that you can get people out of the street, as they say, you can't wait, as long as it's predicted.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u37	Taran Viktor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u38	Victor Terrence. Dear Julia Volodymyrically, in his own time, the President gave you commands of this content: the gas accumulated in the underground vault to give to Gazprom, or so on, for debts. If you did, Julia Volodymyrna, Ukraine remained unarmed against Russia's gas blackmail. I will not go into pathetic but objectively. Just because you didn't listen to the President back then, you basically saved our independence. Objectively, it is. But speculation on the gas theme continues and continues, particularly with the same gas spill “Interi” and not only. In order to finally put the dots above the “and” please inform the Ukrainian people once again what measures have been taken by the government to resolve the conflict in the gas sphere that occurred earlier this year between the NAC “Naftogaz Ukraine” and the VAT “Gazprom”? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, I think we've all been watching the gas battalions. Item number one. All the problems in Ukraine's gas sector, starting in 2004, are Rosukreenergo, which has been a corrupt, shadowy, completely criminal agent in the gas market and which has unfortunately been supported under the roof of the higher leadership of the state, including the higher leadership of the opposition. This is a fact. And that's why we were able to make a good leap this year and get rid of all of this. I can only sum it up. First. Ukraine no longer deals with any corrupt intermediaries, all contracts are direct, no corruption, no policy funding at the expense of high tariffs for Ukrainian consumers. The other one. You and I have come out with a great deal of dignity because we got the 2009 price for Ukraine lower than for all the countries in the world except Belarus, only in Belarus, the price lower. I ask if you can show a slide like in all countries the average price per year. We have a 228,8 in Moldova, 280, although Moldova has surrendered its gas transport system to 50 percent of Russia. We have, if we compare it to our neighbor Poland, they say it's a bad formula. You know, they say they can't say that the price of gas is bad -- 228, because there is no lower price in the world. So they say the formula is bad. So I'm asking you to notice right now that in our formula, we've calculated without discounts the gas and we've compared Poland's formula as the calculated gas. So if our formula and the Polish formula, we have 26.2 percent less gas for Ukraine than for Poland, that's the quality of the formula. [[Seventh slide, please show me]] This means that our formula is relative to the Polish formula of the formulae without. [[Slide 7]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u40	Julius Volodymyrically, more concisely, please, because the rules provide for limitations. Complete the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u41	I'll finish. So I, my dear friends, want to say that this is the quality of the formula if we have 26 percent below. In addition, we have 74 percent lower price for gas than for Poland. Full repository of Ukrainian gas belonging to NAK Naftogazu and fully healed balance of NAK Naftogazu. The price for gas has not changed. The price for the heat utility has not changed, for the economy in the currency, if you count it, by 5 to 7 percent. Period. That's how we got out of the gas crisis.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u42	Alla Alexandrovska is asked instead of the national deputy Baburin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u43	The Alexandrian Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Julia Vladimirovna, a crisis in which Ukraine has fallen and which, as you promised last year, should not have reached us, has hurt ordinary citizens, is losing their jobs, they lose their wages, they are being fired today, and they are suffering. Very simple questions to you as Head of Government. Why don't you put in a differentiated income tax so the rich really pay more? Why don't you enter, cancel the VAT on cheap bread? Why don't you make bread available to the poorest? And why don't you end up supporting your government, your government, your government, your government's drug producer? Indeed, you said today that all the drugs are imported. And we have our own manufacturers who can make very cheap and very effective drugs. And the last. There is a need for the consolidation of society under such conditions. Why do you tolerate in your Government the Minister of Culture, the Minister of Education, who plant xenophobia and who fuel the international divide in Ukraine? Answer these questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u44	I fully agree that today we need to protect the poorest people themselves, who today need to protect the state, the budget and so on. I completely accept your suggestions. We're going to study the issue of removing VAT on the cheap bread varieties themselves. I think this is a rational question, and I think we need to take it into account. I think we'll see how we can approach the differential. the heavy weight of the tax on increased income. I think it would be useful now, too, if we had problems filling the budget in connection with such an economic situation. But at the same time, I would like to go to all the owners of companies that have privatized them in 17 years and are sitting in the Supreme Council Hall. I'm asking you very much, today the government is going to meet chemical enterprises, metallurgical enterprises, today the government is supporting the agricultural sector, and I'm asking you to do the memorandum that we signed: not cut people's wages, not release people, not send them away on vacation. Because private owners today, unfortunately, are protecting their profits, their money, which is in offshore areas, not protecting people. And I hope that the Attorney General's Office and the Attorney General, who has been assigned practically from the Party of Regions team, is going to protect people today and not allow the owners of businesses to just throw people out on the street. And from the state-owned enterprises, we're not going to free people. Today we have paid full wages and we will try to pay this salary day after day, as we are told. As far as government rotation is concerned. I reiterate that if the issue of government responsibility is raised today, in fact, the issue of government resignation, and this proposal will not be supported in the hall, then the next sessional week will be followed by a rotation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u45	Let me finish this, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u46	The government will rotate. And we're going to try to get the government to do, first of all, the government of thinkers when they're all working. Let's try to make sure that all the political forces that want to propose the strongest ministers and who want to join the coalition, we take these proposals into account. The government must be strong in such a crisis. But, at the same time, today’s government and today’s ministers are making it impossible even to protect the country during this difficult time of crisis.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u47	Thank you. People's deputy Rybek, faction of the Timoshenko Yulia Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u48	Dear Julia Volodymyrna, for thousands and thousands of people who want to improve their education, a training campaign has begun for the graduates of the school. The system of independent evaluation of achievements is widely accepted by parents and children. In your opinion, how does the government assess the results of the introduction of this system in terms of the objectivity of assessing and stopping bribe schemes in this area, and what has been done to improve this system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u49	Well, I'm going to start with a large parental committee working with the government of those kids who are studying in schools today and who are preparing to go to higher education. And I can say that a very large number of parents represented on this committee have insisted on introducing such independent external testing. Because we would like our children to shape their knowledge for years while they're at school, and they knew that if they were in any European country, they would need to do more than bribe, but they would need to demonstrate their knowledge on independent tests. There have been many criticisms of this program. But at the same time, the first year of testing went by and there was no stress, there were no serious breakthroughs, and that was a positive result. Now, a bill that completely organizes the external testing system is the only model that doesn't have to pass both exams and exams and exams, and entrance exams and tests. Just one test. Instead of graduations and induction exams. And, of course, the objectivity and strength of those tests for school graduates. I think this year, both parents and students will be much more at peace with the test system, because they tested it, and I think most of them like it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u50	Hanna Herman, please, instead.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u51	Dear Julia Volodymyrically, you speak very convincingly. A little loud, yes, but convincing. But it's too bad you're always convincingly lying, Julia Volodymyrically. Because I remember it like October. [[B in m in s a l in]] I remember how you convinced the entire Ukrainian people in October, and I quote you that “I will close the door and the crisis will never touch Ukraine.” That's what you said, Julius Volodymyr. Please tell me, was it mere female recklessness, or was it the Prime Minister’s strategic mistake?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u52	You know, Mrs. Herman, what's the problem. The problem is at a very low level of culture in a part of the MP's corps. But only parts, thank God. [[B in m in s a l in]] When a national MP can speak harsh words, demeaning, which, by the way, are not worthy of the title “woman”. I would like to advise you to remain a woman forever. [[Applause]] I'm asking the next question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, I am addressing all the participants in today's session. Let's be mutually valid. Please, everyone. Please, dear fellows, come on. Igor Sharov, "Block of Lithuania" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u54	Dear Mr. Head! Questions from faction to government are formulated by the Ukrainian national deputy Catherine Vaschuk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u55	Katerina Vaschuk, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u56	Dear Julia Volodymyrno, I have such a question. Is it the initiative and self-reliance of certain institutions, or is it the government's authority, because signals are disturbing from villages that don't put farmers on the market who have dowry areas, even if it's only 25 hundred? You can’t have a family on it, but they’re not on the stock market. The second question. It is necessary to simplify, request farmers, land rental mechanisms through long-term auctions by district administrations, or there are no auctioneers, for this land is leased by one owner. [[They're considered state-owned.]] And the third. Mediators showed up, call the croakers, call the gas.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u57	Let me finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u58	which require an additional amount of 700 dollars per thousand square metres, such as for information services, require an additional contract. The leaders of the Cherkashchina companies called today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u59	Katerina Timofievna, thank you for bringing us to the Supreme Council Hall and to the village government. I think it's totally not true that peasants today, if they don't have a job, don't put in a job fund. I'm going to check all this stuff out, it can't be like that. And if there's even any instructions on the subject, it's going to be canceled. That's not going to be possible at all. [[Applause]] Because the employment fund is open to all people who don't have a job today. As for the other questions that you said, we'll take the transcript, check every word you said, and put order there. As far as the gas limits are concerned. There's no gas deficit today, we're going to find out who's doing such weird mediation services, and I think NAK and Naftogaz are going to put order there and we're going to protest this situation. Thank you very much for your signals.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u60	Thank you. Arjewitin, faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u61	Dear Julia Volodymyrna, I'm here. The parliamentary group “For Ukraine! ” Dear Julia Volodymyrovna, you have appealed to the banking system many times today, and among other things, the Association of Ukrainian Banks, which includes 120 banks, sent the Cabinet of Ministers a message, and the Cabinet of Ministers did not gather bankers, listen to the problems that are associated with the crisis in various sectors of the economy, nor even sent any answer to the Association. And my question is, Julia Volodymyrna. By law to the State Budget, we predicted that now the refinancing of commercial banks and the rate of refinancing of commercial banks should be in line with the Cabinet of Ministers. My question is, is the Cabinet of Ministers ready to take the initiative to enable the National Bank, for its part, to approve the positions under which loans are issued by the Cabinet of Ministers, multibillion dollars, guarantees and, of course, monitoring these loans.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u62	Well, first of all, I want to say that we are also members of the general team "For Ukraine!", so I think we are the same in all matters. [[Applause]] But the second is about the banking system. I want to inform you that we have gathered more than a dozen bankers and conducted serious dialogues with them. On the basis of this cooperation with the country's bankers, a bill has been drafted to deal with the crisis in the banking system that is now in the Supreme Council. It was submitted to the Supreme Council before the holidays, and we would very much ask that this bill be considered in the first place and that it be accepted because there is a joint work of the banking system, the National Bank and the government. In addition, we're constantly in consultation with banks, we've created a government decree on the recapitalisation of the banking system. These are the banks that need an increase in statutory capital at the expense of the government's share. And if it's hard for banks, they can go to the government. We can take a separate decision, increase the capital of the bank and, of course, get a share of the state in exchange for that. And so this money is definitely going to be the government asking questions -- to only send it to the real economy. We have 44 billion dollars to raise private banks' capital at their own request. That is why we are open to such cooperation. In addition, under the Budget Act, which has been adopted, a decision on refinancing is made today with the participation of a government representative. Such a government representative is the First Deputy Prime Minister, and he and the National Bank make certain conclusions about the refinancing, and certainly the refinancing must not go to the speculative currency market, as it was last year, and the bracelet suffered from it, a.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u63	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u64	and partly to cover financial deficits and financial gaps to increase bank liquidity and partly to support the real economy. That's what we're working on, and these work sessions are going through.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u65	Sergey Ribuk, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u66	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister, my question was that, from 37 minutes of your information, 33 minutes went into a statement of the facts being done in Europe and in our country, you called for consolidation, thank you, and four minutes for what to do. What am I asking? But it would be quite enough for me what you call the first priority is agriculture, if it wasn't for the last page of the 152 pages of the village, 8 pages, and a statement of the facts. Moreover, the priority did not come yesterday but perhaps not today. Today’s budget for the village is doubling twice as much. For animals, we know what the problem is -- 7.2 times the problem, 5 times the loan. What's your strategy? Are you satisfied with farming strategies, agrarian policies? Should I Change? Chi should.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u67	Let's get this over with. Do you have everyone?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u68	Thank you. It's literally one sentence. Strategically, how does the Prime Minister please your government's current agrarian policy? Is there something that needs to be changed? Should we unite and process a new strategy and strategy 17 years later? Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u69	Dear friends! I just want to answer that question, two numbers that will be understood by everyone. Your government, Mr. Ribuk, ended the agrarian year 2007 with a negative 2.7 percent drop. Our bad government ended a year in a global crisis in agriculture, I mean, plus 18.5. If anyone needs more comments, I can give them more. And I'd also like to point out that your very good government has collected 28 million or 29 grains, and we've collected 53.3 million tons. So compare it too, it's going to be good. I also want you to remember that your very good government didn't make it through the economic boom to create an agrarian fund that the villagers had dreamed of for ten years. And our bad government during the crisis created an agrarian fund of 2.5 billion dollars and bought grain in the village. And what I'm saying is that our very bad government, 40 percent in 2008, in crisis, gave the village more money than you did in good 2007. Now draw your own conclusions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u70	National Deputy Soloshenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u71	Dear Julia Vladimirovna! When it was drawing a beautiful January, I think most Ukrainians never understood what country it was. And I'd like a word with you, Comrade Leochkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u72	Dear Julia Volodymyrna! I'm very sorry that you're reporting on your own in this room today and that there is no President of Ukraine in this room because the opposition demanded a report from all the authorities. The other one. I would like to remind you that the majority, which is the foundation of your government, is only 217 people's deputies, which means it's not a majority, and as a result your government is not legitimate. [[in quotes]] Now for the question. The situation in the financial and budgetary spheres is absolutely insufferable to criticism. That's the question. How do you estimate the current rates for Ukrainian credit default swaps and the corresponding outlook for their categorization? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u73	Well, first of all, Mr. Lewochkin, I would like to remind you if you ask about the President that you, Mr. Lewochkin, Boyko and Firtash, are the President's command, so bring him to Parliament! [[Applause]] I think that the "Rosukre Energo" function in recent years is enough to lure him here in some way. [[Applause]] And I'm very curious that you're asking me a question about the President. I have to tell you what he'll do, because you have him every day, and I can't talk to him for three months. [[Applause]] That's the first one. The other one. As far as coalition and government are concerned. You know, yes, we had a very difficult coalition. Yes, we had a very difficult time making up a government. Yes, we had great problems with one part of the coalition. But, Your Honor, Mr. Ljovczyn! We have a coalition today, there is a government, and there is a government job! What, then, is your party unable to create a coalition, a government and give the country a result? Vote, create, and take power! Nobody's in the way! [[Applause]] And we'll talk about the swaps in the towers, and I'll tell you everything, and I'll explain it on my fingers.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u74	Dear colleagues! There's a replica of Hanna Herman and you! When the answers are completed, there will be a right to reply. Well, let's get this over with, or we'll get to the bottom of it. Anatoly Gricenko faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u75	Dear Julia Volodymyrna! I have a question, not political, but meaningful, and I would like to hear a meaningful answer. Our committee, to see if there was any reason to speak to those who called the 19th of January agreement a national treachery, whether there was a reason to speak of victory, officially sent two requests to obtain copies of signed contracts and contracts. On these two questions, there were two of your strict orders to Mr. Dubin to hand over for two days and then immediately. But after that, no papers have been submitted and there is a copy of your order, addressed to Mr. Dubina, to return them without consideration. It is clear to the bureaucrat that the Prime Minister has thus effectively forbidden the transfer of documents to the committee. I insist that these documents enter the committee and I want to hear it under the transcript when we get them.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u76	If you would like to list the documents again, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u77	Copies of the January 19 contracts and contracts, I suggested that you send them through the First Division. We understand it's a confidential question for us.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u78	Let me finish the questions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u79	For our deputies to be able to make clear professionally, without any politicization, and to conclude whether there is a reason to talk about betrayal or a negotiation, so that we can know the economic and, in particular, energy security of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u80	First of all, I want to remind you about this, by the way, and the Russian Federation has publicly stated that all the contracts they sign with all the countries for gas supply are general practice, they require confidentiality, non-disclosure, non-delivery and so on. So I want to emphasize once again that we're meeting this requirement of a contract, but if you have access to classified documents, we're ready in a special regime, you know, for that there's a room, for that, government documents, we can invite you and you can work with these documents without any doubt. We have nothing to hide there, contracts are successful for Ukraine. And because they were so loud and so massively discredited in society, it was only because they wanted to destroy them, because these contracts without the shadow middleman “Rosukreenergo” and they were discredited in order to get the “Roskreenergo” back to market. We're not going to give this company any more money in the gas market. And so, I'm very sorry that the state's highest officials made such a show out of signing gas contracts, and they better remember that they signed a 1.6-year-old stable transit rate in 2006 and banned it, and that Rossukrenerego in the face of Mr. Boyke, who sits in a 25-year-old party of the Region, leased gas storages to Rossukrenerego, Ukrainians at 16 times below the market price and 25 years of transit signed 1.6. And that's all been happening since the Orange Revolution. And I will continue to destroy these criminal arrangements, including formal ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u81	Thank you, Prime Minister, and, Your Honor, time is up. So thank you, please, for sitting down. Well, now, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u82	Oh, the replica!?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u83	Huh?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u84	Replica!?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u85	They don't answer the lines.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u86	Well, I'll answer that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u87	Then you're out of place, if anything, Julia Volodymyrically, to stand. Yes, please. Dear colleagues, please. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I am! Ladies and gentlemen, we have three national MPs demanding the right to a replica, and they have the right to rule plus. Dear colleagues, please! If, please, you, we'd like to discuss whether the excitement can be carried out. Please allow me to hold a meeting. And the observation in the order of conduct is with the People's Deputy, who came to me, he has a right too. What's the I'm asking you, Your Honor, calm down. Sergey Headate, please. Well, I said, well, there's a lead, so the first deputy to make a lead comment has the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u88	Dear Mr. Head, I have a point of order, it concerns you! Dear Mr. Head, you're being distracted as you were when the Prime Minister gave the answers. So when the Prime Minister allows himself to go to the style of the day-to-day market, I will not speak to anyone, in relation to the head of state, in relation to the head of state, demeaning Ukraine in the person of the head of state, your duty as a speaker to stop the prime minister's market style, because a politician can afford anything but the prime minister. [[th m in s a l i]] So you have to stop and warn her. And no, if she doesn't know how to speak in parliament, insulting the state of Ukraine, she must be you somehow.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u89	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I've been asking questions and times that we've been asking, and here's our discussion, the answers so that we can be mutually restrained. I called you, you heard that. Now right on the line. I would ask you not to name names, because the Prime Minister will also have the right to answer. I see everyone. Hanna Herman, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u90	I have no questions to the Prime Minister, because Julia Volodymyrna does not know how to answer my questions. But my time, I would like to use it to ask you, dear friends, to honor the memory of Paul the Great, the farewell that has just begun.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u91	Dear People's Deputies and Honorable Hanna Mikolayevna Herman, we did this yesterday. And I ask you, dear fellows, to honor your memory once more, but not to do what you do now! Please sit down. And I would ask, honourable national deputies, to stop pretending to be human over the light of her memory! [[Applause]] Sergey Ljowczyn, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u92	Dear Julia Volodymyrically! First. I would like to remind you that the President is your political partner who made you a rating politician and Prime Minister. The other one. Your government doesn't work like you say. It's actually ruining the country's economy. And for help, Julia Volodymyrically, if you don't know. Credit default swaps are currently at 32%. This is the highest stake in the world. And that means that the country is going straight to the default. Again, this is due to the failed economic policy of your government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u93	Yuri Boyko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u94	Thank you. You know, the Americans have a very nice saying: if you're so smart, show me your million. If things are so good in our country, why do we have people coming out of the street? Why do we have $2 million in unemployment? Why are people outraged by this policy? Yesterday our industry received new gas prices as a result of our government's “bright” victory. [[in quotes]] Thus, everyone knows that the industry received the price of gas for 600 dollars more than it did last year. And that means increasing all kinds of goods in our country. Who took those 600 bracelets from your government in addition to our industry?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u95	Mikola Janović Azarov. Dear colleagues, I'm simply asking you, and I beg you, we'll have more opposition when we get to the decision-making process. Let's look at this in a civilized way.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u96	Julia Vladimirovna, your answer today reminded me of your answers in July. Remember those answers. It's not my profession, it's my profession, it's facts. The facts suggest that: the government budget's income for all subscriptions is less than 2 billion compared to that of January last year. And that's a fact. Funding of budgetary institutions, salaries account for 80 per cent of the dissipation, and drug consumption is 34 per cent. And that's a fact. And the answers are, unfortunately, not yours, and the answers are the sad ones. Therefore, there should be no optimism to fill in our statements, but real concrete proposals and work.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u97	Honorable national MPs, the names of the deputies who were called, were given the right to express their position. We now have the next position – this question to the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine – in up to 30 minutes if they are national MPs. Let's do it this way. If there's a question for a member of the government, then we'll probably have the opportunity to invite you here and ask a question. Would it be better if we signed up for these questions? Let us then enroll in questions to the members of the government, and then the speaker will speak to whom he specifically addresses his questions. No objections? I'm announcing a question to the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. There's a recording going on. Please. Yes, please, the recording is complete. Please have the name of the national MPs on the sign-up table. National Deputy Harlim, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please, to whom does the question come?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u98	Does the microphone work?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u99	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u100	I ask you to give the word to Akimimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u101	Irina Akimov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Can I ask you a question?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u102	I have a question for the Minister of Economy. Mr. Danilishin, do you think that the results of the Government's work could be considered successful, which increased inflation by 2.5 times? To date, inflation in Ukraine is 11 times higher than in European countries. In Iceland, where the situation is similar to that of Ukraine, the Government resigned. Do you think it's time for the Ukrainian Government to resign too? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, if you don't mind, the microphone is in the government's bed, I think you can answer to the minister, or here, please. We spend more time walking in government. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u104	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Republic of Ukraine, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! In terms of inflation or consumer price index, which is now being asked here. I'd like to say that in fact, our government, in 2007, got one of the biggest inflations or consumer force indexes. In particular, this consumer price index began to unfold just in the second half of 2007. And we see that just in 3-4 decades, especially in terms of basic inflation, we've also seen indicators that were the largest in the period 2000-2007. So it was the fourth quarter of 2007 that formed the largest inflationary overhang, which could be said to have been the burden faced by the government of Julius Volodymyrna Timoshenko at the beginning of 2008. But with regard to individual components of inflationary dynamics. An important part of it was the so - called food inflation or food ingredient, which was almost three percent. That's much less now. So from the very beginning, the government has developed a clear anti-inflationary programme that has started to work together with the National Bank. And it was during the first quarter that we were able to overcome negative inflationary dynamics, just as it relates to basic inflation in terms of the monetary component. And already, starting after the first quarter, we had the consequences of our anti-inflation policy, which was to lower particularly food prices, lower basic inflation, lower producer price index. No matter who speaks, in the summer months we were able to gain deflationary dynamics. This was a period when we had no deflation since 2003 and starting in the autumn months, our consumer price indices in these months were actually twice as low as in the previous year. As far as the 2009 period is concerned. We don't have any more.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u105	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u106	So our government has overcome inflation trends. And I think that's our strong gain that we can be proud of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, the question has been asked by the National Deputy Pecklusenko to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Alexander Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u108	Alexander Valentinović, first of all, you will stop your meeting there, please, you are in Parliament. Secondly, will you please tell me when we are done monitoring the use of money in Western Ukraine? I personally sent you 197 documents, of which there are virtually no answers to any of them. There is nothing we can do with you and the President's Administration to hold an outcome meeting on this very important and lively issue. [[Yulia Vladimirovna, this has something to do with you, too.]] I have a commission today with a total of half a thousand allegations that the rights of our citizens are being violated on the use of funds in Western Ukraine. And the question is, "Please tell me, how many more unemployed people do you need, how much more grief do you need in Ukraine to stop clapping, applauding and smiling?"
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the interesting question. First of all, it's about talking to the people's deputies. You know, I think. That the government is obliged to consult the people’s deputies on a regular basis in carrying out its duties. And the fact that we're even here in the Parliamentary Hall holding meetings and consulting people's deputies, it seems to me to have a lot of support. That's the first one. With regard to the work of the Follow-up Commission on the use of funds during the tragedy that took place last year in Western Ukraine. I want to say that all the documents invited by the commission, in the Cabinet of Ministers, in any case, there is no problem with providing information. All documents on my personal signature are addressed to your commission. Moreover, we agreed during our communication that the government was interested in the commission's work and careful scrutiny of the use of funds. Why? Because, you remember, here in Parliament, despite the government's proposals to centralize the funds so that they could be clearly controlled and clearly used, at the suggestion of the Party of Regions and some MEPs from the newly created EC Party, it was decided that money should be financed through local administrations. And that, of course, led to the disbursal of funds. By the way, it's only after the audit board's audit that millions of violations have been detected in this serious matter. And that's why we asked you, the honourable chairman of the commission, the honourable national deputies, to help us identify these problems and eliminate them. With regard to violations detected by the Audit Authority, all materials are provided to the power structures, particularly the Attorney General's Office. And we hope for an active response. At the same time, when a government can centralize funds, especially during the tragedy in Eupatoria, the government uses them clearly, by destination, and effectively enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u110	The National MP Mironenko refers the right to a question to a colleague named Yuri Boyko. Please, the microphone. And to whom do you ask this question right now?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u111	I have a question for the Prime Minister, Mrs. Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u112	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u113	Dear Julia Vladimirovna, in March last year you signed a contract with Rosukreenergo, where our industry received 1,800 bracelets of gas. Today you have approved new prices for industry: it is already receiving gas of 2.5 thousand. Greven, you said you removed, I quote you, brokers from the Ukrainian market. Whom, the question that you have now brought to Ukraine's market, that the price of gas has been raised from 1800 to 2.5 000 for the country's industry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u114	Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that I worked as Prime Minister in early 2005 and have not yet been brought to Ukraine by Rosukreenergo. The price of gas was $50, linked to transit in such a way that Ukraine was constantly guaranteed at a reasonable price. Therefore, it is necessary to talk about the possibility of leaving the transit and gas connections of this value and leaving the normal cost of the gas. But Rossukrenergo, who represents this gentleman, who has just asked questions, just ruined these country balances, has this relationship, and has led Ukraine to start lifting gas every year, and the transit has been signed by this gentleman for 25 years. So that's the situation I'm explaining. And by the way, for industry, I'm stressing once again, for chemical, metallurgical enterprises, by seven percent, if you calculate in currency, the price is higher this year than in the past, which is completely reasonable and much lower than in the world's prices.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u116	National Deputy Kravchuk, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Who do you have to ask?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u117	I give the word to Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u118	Vladimir Bondarenko, please
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u119	To Julia Timoshenko. I am asking Minister Novitsky to clarify the situation in the aviation industry. As far as I know, until recently, it was ruled by relatives and godfathers of today’s opposition leader. What is the financial and economic situation of the Kyiv Aviation Plant and the Kharkiv Aviation Plant today? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u120	Is there a minister? Please. Questions to the Minister of Industrial Policy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for asking. Today the situation in the aviation industry is difficult, but the measures that are being taken, they will, I'm sure, address the issue of loading aircraft factories and putting our industry on a stable, efficient job. Today, the financial and economic situation of Kharkiv and Kyiv airlines is extremely complex. In a factory in Kharkiv, the company’s debt accounts for more than one and a half billion — 1 billion, 700 million dollars. And these sums, these costs, of course, and these debts don't allow an enterprise to do an effective business. That's the first one. At the aviation plant, these debts are smaller, but they also reach a billion-dollar level. During the past year, we have resolved a number of organizational, personnel issues. The companies have appointed new managers, they are now using with the Ministry's management, government management measures that allowed them to produce and install 4 planes on the Airplane last year, 2 planes also new "AN-74300" and the first one was launched, i.e. six planes were the first to restore production on these factories. A large meeting was held the other day. in the Prime Minister, on which the issue of the refinancing of creditors' debt and the replenishment of statutory funds, the resolution of these enterprises, the resolution of these issues will not only allow them to resume effective work with time after the construction of the aircraft and.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u122	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u123	If the results we expect from these measures will allow this year to produce six aircraft and kits in one factory, and three aircraft in another factory. More than half a billion products, one billion, one and a half billion in the next year and one and a half billion in the next year.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u124	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u125	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u126	Dear National Deputies! Let's say we have a 12 o'clock break, the more during this break, I would ask the National MPs to pay tribute to the Honorary Paul of Zagreb, and that's what happens at the Cabinet Club. To get started, we continued our work at 12:30. Please head the Committee of Regulatory Affairs, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u127	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The Central Electoral Commission decided on the People's Deputy Samofalov. We would very much like to ask you to immediately take the oath of the People's Deputy Samofalov, who is here and ready to appear on the rostrum in the Supreme Council any minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u128	Dear colleagues! I had to look at this in the morning, but because we had a really rough start on this process and I just let it out of my sight. So after a break, let us go back to the subject. There's a break for 12 hours, until 12 o'clock 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u129	Dear colleagues! We continue our morning plenary session. Please take your seats. Dear National Deputies! On February 5, 2009, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, who was elected on September 30, 2007, in the multi-national constituency district of Samofal Gennady Grigorovovich, on the election list of the Party of the Regions. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. To make an oath to the rostrum, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Samofal, Gennady Grigorovich, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u130	I pledge my allegiance to Ukraine, my commitment to all my actions to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, to take care of the benefits of the homeland and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u131	Hello, Hennady Grigorovich! Please take your place in the session room. Dear colleagues, we continue to ask questions to members of the Cabinet of Ministers. [[B in m in s a l in]] By procedure of what? I'm sorry, we're going to the Cabinet now. After the break, we continue to write according to the record. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please log in with the question procedure, as there have been problems with the Ukrainian national deputies. National Deputy Ariev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, it seems like we've discussed everything here and it's such a feeling that we're going to continue this show, you might say, but it just doesn't make sense. I propose to stop asking questions because nothing else in the configuration will change and move on to the voting procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u133	Akimov's Irina Mikhailovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u134	Please pass the word to the People's Deputy of God.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u135	Theological Inna Hermanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u136	Honorable Parliamentarians, reverend Ukraine! Today, we see insolent outright contempt by Parliament, both on the part of the President of Ukraine and on the part of the Prime Minister. We cannot allow any further hearing of this issue in the Supreme Council Hall in the absence of the Prime Minister and government representatives. That is why we demand that the Government and the Prime Minister appear in bed immediately. If that is not the case, we refuse to continue this procedure. In addition, we should remember, Mr. Ariev, that after the procedure provided, statements by the faction and then by the deputies. If you think that the lie and the insolence that was today is all that's called the government report, you're very wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u137	Pisarenko Valeriy Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, well, you know, considering that today the Party of Regions has exhausted its entire “lexicon”, so to speak, yes, for communication with the government, it seems to me that really, if you still want to continue this circus and in fact only by destroying Parliament and destroying your parliamentary power. [[in quotes]] If you think the government is gone, I think we need to open our eyes and see that the government is fully present today at the Supreme Council meeting. But I want to support my colleague's initiative and I want to ask you once again, my dear colleagues, if we want to work, and not today to do the circus in this room, let's do it now in the middle of the procedure, because we've already started to sign up for the discussion, let's stop this discussion in the middle of the procedure, because we already know what you're going to say, and we'll move on to the voting procedure. I think we'll do something more quickly for the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u139	Skudar Georgi Markovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u140	Dear People's Deputies, I think we should continue our discussions because those graphs and those tables that showed us that they have very serious errors because of or not honest information. For example. It is shown in one of the schedules that in December the growth in industrial production in Ukraine was 3 per cent while it fell by 26 per cent. And a number of other mistakes that have taken place there. Therefore, we must really disclose all the information that we have been given here today, discuss it and understand how the Government is going to get our country's industry and economy out of the crisis. Moreover, we plan to raise wages this year, with GDP growth of only 0.4 per cent. It's another hoax, it's another collapse of the economy, and another collapse of prices. I believe that there is a need to continue the meeting and to have a full discussion on the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u141	Thank you. We are renewing the questions of the Ukrainian national deputies to the members of the government. Asks the question, Paul Ignatovich Sulkowski, instead of the national deputy Dach.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u142	Thank you. Today, instead of letting Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko admit all her mistakes and resign, she did not torture Ukraine, the people of Ukraine, on the next two hours from the parliamentary rostrum, she fed the people of Ukraine with her popular and empty words. And today, indeed, Ukraine is going into an irreparable, uncomplicated crisis every day. And that's why I have today's request to the faction of the Party of the Regions, to the faction of the Communists, to all the ill-feeling national MPs in this room not to stand apart if you care about the future of Ukraine, and to immediately vote in resignation to send away today's free government. If we don't do it, Ukraine will jump to no.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u143	The question of the national MP, Zdirko Hennaday Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u144	May I have a word with Mikola Tomenko?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, I have a question for Justice Minister Onichuk Mikoli Vasilovich, but before that, a small replica. Friends, you're a civilized opposition. So there's a procedure. Let us – 398 deputies – vote – go through the whole procedure and do not look for a reason to break this discussion or to break the vote. Well, it looks like this: you, like Susanine, took us into this forest and now you want us to stay there. That's my request to all deputies, to all factions. Now, questions to government members, and we ask them, we follow procedure. The government is willing to listen, and you are looking for who is or is not to vote for it. Let's vote and finish. Mikola Vasilovich, I have a question. How can you as a minister help the Chinese stop the illegal actions of the Kiev City Administration? This is what the Ministry of Justice does, and every day we have a new local tax in Kiev. I understand he doesn't register in Minsk, he disagrees. We have a tax to enter the cemetery, we have new medical taxes, and we have paid medicine in Kiev now. We have an interesting tax, you ask for businessmen, they call every day and they say they have a tax on lunch with Chernevski, depending on your status, between $7 and $20,000. Perhaps you have legalized your lunch tax at Minista? I know that Chernewsky just recorded the disc. It is said that it is now necessary for businessmen to take the money to buy the disk where it sings. Then maybe the Justice Department should stop this mess somehow because the city's attorney gave me information. They made 56 protests -- an absolute majority rejected, not even considered, 18 prescriptions -- no response from the city. So maybe someone will stop this chaos in Kiev?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u146	Please, Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u147	Thank you for asking. I want to inform the people's deputies of the following. The laws of local public administrations are subject to the law. the legal and regulatory nature is subject to mandatory registration by the authorities of the Ministry of Justice, in this particular case, the Chief Justice Office in Kiev. These acts do not take effect until they are registered with the Ministry of Justice and are entered into the relevant State Register of Acts. I can assure you that all the acts of KMDA, which. the normative nature that would violate the legitimate rights and interests of the Kyiv community and would conflict with acts of higher legal power, the registration of the Ministry of Justice would not pass.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u148	Instead of the national MP, Deputy Sovkovich asks the question of Slata Viktor Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u149	Thank you. I was just about to support Mr. Tomenko, about Susanine in the country. I don't have a question, but more of a request to the Minister of Economics, is he here? Mr. Minister, periodically, please make economic-production liquefies for government leaders, because they sometimes look strange. Indeed, only the enemy can interpret that in that year, there were only 25 million in the seventh. Grains. Ten loaves of bread were affected by the drought. The simple people stood by and fed the state. With your authority, there would certainly be a famine. By the way, in 2007, 17 percent of production is profitable. 2005 minus, 2008 minus 5 percent. Your seed, which was sown in 2009 with your support, is still gathering corn and sunflower in the snow. Don't laugh, don't roar, come back to God. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u150	The question is asked by the National MP, Kulczynski Mikola Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u151	I have a question for the entire Cabinet of Ministers, because it requires a solution to the problem requires coordinated efforts by several ministries. Department of Nature, Ministry of Finance, Water. The point is that today, in three areas of the Poltava region — Kremenchuck, Komsomoski and Kozirčany — there is a colossal problem with drinking water. And the Regional Commission on Technological and Environmental Safety recognized the situation as an extremely regional one. The point is that, as a result of the operation of the AT “Ukratatnafta” evaporator, the permissible limits around this pond and in groundwater are higher than several, sometimes by several dozen times the number of pollutants. So, today's "Qurtatnafta".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u152	Complete the question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u153	They refused to take the water to these locations. I ask the Cabinet of Ministers to immediately consider the situation in the crematory region and address the issue of drinking water, with the construction of centralized water supply.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u154	Please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u155	The issue of drinking water, the problem of artesian wells, the supply of quality water to many regions of Ukraine was extremely acute yesterday, honourable deputies, at a meeting of the Supreme Council Committee. I'd like to remind you that there's a drinking water program, once. And we have to do it this year, and we have to do it this year, and we have to complete it this year, and we are going to provide 100% of the funding for this program. And secondly, what I hope is that a decision is now made, including by the Ministry of Finance, and by the government that 150 million dollars as transitionals are returning to the special state fund of the environmental ministry. And that's why we're also going to finance this position if we don't have enough funds for the corresponding government program that works for this object. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u156	Please have a seat. Vašil Fedorovich, a question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u157	I have a question before the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, I would like to ask you this question about the existence of certain restrictions today on the organization of joint activities with state-owned enterprises. We know the state of state-owned enterprises, and today they don't have any circulation costs, they can't take credit, and investors today don't go to state-owned businesses for joint ventures. So I have a question: “What will the government today take to resolve the restrictions that it has yet to accept? ” I support that these should be controlled processes, but we have to give businesses some opportunity to involve investors. And I'd like to ask the other half of the question to pass on to Tereshuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u158	Alexander Valentinovich, please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u159	Respectable national MPs, indeed, are a priority in lending businesses and not just state-owned enterprises, but enterprises of all forms of property today. And that's why the government, together with the banks, has been working on several pieces of legislation that, as far as I know, have already passed the committees, and they need to be among the top priorities for the Supreme Council to look at it so that we don't leave the resources to speculative operations, the financial resource, to lend to the real economy. And around this issue, we have conversations, serious conversations with our colleagues at the National Bank. I hope we can work together to find the formula. And today, this is the most important priority that depends on development at all, the constant development of the economy. When we don't solve this problem and the money won't go into the real economy, we understand that there will be both budget programs and all the other programs, and all life will actually be hit hard. That's why we know this problem. And once again, this is where the head of the National Bank sits, this is the question for our joint work. And I hope that it will be resolved soon.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u160	National MP Potopchuk, faction of the Timoshenko Yulia. Please, who do you have a question for?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u161	I have a question for First Vice Prime Minister Alexander Turkinov. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, how much will Ukrainian agro-industry enterprises be provided with financial resources for spring-field jobs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u162	My dear colleague, just yesterday, when I am not mistaken, under the leadership of the Prime Minister, there was a meeting devoted to the activation of the field work itself, and there was an APC minister present who could tell us in detail about these problems. Today we've started the process, and in the southern regions of our country, it's a day-to-day issue. The government has set a challenge both for the Ministry of Agriculture and Industry, and for the Ministry of Fuel and Energy to solve problems, primarily the problem of fuel supply. The second issue discussed with the Ministry of Industry and the corresponding serious discussion took place with all chemical industry managers regarding mineral fertilizers. This is where we plan to direct both credit and technical resources to ensure this issue. And I'm convinced that the result that the agrarians showed last year will also be confirmed in the current swarm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u163	People's MP Kamchatny, faction of Yulia Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u164	Stone, Kharkishka. First of all, I would like to express my support for the thesis that was expressed by the Prime Minister on the need to unite the efforts of all politicians in a difficult time for the country. Indeed, the wisdom of political elites throughout the world shows us that in times of crisis it is necessary to unite, not disunity, and work to destroy one another. And I have a question for Alexander Valentinovich to Turkey, until the first Vice-Prime Minister. Please tell me the disaster was, this explosion in Eupatoria is one of those sad cases where people died and great casualties. Question: How have the consequences of this accident been eliminated so far, and what does the government do in general to ensure that such incidents do not occur in the next? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u165	Thank you for asking. You know, this is a really terrible tragedy that took place at the end of last year, that people died, and unfortunately, the expertise that was carried out confirmed that it was the negligence of local authorities, the negligentness of municipal structures that led to such terrible consequences. At the same time, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Emergency Situations has worked very professionally and responsibly, which has literally solved all the problems in these days -- and saved 24 Ukrainian citizens, 24 people. Moreover, I have to say that in connection with the concentration of resources, when the Cabinet of Ministers directly through the Ministry of Ministry solved the problems, there were very tight deadlines for dealing with and disposing of all the affected citizens, and for the displacement of the citizens who remained on the roads that had not been affected, but for living in which people simply did not want to. And I'm informing the Supreme Council that everyone who lived in the house, whose part of it was destroyed, got new apartments, got new apartments, moved to these apartments. And virtually all families have improved their living conditions. And, of course, the question of the municipal services involved in the activities of local authorities is now under strict control of the Cabinet of Ministers. All tasks given to both the Ministry of Education and the local authorities to verify the use of basements, the use that may pose a threat to citizens, should be stopped immediately. That's the problem, and it's taken on very strict control. And a few more words. Here, before the conversation began, the prime minister was asked to speak to the MPs. I inform you that the Prime Minister is on the Supreme Council. Now we use time and work, the Cabinet of Ministers works for the Supreme Council, because we have too long been having conversations, too long, instead of the government working, we have to have very interesting communication here. And the Prime Minister is holding very responsible negotiations with the International Monetary Fund's leadership right now in the Supreme Council's office, and I hope that the negotiations will now end and she will continue the interesting conversation that is taking place today in the Parliamentary Hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u166	The National Deputy Popov has the right to a question instead of Clovis, please, the faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u167	Thank you. I have a question for the Minister of Housing and Utilities, Kucherenko, Alexei Juryevich. Alexei Juryevich, I don't think you can argue against the fact that, while leaving, the Government of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic has left a positive trend in stabilizing the financial and economic situation in the area of housing and utilities. Among them, we have prevented the increase in housing and utility tariffs. Unfortunately, everything changed over the year with accuracy, even the industry's wages increased 12 times and housing and utility prices nearly 30 per cent. And these trends are taking place today. I have a question for you, please tell me, aren't you and the Government as a whole ashamed of this result of activities in the housing and utilities sector? And when will there be concrete proposals for stabilizing the situation in this sector?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u168	Dear Alexander Pavlovich! If you speak correctly there, shame is not a shame. Let's be the language of fact, the so-called growth that you're talking about in the area of housing and utilities, and you know very well what was done by the Court of Auditors in an independent audit in 2007. And the result of this test was that you and I, like MPs, billions of dollars that pay taxpayers in the budget, we put them in the field, and everything gets worse. Loss of water, heat, that is, this system of leadership, and more unbiased industry, which, unfortunately, today is our common pain. Regarding tariffs. You know, I'm not comfortable with you, the former town head, the truth, the city, but a prosperous city like Komsomolsk reminding me that housing and utility tariffs set up local self-government. You know, in our own time, I, as a deputy, along with your colleagues, by the way, Mr. Kinach, the bill on the creation of an independent regulator's body that would actually set tariffs for the services of natural monopolies and it wouldn't depend on the organs of local self-government. Unfortunately, your faction did not support this bill. And so, Alexander Pavlovich, it's very normal that today you and Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic are already giving, you see, in a year your point of view has changed and you've realized how right we were two years ago and that's a very good result, by the way. In two years, you see, there are positive trends. And that's why, Alexander Pavlovich, the main thing is that yesterday you and I adopted a program, a new edition of the first-reading reform program. She was on your committee last September, but only yesterday did she enter the Hall, Reverend Alexander Pavlovich! And I think it's the implementation of this program that will answer all of our questions to our people who are today, well, we're trying to find out in a non-professional discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u169	Dear National Deputies! The time for questions to the Cabinet is exhausted. The Ariev People’s Deputy has the right to a replica. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u170	Dear colleagues! To be honest, it's embarrassing for this kind of politics. The initiators of today’s report by the government in the blue sector during today’s discussion did not offer anything. Only general and unprofessional criticism! Not even criticism, but criticism! Do you think that under these conditions a change in leadership will lead to a situation in the state? It's two, you know, it's two months of personnel questions all over the vertical! And during this time, the country will be finally to the bottom! And this show doesn't add anything to the crisis, it's only going to embarrass the state, unfortunately!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u171	Thank you. No! No! We have already defined the procedure. Dear National Deputies! We need to consult and make a decision. May I have your attention, please? We still have the factions, the speeches of the national MPs, the speeches of the district councils of the two people. Discussing and making decisions. So there is a proposal that we conclude the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the conclusion of the consideration of this issue. So I'm going to put to the vote such a proposal, please note, to continue the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the finalization of the question that we are currently discussing. But we should also consider the fact that at sixteen o'clock we are considering another issue: appointment and dismissal of judges. So I would ask that we work properly. I am voting on the continuation of the morning session before the conclusion of the debate on the socio-economic situation in Ukraine and the actions of the authorities to overcome the crisis, please vote. [[13:00:55]] For 241 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, “Club of Timoshenko” – 155, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 40, Communist faction – 26, “Clocus of Lithuania” – 20. Honorable National MPs, announcements. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” and article 59 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine Samofal Gennady Grigorovovich into the composition of the Party of the Party of the Regions. One more thing, dear fellows, you know, I'm asking you to step aside for a moment, if you don't mind, from the consideration of the question. A large group of motorists have now gathered near the Supreme Council of Ukraine to block the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. They've given the address to the Supreme Council and they'd like to hear that I'm taking our stand with you right now. Those requirements contained in the address of the Ukrainian Autoowners' Council will now be referred to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and the relevant professional committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for consideration and consideration, because in many cases it is necessary to say that there is a fair set of issues that we need to implement, taking into account the opinion of the people, in accordance with the Rules and the actual legislation governed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. For example, please write this question down for five minutes. Dear colleagues, we will either fight, or we will conclude our consideration of the matter. Yeah. All right. It's a deal. You didn't say. Please, on the sign of the name of the national MPs. Oleg Lukashuk, faction of the Timoshenko Yulia Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u172	Please pass the word to Teryochin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u173	Who? Sergey Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u174	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! I would just like to make it clear that today at 2.30 p.m., there will be a meeting of a committee of profile that will consider the proposals of national deputies and government proposals to bring about the normal state of the transport congregation. The government gave the final version yesterday of what might reduce the degree of deceleration, yes, the degree of deceleration and. On the one hand, on the other hand, it will be a normal source for financing the road economy. Therefore, we will be happy to consider these references and to consider them as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u175	Alla Alexandrovska, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u176	Please pass the word to Martinjuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u177	Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u178	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! You're absolutely right to say that those demands that caregivers deserve our careful attention because, unfortunately, I'm no longer tired of saying that what some committees did before New Year's Eve just led to similar decisions. I would very much like to have the committee of profile today, the committee head, look closely at all the bills, because there is one of the first, if not the first, bill that prepared the leader of our faction Simonenko, where he speaks of the need to return to the eastern positions in the transport congregation. Those draconian measures that have been taken must be abolished and returned to the law that has been in force until now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u179	Thank you. National Deputy Komar faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u180	Please pass the word to the deputy of Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u181	Alexander Sergiyovich Efraem’s microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u182	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Today we listened attentively to a statement in this Prime Minister's Hall, which said with contempt that some 10 cars had arrived there and that something was “needed”. Therefore, Vladimir Mihajlovich, we ask you to confirm how many people are still under the Supreme Council building. According to our testimony, there are 2,000 people there. And then, once again, we will see that every word from the Prime Minister's mouth has a basic lie that we cannot allow in this room. That's why I'm asking you to record again. The right was still the Prime Minister when she said that there were 10 people, or the right people, who are two thousand today under the Supreme Council Hall. And whose proposal has been that people today talk about and fight literally on the street and today pretend that there is nothing to do with the current Cabinet of Ministers and those who are trying to review it is at least perfection.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u183	Thank you. National Deputy Grivkovski, “Block of Lithuania” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u184	Please pass the word to Zarubin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u185	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u186	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! If people came to Kiev to the Supreme Council, there is a problem. So they're in pain. It hurts, including what we did. And, you know, wisdom is not about rejecting everything, but wisdom is about obviously correcting disagreements and mistakes. If this matter has become relevant today and it unites the entire session room, it is likely that we should accept the invitation of the Head of Parliament to work professionally on the committees. With the government that has already declared publicly that it is ready to make changes to what has been accepted with a view to softening, softening, and actually meeting people. But I really don't want to see today's socio-economic situation being discussed trying to break up. Let us no longer make any suggestions that go to the detriment of the consideration of the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u187	Lilia Stepanovna Grigorovich, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u188	Please pass the word to Kseniya Lapiniya.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u189	Xenia Leapina, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u190	Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine!” We certainly support the demands of our automobiles today. I would like to point out that today there is also a call to the Supreme Council of Entrepreneurs, also from all regions of Ukraine. What are automobiles and entrepreneurs who are all suffering from the fact that you and I make wrong decisions? And you have to admit that, dear colleagues. We are part of the problem that caused this outrage today. Why does this happen? Because we are constantly considering the important serious issues that affect millions of citizens under reduced procedures without having any economic justification, no calculations, no Minfin, or any of our forces making these calculations. And we make decisions with our finger in the sky. It's all over again.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u191	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we exchanged our thoughts on this matter. I think it will calm people for a while who have approached the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm just asking your colleagues to make sure that the committees respond appropriately to those requests that will be addressed to you. The national deputy Popov called for a replica, his last name was called three times. Please. And we keep working.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u192	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u193	As far as I'm concerned. I'm sorry. As for Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov's proposal, I ask the apparatus to clarify how many people we will announce. The important thing is that we solve the problem. Please, Alexander Ephraim. Please, National Deputy Popov. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u194	Dear colleagues, again, from the Minister, this has been the case before the Government, with charges against the head of the armed forces of the local government that they are raising tariffs on housing and utilities. I want to tell you that he doesn't want the city mayor to be that way anymore, because then all the arrows are headed for him. And I'll tell you, it's your fault that over the course of the year, you've raised prices for gas, electricity, and you've gone into the pockets of the population. It's your fault. Why are you accusing the local authorities of this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u195	Dear National Deputies! The factions are about to come from the faction. Please sign up. Within 10 minutes of each faction. Please give me the name of the national MPs when the entry is complete. Yes, Peter Stepanovich Cibenko. The next one will be a representative of the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. And then from the deputies, we'll sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u196	Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The issue put into the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine should not be overemphasized as the problem of preserving Ukraine as a state and its people. The moment of truth has come when you have to put all the dots above and. Ukraine over the gap. The economy is in absolute decline. The situation is virtually out of control today. That is why today, more than ever before, the problem is not only the resignation of the government, although this is probably the first, but also the problem of the preparation and implementation of the impeachment procedure of President Viktor Yushchenk of Ukraine. Without a solution, these interrelated tasks remain good wishes and good intentions. By voting on some of the crisis laws, we gave the government a chance to get Ukraine out with any non-standard decisions, including the involvement of oligarchs, bankers, employers. But the practical actions of the government have shown that the money bags for him are sacred cows. The Communists cannot agree. Recently, the Prime Minister reported that the government is negotiating with six powerful financially stable countries in the world about possible financial assets due to the financial crisis. So we're under 100 billion dollars of consolidated external debt to all subjects of the Ukrainian economy, government, private sector, and banking. If we count this debt at the current rate of 8 to 9 dollars per dollar, it's going to be 800 to 900 billion dollars or 80 percent of the gross domestic product of Ukraine. All of this has put Ukraine at full risk of default. The risk of default as a real threat is no longer limited to Ukrainian politics, as suggested by UN experts who point directly to the problems of the Ukrainian economy. Unbalanced budget, lack of hard monetary policy, lack of a single economic action plan, high inflation, and a threatening amount of external borrowing. It is both funny and bitter to see how information about the collapse of Ukraine’s economy at the signature of the minister of finance appears first on the Internet and then persists with the government. The struggle is only around the authorship, but no one denies the content of the document in essence. You can understand Victor Pinzenic's wish to preserve the rest of his reputation as an economist, even an economicsman, but you have to be consistent to the end and share all responsibility with the government. So Ukraine’s Company is once again stressing that Ukraine, as a state, is being deflated. What have been the reasons? The first reason is the drowsy non-professionalism and involvement of the government team. If it is a coincidence, as one coalition member put it, it can generally be called a team. Judging from the diametric contrast between the situation of ordinary citizens and government officials, there is a strong belief that government officials and voters live in different countries, in different Ukraines. The second is the war on mutual destruction, which is waged tirelessly and relentlessly by the two highest officials of Ukraine, President Yushchenko and Prime Minister Timoshenko. If it were a matter of mutual physical destruction of two persons, it would be another half of the disaster, but the State has become a hostage of this war, Ukraine. They both stubbornly destroy the state and the people. The loss of this undeclared war is now in part with the expense of the Great War of the country. Ukraine’s company is absolutely convinced that the state cannot afford luxury to have the highest leadership that runs counter to national interests. Reason three. It is now quite clear that the government's strategy to combat the consequences of the global financial and economic crisis has failed successfully. Costs from the first tranche of the International Monetary Fund have been successfully distributed among close to the governing elite by banking institutions. Where is the promised financial and economic stability? Where is the stability of the banking system? I'm not asking where the support of bank investors and loans for the real economy is anymore. After all, they swore that the credits they paid would go solely to the support of the investors and would be a real factor in the rescue of the domestic manufacturer. It did not happen, as the Communists warned. Among these, the owners of individual banking institutions managed to eat better on “this pyre during the plague. ” As one well - known movie hero put it, “the money was easy to cut. ” Some of them’s wealth grew by billions of dollars in a very short period of time. But the particular opposition and indignation in the Communist faction sparks the government and the government coalition's efforts to translate the full burden of the financial and economic crisis into the shoulders of the worker, the taxpayer, the pensioner, the veteran, the disabled. By the beginning of January, there had been 845 thousand unemployed in Ukraine, and if you add unemployment as a self-employed person, a part-time job and a part-time job, that figure is increasing at the same time. The government, with no blink of an eye, called back to the Supreme Council the draft State Budget of Ukraine, and in the process of processing it bit off the minimum wage rate of 165 dollars per month for each worker. On an annual scale, he pulled at least 2,000 bracelets out of each worker’s pocket. And that's in terms of gross price increases. Ukraine’s company and its faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine will never agree with that gift, in paws, in the form of a draft Law 3556, which the government, along with government factions, prepares for pensioners. This is about trying to get more than six billion dollars out of pensioners' pockets by changing pension legislation. One of the officials, you see, seemed like Ukrainian citizens were getting too big pensions, and they decided to make some adjustments. By the way, over 10 million dollars. Ukrainian citizens or 77 percent of all pensioners receive a pension of between 500 and 1,000 dollars. But even from these pitiful pensions, 1 in 4 bracelets has already been eaten by inflation. I am particularly hurt to talk about this, because I am the first deputy head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, as well as the first deputy head of the largest veteran organization, the Organization of Veterans of Ukraine. And this list of unworthy acts of power can go on indefinitely. Or, perhaps, the truth is told by government officials when they claim that there is no money at every turn. Then the question arises: Where did the $150 million in money come from? The money to build only the first line of the memorial complex of the victims of famine in Ukraine? The total cost is expected to be about 750 million. That's right. The United States of America’s poor have been delayed for several years because of the crisis of building a memorial for the victims of the September 11 terrorist act. Can't we do that? Don't we need that? But the situation is particularly indignant that on November 5, 2008, when a full - scale crisis broke out at the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the government of the Reserve Fund allocated 60 million dollars to this memorial. And it's not a single case. Looking at Kiev, Ivano-Frankovsky builds the Bandery Memorial to the heavens, which he uses 70 million bracelets. And these zealous “patriots” are not at all confused by the fact that this memorial, like many other things, is built at the expense of the budgetary resources made in the South and the East. But the most important example of this is, of course, the President of Ukraine, rebuilding his 16 residences. Dear colleagues, the UK Company in this situation will support the decision to resign the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u197	Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, faction of "The Yulia Timoshenko". Next is Mikola Martinenko. Ladies and gentlemen, while our colleague is on his way, I inform you that according to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, some 400 people have been present and are still near the Supreme Council and almost 100 cars. Please, Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u198	Dear Head, colleagues, dear voters! The truth is, the experts who claim that our own daughter is a country of unique paradoxes. Please tell me, is there in the world a state that, under such extreme economic conditions, when survival is at stake, has such a disunited political elite and such a fierce opposition? The entire civilized world today has united efforts to combat the new threats and challenges, and in Ukraine alone, despite the people’s strong calls for unity and understanding, the tsunami of self - destruction continues to grow. In fact, the most important work structure in the country has been thrown into the epicenter of the scene. For the sake of justice, who would deny the fact that in 17 years of independence has not yet been in history, the government has experienced such unprecedented political pressure. No government has worked under such conditions when it is forced not to work, to fight on so many fronts at the same time, and to overcome constant, almost daily artificial obstacles. Never before in the history of Ukraine has there been such open opposition from the head of state. It has never been so difficult in its relations with Parliament and such hypertrophobic repoliticization of life. This is the only Ukrainian government that has been forced to work in almost full isolation for the first time in the history of the state. This seems absurd, but it's obvious that the executive vertical of power is artificially destroyed. The governors and the Cabinet of Ministers are actually different branches of government. It's not enough that half of the government that's created on a quota basis is definitely against any principled decision. These are the internal causes of the crisis, and everyone is crying out for populism. Foreign viewers call this a diagnosis, not a paradox, but a long time ago they waved their hand at us. For who would want to deal with a country where almost every day, on every channel in the morning until the night, differentliberal politicians, instead of blowing up their sleeves and working, are watering the government, and, on the other hand, the country, dirty, are calling for all kinds of resignations, early elections, acts of disobedience! Someone in hysteria screams that his “hand of the Kremlin” is shaking at night, others are threatened by NATO, someone is suffering from a state disease, or even a coup! The world laughs. Their own people are indignant. And today is not an exception. What does our veneration want, but the opposition burned well over the winter holidays? You, like the birds of the spring, have been brought back from warm places where you have fought so hard for the rights of local Aborigines in Canary, Seychelles, and Maldives. What do they say, "were a little bit shelled"? [[Applause]] . Do you want power? To play politics? Is taking full responsibility for the country’s destiny at large? If so, do so in a civilized way. Form your coalition, form a government, and get to work, but do not engage in destructive activities. It's too expensive for both the country and the citizens. Today you accuse the government and its prime minister of all mental and unthinkable sins and calculations, putting the blame on everything, from the work of the JECQ, to the beatings on the rural road! Let us be honest with the people! It would not have been a country before the presidential election, sitting quietly in this room like a red mouse, and thanking the Most High for not having fallen out of a cup of soybeans. This is the first and foremost reason for today’s show. But it would not prevent the authors of the Constitution to see who is responsible and whose plow is to be feathered. And that's clearly what it says. The central government's main task is to create a level playing field for all forms of ownership and management, collect taxes and fairly divide them between those who can't and can't. Hasn't the government done this job in a year? Despite the massive inflationary legacy of the predecessors in the first half of the year, the brutal impact of the crisis at the end of 2008, nearly sixty-six billion dollars more than the opposition government in 2007, in which, by the way, they say, everything was wonderful and wonderful. But what was the level of the shadow economy, they didn't talk about it, but they didn't forgive it. That's the second reason. Unless they're just capitulating on the gas front. There, too, have recently been so many billions of rings turned around that some still have their heads. And today, in the end, both Ukraine and Russia have come up with a long-awaited perspective that will finally make it impossible to put constant political pressure on our country. Now there are no intermediaries and there is a reasonable price for gas. The outside blackmail is over, everything is completely clear and transparent, and inside the country the hysteria is only unfolding, for such things are not so easily forgiven. That's the third reason. But now these three are enough to say, quarter, wheel and hang, that is to humiliate, trample and destroy Julia Timoshenko as the main competitor in the presidential election, that is all, that is to say, honestly, and we have the whole nation covered up. For people at large, you have to talk. But first of all, you have to ask the owners of steamboats, factories, planes, and where your responsibility, Mr. Billionaires, is for the hundreds of thousands of people you're dumping on the street today. The state, the government, the government have created you unique opportunities to privatize and make a lot of profits. The rain of gold fell on your heads for almost ten years. But at the time, little has been done to modernize, to renovate, to save energy. There are almost no new competitive technologies. As we were released to semi-manufactured squares, locks, sweaters, fittings, we continue to release them. Where are the transformers or car steel that is used in the market and costs more? Is the government guilty again? Oh, no. We have to finish these games, and ask everyone who deserves what they deserve -- the owners -- for jobs, wages, unemployment, energy consumption, all the more so that a number of laws that support these difficult times of the national producer have already been voted on here. And the main concern of the government and us, the MPs, for the most vulnerable part of society -- 14 million pensioners and almost a million unemployed -- is essentially half of the country's adult population. Whether there are bills in Parliament that regulate or fill the Pension Fund and the Employment Fund, there is! Let us consider and accept immediately. Why do we not want to establish justice for at least a year because there is no country in the world where pensions of 90 percent of pensioners are ten times less than in white cells? This is not even the case, but it is up to us to pay our pension in a stable and regular manner. Everyone's crying out for a budget review today, we don't mind, but we're looking into who's going to be in this room to take someone's money and pass it on to someone. Hence, laws must first be adopted that will allow us to fill the profitable part of our treasury. There can only be one approach here, not to increase the pressure on the manufacturer, but to expand the tax base, to curb lobbyists' appetites, one to protect its wells, that liquor, that tobacco, that other contraband, that free economic zones, the third to the last to stand against land auctions, four not to pay for essentially illegally captured land in the coastal strip. It's just a strange situation that comes out to capture a forest piece of land illegally on the sea, lakes or rivers for years paid bribes that are measured by billions of dollars, today to pay a penny to really help those who are in need, in the hall of hysterics against the spirit, and these costs would be inconclusive: the Employment Fund, the Euro-2012, and especially the local budgets. There are other sources, such proposals in the hall are already available and will be, let's look at them and make immediate decisions, and then the sum of the first quarter can be redistributed, without any doubt supporting social programs and agriculture. At the last, we would like to emphasize in particular the Prime Minister's words. Today foreign food import borders are covered with a costly dollar. And what's coming is cloudy prices: rice, citrus, tea. This is good for our peasants because their production will be required. But agrarians will need to be supported so that domestic food prices are also not spaceable and inaccessible to most compatriots. That's why we have to decide, and the government solves the problem of both cheap fertilizers and fuel and subsidies for grown bread and livestock, and especially affordable loans. The last one is extremely important. After all, 70 percent of the spring soybeans depend on the bank’s capital. Today this source is paralyzed for known reasons. And we're very surprised at the position of the faction of the Party of Regions, which, to the last under various circumstances, together with the head of state, protects an opaque and incomprehensible monetary policy. Dozens of billions of dollars in the second half of 2008 went to Agriam, the metallurgy, the chemists, the builders? Yeah, no. Mostly for currency speculation and destruction of bracelets. And you almost every day blamed Timoshenko for those unfortunate 6 billion compensable deposits. But maybe we've had enough panic and theatrical hysteria, saying the whole end, the country's gone, everything's gone. We need to work, not have a tragic comedy! Thank God Parliament finally worked. Together with the government, by combining our efforts with constructive forces, we will be able to cope with the challenges, and we will do so. Let's finish the show, friends, and get to work. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u199	Mikola Martinenko is invited from the faction “Our Ukraine, the People’s Self - Defense, to prepare Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u200	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished deputies and members of the government! In a time of crisis, more than ever, we need to be united in our politics and in our society. Instead, we see a sharpening political struggle, an attempt at accounting. But today our citizens are deeply concerned about political opposition. People have a very different concern: the fluctuation of bracelets, credits, industrial recovery, work, and tax relief. The government and the parliamentary coalition are formed and they work. I urge the opposition not to put sticks in the wheels. The situation calls for mutual understanding and compromise on the part of politicians. Let us look to historical experience. In modern history, economic and political crises have always resulted from the achievement of social consensus, through social pact policies. A classic example is Spain after the fall of Franco: a broken society at the borders of civil war, a severe economic crisis. But hostile political forces have found the courage to limit their ambitions. A well-known “Monkloa Pact”, a global social treaty, has been drafted. There were three main points: first, reconciliation with respect to understanding history, refusal to find the winners and the winners of civil war; second, the establishment of democratic rules in politics; third, the creation of guarantees for minorities. The political compromise allowed Spain to resolve the economic crisis. The opposition agreed with the harsh anti - crisis measures of power. In doing so, the authorities committed themselves to protecting vulnerable species of the population. In the early 1990s, the model of social consensus was successfully used in Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic. As a result of social pacts, transitional posttotalitarian periods were carried out here with minimal losses. For example. In 1994 a political and economic crisis broke out in Hungary after the parliamentary elections. The pact was then made by intransigence political opponents of socialists and right - centeredists. They formed a coalition, and together they brought the country out of a difficult state. More recently, we saw elections in the United States. But when the country faced a crisis, both Obama and McCain, the Democrats and the Republicans stopped fighting and unanimously took a package of crisis measures. Ukraine needs to consider these lessons in history. It's not confrontation, it's consensus. It's not opposition, it's compromise. This is the only possible path that leads Ukraine from the chasm. These seem to be obvious truths, but today we hear other calls from the Party of Regions and the Secretariat of the President. Instead of uniting the efforts of all branches of government, they speak of the resignation of the government. We all understand why government mistrust is being raised, the presidential election campaign started. All means are in motion. But the economy of the state was the hostage of this war. And it's in a time of crisis. We need to stop political speculation and calm society. So our faction supported the consideration of the confidence of the Cabinet of Ministers. Let's get an answer, which government does most of Parliament and most of society want? The government of Timoshenko or the government of Yanukovich? I don't see any other way. And together with that government that gets a sense of trust, we're going to deal with immediate socio-economic issues. I'm sure votes for mistrust are not enough for the Cabinet of Ministers. The question is different. What will be the next action of the Party of Regions? The consideration of the question of the resignation of Kabmin will be a test not so for the coalition as for the opposition. Will the Party of Regions be able to stop trying to shake things up? Are you ready to engage in hard work? Because on Monday, the leader of the Party of Regions said that the party was ready to work together with the authorities to deal with the consequences of the economic crisis. On Wednesday, though, he stated that he had changed his mind and was not going to do so. He said there's no real anti-crisis program in power. Having forgotten perhaps dozens of antichrist laws passed by the government to the Supreme Council. In the meantime, the slogans for concern for people were regional, and this is a promising and influential political power, with every opportunity to confirm the cause. Unfortunately, so far we see in the opposition only a desire to return to power at all costs. But this price looks too high for the country. It also seemed strange and inconsistent to block Parliament's work by the Party of Regions on Tuesday. Why set up these dances with swords around the parliamentary rostrum? In times of crisis, these are dances above the chasm. If Parliament’s work in crisis continues to break down, voters will soon start dealing with sabotagers, according to wartime laws. As far as a well - known principle could be realized, there is no bad situation that a politician could not make worse. One opposition leader of the day said: “Eyes are afraid and hands do. ” So let's talk about eyes and hands. Let's face it. In times of crisis, we cannot allow our own hands to deepen it through the resignation of the government, as well as early parliamentary elections or the impeachment of the President. Any political upheaval works for a split. I therefore propose that, after the government vote, all political issues be closed as soon as possible and that we all move on to the economy. In particular, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" introduced a series of important socio-economic bills this week. And the Party of Regions has made, and the government, and all the factions are proposing their decision. So why do we not now adopt laws, adopt laws, and spend time on political disputes? I will remind the well - known truth that someone who throws dirt loses ground under his feet. It's very simple and tempting to play the negative. It is very easy in times of crisis to form loud slogans in an angry society and even hate their political opponents. It is far more difficult to achieve design in these conditions, to form, not an enemy, but an anti-crisis program, and to achieve the approval of these measures by society. Let's not look for simple ways in politics. We all promised the electorate to defend the interests of the Ukrainian people. When coalitions and opposition come together, it yields good results. We've adopted important, useful laws for people. For example, yesterday we voted together for the National Programme for Housing Reform and Development. There were 391 voices in the hall. And for the reconciliation of, for example, the Children's Rights Act with international legal standards, 378 votes. And there were so many examples of this even yesterday. Together, we can work successfully. But only if we are not divided by political contradictions. Unfortunately, many of the questions raised in Parliament are too politicized and conflicted. I've already offered to introduce a moratorium on the establishment of the commission of inquiry into the presidential election. The reason is that they don't investigate much, but they've become pianist courses, but that's not enough. I urge my colleagues to think about such a proposal -- today to consider the last political issue in the current session, so that all factions will commit themselves by the end of the session to submit to the House exclusively an economic and social bill. The whole Parliament must become the only team to combat the economic crisis. That is what our voters expect of us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u201	The speech is given by Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Next is a speech from the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u202	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Respectful citizens, respected colleagues, when one of the Ukrainians who made significant progress in organizing their own business in London asked: “How did you do it in a crisis like this”, he replied, “And when I arrived in Britain, I hardly knew English, so I didn’t watch TV, read newspapers, so I didn’t know there was a serious crisis. I was just doing my best, and I was doing my best, and I was doing my best." Clearly, I had no idea not to teach foreign languages. I would like to point out that constant pedaling and forced with apocalyptic notes is a manifestation of another reincarnation in Ukrainian politics and the behavior of the legendary Cossack Mama, who sits and watches, sits and watches. And the real thing is, it's not. I'm convinced that foreign observers, valid commentators, self-in love with all the questions in one person today are not needed by anyone. Foreign counsel may be useful, but, obviously, when their authors are in action or are hiding in exile; advice from a foreigner of power is kind of a presidential, or parliamentary, but all MPs, whatever their position is, are also the bearers of power, the legislative authority, they look strange, no matter how much they want to take responsibility and translate into others, especially under the present conditions, which are already mentioned here. Because six months ahead of time, which coincides with the time limits of the fourth session of the Supreme Council -- not a test, not a test anymore, but a serious exam for all of us who are here, for those who are not here, and should be when we consider today's issue, at least wise people would do so. So, I'm sure the time for examination for politicians is up. The exams will be different, but the main one is the aptitude and adequacy exam and the challenges and the demands of time. And I repeat, the test is not for observation, it's for effectiveness. We do well to pass tests, to overcome a crisis that may result in gradual recovery or a fatal outcome during illness. I understand that, unfortunately, not all politicians have been able to read and learn in secondary school from the extracurricular reading of William Tekkerei's book "The Fair of laity", in Russian, "The Tshishlavia Fair". And most of all, what ends this fair of futility. But obviously, the fact is that the overwhelming power instincts, the futility and ambition, by the way, are often densely entirely baseless ambitions, increasingly taking hostages of basic common sense. And basic common sense enters into a clear dissonance with scenarios to break up the Ukrainian Parliament, to move personal complexes, I emphasize, personal complexes into public policy. In fact, tear the country apart by leading the situation to absurdity. Against the backdrop of the entire civilized world’s crisis, the collective effort of everyone and everyone in every normal country to aggravate the situation in Ukraine’s own political folly immorally and unconscionably with regard to citizens, for it is clear to everyone that it is a war in which there will be no winners, but more than all that the people lose. We played, gentlemen, a game of politics for some has become political. Instead of the iron, monolithic, consolidated will multiplied by the penal work of all — intrigue, the musculoskeletal musculoskeletal, as if in an agonizing bunker. The faction of the “Block of Lithuania” sees such things as unsuspecting and destructive. For the time being, it is wise to turn the disgusting page of the quarrel, image, and word of fornication as soon as possible. For all the dignitaries, there is enough work in front of them because unbiased professionals understand well that the very structure of the Ukrainian economy, its energy efficiency, its outdatedness and the weariness of the equipment of enterprises have given our economy a crisis character for many years. And that's despite individual local and temporary surges. During all the years of independence, Ukraine’s structural economic reforms have not been implemented in Ukraine, and if they are absolutely accurate, they have not begun. The so-called “great business”, and according to a large account, if you look at its origins and its sources of formation, the erzac business managed to grow with power and to paralyze with it on the old economic potential of the country. In other words, this corporate hybrid consumed what the previous generation had acquired, less than anything, thinking about tomorrow's problems. Can anyone name Ukrainian Bill Gates as being able to do what he did with his own head and his own intelligence? Do you know their names? I don't, for example. So everybody knows that they're going where they're going. Moreover, the economic risks to Ukraine's economy arise both from the unpredictability of changing key parameters for the development of the world economy and from the inability to adequately meet the country's basic external economic challenges under the influence of negative internal development processes. Political instability has become a major factor in the decline in investment activity, both by domestic producers and by foreign investors. And that's going to stop and stop the stabilization processes. The lack of direct restructuring, the delay in establishing an institutional infrastructure base, which is geared towards ensuring medium and small business access to financial, innovation and human development resources, has led to a long-term decline in the potential of economic recovery. Shortening real-sector lending has a negative impact on the level of sufficiency of business and organisation sales and reduces investment opportunities and profit opportunities. What I'm saying right now is that he's in the National Academy of Sciences research report for the edition of the Guitz Academy. Like the fact that it is finally necessary to start implementing an economic policy based on the new principles of creating a regulatory environment, which provides for the State to guarantee ownership rights and equal opportunities for competition, I repeat, equal opportunities for competition, including, and obtaining resources controlled by the State. During this period, it is also extremely important to focus the state's investment activity on the floor and the renewal of the entire range of components of manufacturing and financial infrastructure. After all, the recipes are different and there's a lot of them. At the same time, whatever they may be, in our view, in terms of the Lithuanian Block, an absolute axiom should be an exceptional requirement and an exceptional postulate for all. There is no way to deal with total crisis from the poorest levels of the population, to the elderly, where there are no additional sources of income from retirement to retirement, from wages to wages. Because, as we know, “someone's soup is rare and some people's pearls are small.” Now is such a time that right up to the first, largest and most vulnerable category of our citizens must be given special attention by the state as an institution. So let me say again: For all the dignitaries, enough work is enough. The “Lithuania Block” for the session that began yesterday to become a session of operational and, at the same time, balanced decisions, constructive sessions, coordinated and efficient work. Society is tired of the destroyers. Society needs builders. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u203	Janukovitch Victor Fedorovich of the “Party of the Regions” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u204	Dear Ukrainian people, distinguished national deputies, members of the meeting, heads of district councils! I was sitting in this room right now, listening to all those who were speaking carefully, and one thing came to my mind, please tell me why we're here with the national MPs, who we've been working together for a long time, and we're fighting. Tell me, is it a problem that we're going to discuss the state of affairs in the state today? Why did this cause such opposition? Are we not Ukrainian citizens or are we other citizens of another Ukraine? Are we the same people who ask us questions today, and what has happened to the country lately, whether it's an accident or not, whether we're in this very serious crisis or not? So let's sit down with you and discuss the situation in our common house. Why is there no President of Ukraine today? Why there's no head of government today, she's not interested that she didn't expect to hear what the national MPs will say, I'll tell you that it's not an accident, it's happened a little over four years ago, there's a crisis in Ukraine, there's a crisis, because there's an irresponsible, irresponsible, lying team coming to power. [[Applause]] What we got in 2005 after this team came to power, it came to power when the economy was on the rise, more than 12 percent was GDP growth, which happened in the first year, economic growth declined more than five times, and five times more, a little more than two percent was GDP growth by the end of 2005. What we've seen all along, the show, the kisses, the hugs, the dances, the visits to other countries, and the stories of how we won and took power. And what they promised the voters, the voters promised Maidan a better life, under the slogans that this team came to power, if it did, I'd tell you that today we'd be with you, we'd be with you, and as someone they say everyone would find their place and we'd thank you, but for what we've thanked. Thanks for ruining the country’s economy in 2005, and the fifth year in a row you continue to abuse. What was lacking in 2007? The coalition worked. There was an increase in the economy of 9 percent. The adventurous way was to hold parliamentary elections for the term. They destroyed stability in the country. All right, you've done it. Once again you were given the opportunity in 2008 to show the whole state what you're capable of. You've got an economic growth rate of about 8 percent. How did 2008 end? The economy fell to 2 percent. What did we see in 2008? We saw what happened in 2005. One to the other is the revaluation of the bracelet, robbed the exporters. It was 2005 -- it was in the spring of 2008. But in 2008, the whole country was robbed twice. First, the bracelet was lowered and then devaluation was done almost twice. And the income of all citizens fell twice. I'm not going to burden you with numbers. Many examples have cited what is being done in other lands. Please tell us why we do not, and why do we point our finger at other countries? What are we missing? And I'll tell you: there's not enough responsibility. This is the main factor that a high - ranking citizen should have. What have we seen all of 2008? A fight between the President and the Prime Minister. Are they done? It's not over. It's a shame to the whole world, but it's a fact. Can you please tell us that we believe that something will go further than this power? Of course, nothing will happen. There is no hope that the situation will improve. We know that. We see how recent efforts have been to point the finger at those who are to blame. The president points to the government, the government to the president, to the local authorities, whoever they are, but they don't see themselves. This has already become, as they say, an absurd theater. I've been preparing a performance today, like everyone else, but I'm not gonna use it. I mean, dear Ukrainian people, today we have invited the heads of the district councils. Look where they've been planted, they're local authorities, they say, on a gallery. Why didn't they put them here to look everyone in the face, as they say, as here were suggestions to look into their eyes. So let's see. I'll tell you that to maintain power at all costs and not know what to wait for, we don't know what to wait for, you know, we're going to destroy the country, as they say, to ruin. Think about it, dear colleagues, think about it. We still have a year before the election, although today we have a lot to talk about ratings and so forth. I want to tell you, we need to think about how to live today and tomorrow. And we know very well with you, because we communicate with you all the time, that without a change of power, without a change in the Constitution, we will not be able to stabilize the political situation. And until there comes a responsible team that will be trusted by the Ukrainian people, who are tired of being fooled by politicians, will not be at peace in our country. So we raised this question so that we could look into the situation in this room. And what I'm saying is that the solution to this situation is to change both the President and the government, the Parliament. There must be parliamentary and presidential elections for the term. And when they do, I'll tell you that, when people take us out of this room with you. If we want to see this happen, we can wait. And if we don't want to.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u205	Give us a chance to continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u206	together and we'll figure it out when we do it, soon.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u207	Dear, distinguished national MPs! Factions finished speaking. Now we have speeches by national MPs who are obviously called upon to tell the truth directly from the people. I'm asking you, Your Honor, to sign up for the speech. Half an hour. There is a record of the national deputies for the performance. Yes, on the board, please. People's Deputy Korge, Timoshenko Street. Victor Terrence, please have the right to speak with a colleague of Corge. Next is Yuri Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u208	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko Street. Dear colleagues, today’s discussion has once again convinced us of the legacy of government left by those who promised us a better life in elections immediately and immediately. And we've also found that when the global crisis strikes, and the captain of a state ship panics and sends signals to its own SOS, let's say, a lighthouse bearing made in “RosUkrEnergo”, the government is working dynamically today. And when the leader of the Party of Regions is calling to sit down and accusing Julia Volodymyrna of missing her, she's working right now, and she's not in the hall because she's negotiating with representatives of the International Monetary Fund. But I will not have the senseless accusation of the government and the Prime Minister. Julia Timoshenko was even accused of preparing for the most expensive, precious life of the country’s chief plumber. She was preparing a car accident or, worse yet, a plane crash. It is all so absurd that when one Victor, the one Fedorovich, accuses a government that suddenly developed an ozone hole, say, somewhere over Tibet, another one of his own, just now Andriyovich, will unanimously blame Julia Volodymyrovna for the ozone hole that appeared over the historic Armour. And that's why professional discussions in this room are of no interest to the Party of Regions. It's a dirty policy. Still. As far as politics is concerned, let us, indeed, isolate the political elements of this permanent antigovernment rebellion, its causes. First. The politically bankrupt president has not lost hope of testing people's patience and going back to the polls, so he continues his historic struggle with Julia Timoshenko. The other one. The President is now relying on the Party of Regions and the “One Center”. They're destroying the country together. Third. Parliament should be the next target for the President and the Party of Regions after the government. By creating a new majority, they will do their utmost to disband parliament and throw the country into the chaos of the new elections. And we've already heard that in direct text from the head of the Party of Regions today. Yet both the President and the Party of Regions are strikingly similar in another way: they lose all the time. They lose all the time for anything they can't take. The same will be true today. And I am deeply convinced. That Parliament today will make a wise decision that Parliament will not give in to the provocation of those who, as Bulgakov wrote, have a breakdown in the head with ozone holes in their heads. I want to express my confidence that the mountain will take on the understanding that, above all, Ukraine, that the state is above all, even as it is not difficult to understand the two Victors, but the state is above even the presidential election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u209	People's MP Skuddar's right to speak is passed on by Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u210	I represent the Donbassa Engineering Centre, the town of Kramatorsk, which, like all industrial cities, is in a very difficult economic situation. Unemployment in the city doubled, wages in January also doubled, individual enterprises did not even include heat for the winter, some units worked three to four days a week for 4 to 6 hours, and the average wage fell by 30 to more than 30 per cent. All enterprises have large surpluses of finished products, but unfortunately there are no real consumers who would be able to pay for this product. Already in December, industrial production in the country dropped to 26 per cent. I would like to draw the attention of the members of the Government who are here, that you have written a lie on your schedule. And whoever drew these graphs, let's see, there's no 3% growth in December, there's a 26% decrease. Moreover, in January and now in February, there is no recovery. We've entered a systemic, long crisis. All problems cannot be attributed solely to the global financial crisis. First of all, it is necessary to address its own mistakes in the management of the State, which are linked to incompetence and irresponsibility. Since 2005, we have consistently had a negative balance of payments. Julia Vladimirovna said she was 17. You look at the information that you have, that's the truest lie. In 2003, 2004 we had a positive trade balance, and since 2005, when orange power has come to government, we have a negative balance. What is a negative balance? It's life at the expense of others, it's pay for work in foreign countries, in foreign cities. Last year, the negative balance was 17.6 billion. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I didn't mean to hurt you. People, how many hundreds of thousands of jobs do we pay for free government in other countries? Mrs. Timoshenko has repeatedly stated that our industry is no different from European industry, and our wages should also be European. Such a statement is either incompetence or provocation. The Prime Minister of the poorest State in Europe should know that productivity in Ukraine is 5-10 times lower than in Europe. And we would welcome an increase in social standards by 35 per cent, not by 35 per cent, twice, three times, only to be confirmed by goods, production. And industrial production only increased by three per cent last year. You and this year have just heard that wages will increase by 18 per cent in 2009.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u211	Let me finish. Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u212	a GDP growth of only 0.4 per cent. I want to ask you, gentlemen, you lied in 2008, understood the salary, then doubled the prices. What are you going to do this year? I'm here to raise my salary and raise it. People live in poverty, but let's raise industrial production. Where are your suggestions? Where are your ideas? What did you do to make the industry grow?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u213	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u214	I'm done. One more minute, I don't go out that often. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard very recently that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has been very pleased that we have broken our relationship with Russia. We're losing the Russian market! They don't want to talk to us. Today, Ukraine has become an enemy to Russia! Only 29 per cent of Russians today don't think we're enemies, everyone else has a completely different opinion. What are we doing? Is this the Minister for Foreign Affairs?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u215	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u216	Who says so?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u217	Thank you. Time's up. Please, People's Deputies of the Olympics. Well, I'm sorry, time's up. The national deputy Oliynik is speaking in place of his colleague, Vetwicki. The faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko. Soboljev will continue to perform instead of Shiskina.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u218	Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished national MPs, respected members of the government! Today we have heard a report from the government, and in fact it is a report on the country’s life in the past period. Yulia Timoshenko's government has been working a little over a year. It may be difficult to build a building in a year, and it may be even more difficult to rebuild a ruined economy, a political and legal system. Last year, too, he was extremely uncomplicated, full of challenges, for challenges that neither country nor the world had known for decades. It is true that people are not always interested in what problems the government faces. People place their full responsibility for their lives on the leader of the country. Timoshenko’s year of work has clearly shown that there is a leader in the country — a leader who has accepted full responsibility and who leads the country forward despite all opposition and provocation. This leader is Julia Timoshenko. That is why we, the representatives of her team, cannot allow ourselves to spend time analyzing and criticizing the activities of our opponents -- we must be responsible for our actions, because it is our actions -- the actions of the government and the parliamentary coalition -- that is the direction of the development of the state. And that's the only thing that interests people today. Large-scale political opposition, the global financial crisis are the problems facing the country and its government. But every problem facing the community, before society, before its leader, is in fact sometimes good because it binds us to victory, which means that we are stronger. I would like to thank the President of Ukraine for making Timoshenko's team stronger. I would also like to thank the Party of Regions, which has already done even the impossible in its struggle with Timoshenko — joined with President Yushchenk — which has finally recognized the undeniable leadership of this, outwardly, little woman. Julius Volodymyrni, on behalf of the people of Dnipropetrovština, the inhabitants of Sinellnik, Pokrovsky and Meživsky Districts, I want to say that the ability to recognize and analyse our own mistakes is even stronger. People understand that because it is not only someone who does nothing. So the first step after this report has been completed must be the staff rotation of ministers who fail to implement the government and coalition program and who do not view the public service as a service to the people. From myself and from my colleagues in faction, I want to ask Julius for the Volodymyr forces and wisdom that are so essential to the leader who leads others forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u219	Sergey Soboljev’s faction “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko” will be followed by Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u220	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! We're a unique country at all. I'd like to remind you what we finished in the fall of the previous year. It's broken by the President most of the time, it's abandoned Parliament's leadership, it's a country that's facing the risk of not adopting the budget, it's actually on the verge of breaking all the gas agreements. It's all prepared for one thing: Parliament is not needed, government is retired, country is driven within de-holta! But it didn't! The Rosukreneergese part of the Party of Regions and the President's secretariat were unable to carry out the operation at the time. The budget was an incredible effort. Agreements have been signed with the Russian Federation, which allow us to ignore the names of presidents or prime ministers, at least ten years in advance. And what kind of reaction do we hear from the faction of the Party of Regions? They condemn these contracts, which were signed by the Prime Minister of the Russian Federation and the Prime Minister of Ukraine, because you can see that these contracts are being thrown out of the gas market by the key sponsor of the party Rossukre Energo! But it is not possible to prove to the state that the interests of one financial and business structure will govern not just a hundred people in Parliament, but the whole state. That is why we are actually facing a choice today, and that choice is obvious. Why is Mr. Janukovic more frequent in the Bank’s Opposition Head than everyone else? Why he meets with the President more often than the Prime Minister. Answer one: There is another attempt to do everything possible to send the government to retirement. That's why, today's moment is not just a moment of vote to support or not to support the government, in fact, this is the moment to answer the key question -- the country will continue to develop under the scenarios of dirty gas schemes or the country will eventually, in the face of the world's most severe economic crisis, bring together a healthy part of all the factions of Parliament in order to really overcome this crisis. That's why, for us, there's no questions, there's going to be a moment of truth today. The fact that the smell of “Rosukre Energo” in this room is already saturated is understood by everyone, but if the money “Rosukre Energo” wins, we will get the answer in half an hour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u221	Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of Our Ukraine, next will be by Inna Bogoslovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u222	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine” MP. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, I may say some uncomfortable things, but I will say what is our position, frankly. For us and Block Timoshenko, and the Party of Regions, these are the same in essence, by form and by content of political power, this is the first and main thesis for us. It's different. We are not going to make a choice for Timoshenko or for Yanukovich. Our choice is for Ukraine and for Ukraine. Third. We know that both Timoshenko and Yanukovic are the only ones in their desire to further shake Ukraine, the welfare of citizens, and the Ukrainian authorities. They all come together in one, in hatred of the real Ukrainian politics of the President and the officials. They say, impeachment, they don't touch each other, impeachment. A party of regions says impeachment and they all talk about stability together. Respectful colleagues who can be stabilized when all of them take comfort from the outside forces who laugh and wipe their hands. Third. We need honest politics, everything. And whoever implements it will be right for Ukraine. So above all, the government should not be teaching to separate from the rostrum, but to give the country an honest budget, not to say that the people who are signaling in the cars there are a bunch of reddish ones, no, then the real people and those in other cities that are now out in the area, are real people and they say that life is getting worse and our economy is, unfortunately, falling, and as long as the bottom is not visible, it's a reality that the government has to admit and everyone has to admit in order to get out of the crisis together. So if the government had listened at all to those MPs who were not personally impressed by the Prime Minister's charm, obviously the Prime Minister would not have debated, but rather: First. She stopped fighting entrepreneurs because they're making real GDP and jobs that are on the street right now. [[Applause]] The other one. She stopped fighting local self - government, for it is a real power that, regardless of anything, responds to the people who chose her. And the third. I'd start fighting unemployment, not watching the employment fund advertise itself on all TV channels, and 200 thousand extra unemployed people don't know where to work. At least these three things the government would have done and I would have believed maybe 5 percent of what I was talking about today from Timoshenko's rostrum. And finally. One ancient thinker said that there is such a thing to fight frogs with mice, it's called -- it's a parody on the ancient Greek epoch. [[Batrachomiomachya]] So in this batrachemy, we do not gather together, our thoughts and our hearts, not with Timoshenko and not with Yanukovic, but with those who protest in the street.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u223	Another Bogoslovak, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u224	Dear Ukraine, there was so much emotion here today, I hope that the men here are still in the hall, or should I scream as the Prime Minister shouted in hysteria, don't I? So, the honourable Ukraine, sadly, we have heard from our reply today and from the Prime Minister’s statement that we are even worse off than we expected. The Prime Minister’s speech reveals three obvious things. First. The government doesn't have a crisis program at all. The other one. The only thing that this government can do is borrow money on the side, and once again, their spending is known for what it is in the country. Because what we're told today is that we're going to borrow again is just crazy because the UN experts have identified Ukraine as the first country in the world that is closest to the default. The third thing we've heard today is whether, in fact, Timoshenko doesn't even know what's going on in the country or if she's lying. Because to go down to call the rusted people who actually go out on the street because they're out of work because they have no hope of getting the loans back because they're buying food today that's 10 times higher than they were a year ago. That's how we treat our own people -- that means that today's government has even gotten rid of what it came to be -- calls for democracy and the peoples of government. Just like they forgot what the economy is, because now even the economists are going to look at what numbers were showing us on the screen. In general, the things that cannot be matched today were combined. I think it's just the effect that there's no finance minister in the government. Where there is still a government in the world where there are no finance ministers in crisis, there is no respectable government. And today we are told that the path of this government is the country's path. Oh, my God! You know in the Criminal Code, to which we are confident that our distinguished officials will soon be studying deeply, there is such a definition of “a source of increased danger”, a source of increased danger. Thus, the government today is a source of increased danger to the state. And today we can no longer tolerate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u225	Sergey Ribuk, faction of the Party of the Regions, is invited to the presentation. Next up will be Serbin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u226	Dear national MPs, the information and the very behavior of the government have now once again made it clear that whatever constructive proposition or position you make, they're all like peas against a wall, they're bending theirs, they're grabbing theirs, and they're grabbing theirs. [[B in m in s a l in]] and put what is desired to be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u227	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u228	So what I'm going to say is it's not for the government, but I'm going to tell the people and for our long-suffering agriculture. I'll start with a bitter statement of facts. First. Ukraine. Finally, it was expected that Ukraine had actually entered the stage of a deep and irreversible food crisis. Finally, at the multimillion - dollar table of our people came famine and cold, and people ate the last canned potatoes and canned potatoes. For the first time, Ukraine became imported into most food products. In just one year, the import of animal products has increased, consider 196 percent, and meat has increased by more than 5 times. Exports decreased by 30 percent accordingly. This has finally destroyed both industrial livestock and industrial porking. Two cows a hundred acres [100 ha] left, like two elks a hundred acres [100 ha] of forest in the forest. In a year, not pork, but 39,000 tons of sala. So I'll tell you, on the right, those nationalists who are here right now, I'll tell you, your creative inspiration, Stephen Bandera, has commanded you that everyone has what? Yours in your own way. And now you're eating a foreign fat, you've got what, the "fast Nastya" hasn't attacked after that? Rigit's up here. And I'd like to ask. The other one. The worst part is that the government doesn't make any conclusions. With the blanket covered, the livestock industry reduced its funding by 7.5 times, and the loans by 5 times. And today, of course, more than 50 million grains were given priority, not even to peasants, but to 7 percent of the oligarchs who received 75 percent of the budget last year. And five million peasants didn't get a penny. So there is no agrarian politics in the state. That policy, which was formed 17 years ago, was deadened and inappropriate. Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u229	Dear colleagues, let me finish, let me speak, 20 seconds, all of it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u230	He says, come on, we're ready, we're ready. And there are suggestions, so that the working group can sit together, work out new, new principles of agrarian politics and do them if we really want the welfare of our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u231	Thank you. Yuri Serbin, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Prepare Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u232	Dear colleagues, we are a very interesting country. I want to quote Sobolev's colleague. We're kind of talking about government. In a calm economic environment, it goes peacefully in all countries, and we have only a fall. What are we playing at? You know the crisis. And for example, I don't want to go back to politics, but I still want to thank the government and the Prime Minister for personally leading this anti-crisis group, which needs to get the builders out of the crisis. And not only builders, but also the industry of construction materials, including metallurgy. You know that metallurgy has started to rise a little bit, but there's no demand for metal in the internal market, because we're really in a deep crisis and we have to do the construction. At the end of the year, you and I adopted an anti-crisis law. Now there are concrete measures that they are working on. I don't want to name names. Well, here I was being approached by a representative of the opposition and he said we were ready to work. I'm grateful to those who are really working on this anti-crisis committee right now. First. There's already the first billion. I want people to know. And in 10 days, he's going to go to the mortgage lending of our residents, our citizens, to prevent new elite centers. Now they're capitalizing two savings banks. It's going to go on mortgage lending, and it's going to go on loan to builders, because we have to give our people housing. Such decisions have been taken. There's been a mortgage on our anti-crisis committee. A working decision, and I think this is what we're going to do on Friday, it's going to get support and it's going to be adopted by the government on the use of the stability fund. Everything is done to get us to work. In order for the industry that is connected to us to work. What are they offering us? I realize you don't have to talk to anyone right now, it's still a hopeless thing. You'll vote. But what do you suggest? You propose to change this government or to make it a task for the executives to make the difficulties that the government is facing so that they can become higher. I'm just giving an example. The government is struggling, the decision is made to make a real price for housing. But in order to make a living, it takes a normal course, because we've already taken off the prices and the brick industry, and we've cut prices on metal, and prices are rising on the table. We have compendiums abroad, raw materials from abroad. And as long as we don't talk until the National Bank does, that's not gonna be the point. I'm calling one of the heads of the National Bank yesterday because I'm being approached by builders.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u233	Allow the last phrase.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u234	And I'm saying let's think about it, you have the cost of refinancing. I'm not going to call those three banks I was looking for. And he says you're on your own. So if this is the position of such a National Bank, will we get out of the crisis? It's not going to be that much without consolidation, think about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u235	Thank you. Volodymyr Bondarenko, the “Julia Timoshenko Block” is invited to the presentation. Prepare National Deputy Korja from the faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u236	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear friends, if we look back for a while, we will see when this authority, when it is now at work and working, has taken on matters in the authority that is actively critical of it today. Perhaps Grandpa Freud was a brilliant man, for one of the previous speakers correctly said that what was not stolen could be stolen. There's not much left to steal. I could even say, in the aviation industry, they're billions of losses, billions of debts that Godfathers and relatives of today's opposition leader have done, they're broken factories and a whole industry that once had 90,000 people in their businesses. I'd like to say that things like this were made in Mintrans. Unfortunately, criminal cases all disappear into the sand because your prosecutor, you say, is in charge of criminal investigation today. Your country’s Security Service, along with Balogya, is monitoring who knows what, but not that there is order in the country. I mean, there really isn't much left to steal. So this government is trying to multiply what's left over, make the economy of Ukraine work, and you're actively obstructing. Well, that's your role today. You want to go back and steal. I want to pay attention to one sector: the gas industry. Tell me, who in all these years has not succeeded in getting gas and oil in the fields in Libya, for example, in the Arab Republic of Egypt, or in Nigeria, where we were offered, or Venezuela? Nobody. It's not convenient for Gazprom, who, today, actively sent his wing here in the form of a few businessmen who are actively working in the Party of Regions that created RossUkre Energo, the most corrupt structure in the world. I want to say that there is no actual gas conversion in Ukraine today because 72 billion, as it continues, have continued to be in Ukraine. All of Europe has already gone to solid fuel locally, to oil, to coal, and we consume gas. Let me give you an interesting example. Today, the sum of the buildings have been converted to gas in their apartments by whole microregions of high - altitude buildings. Why is this being done? In order to prevent the use of oil and coal in boilers, the gas loop should be stretched on Ukraine’s neck forever. Having benefited from this loop, with the task of preserving gas supplies as much as possible in Ukraine, they have led the matter to the point that today the issue has to be resolved in an emergency orderly manner. Unless in all these years, when you, the venerable opposition today, were largely in power, you couldn't do that. Could it not have been possible to repair the use of methane gas on Donetsk? You've been in there for 20 years. Why? Is that where the world's largest stockpile of methane is? Why do you lead the state to a chasm? This is a question that you will need to answer to people and God.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u237	Honorable colleagues, instead of the national deputy Korja, have the word of Akimov. Last performance. No, no, it's already from the Party of Regions, you've already entered, you've already had it. Party of regions, Corge, so please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u238	Dear colleagues, distinguished deputies! Today, the key phrase was given by the distinguished Yulia Vladimirovna: “The government and the Prime Minister are holding their hand on the pulse.” They really hold their hand on the pulse of the economy, but unfortunately only to determine exactly when it will die. [[Applause]] There have been a lot of emotions in the room today, but unfortunately, the economy is not operating with emotion, the people are not fed with emotion, the economy is operating with numbers, and the figures indicate that the economy of Ukraine was brought to a catastrophic situation in a year. Our national product, gross product dropped 2.6 times this year. Inflation has doubled. Of course, today's distinguished Prime Minister has tried to convince us that the financial crisis is the sole responsibility of the world. But the facts speak of another, the facts say that the crisis has hit all European countries. But among the CIS and European countries, Ukraine looks the worst. We have 11 times as much inflation. We have almost twice the GDP growth rate for 2008. The industry has dropped by three per cent, and in CIS countries, on average, it has increased by four per cent. These are new job losses. And now there is no question for those who have lost their jobs, who are to blame, whether for the global crisis or for the government. It is clear to them that the problems in our power today are clear to them. Business is suffering a lot right now. The Government had promised him much in the memorandums, but unfortunately nothing but an increase in VAT debt. In addition, the Government is constantly trying to shift all responsibility to business. Question: How will jobs be maintained, and who will keep them? In 2008, we had a deteriorating balance of payments situation, a critical trade balance situation. Only the absence of a Minister of Finance can justify the fact that the Government does not know that the course depends on the Government's decisions, on the level of inflation, on the balance of payments for which the Government is responsible. The outlook for 2009 is, unfortunately, very bleak. 0.4 percent growth is a fiction, it's a soap bubble. We're really looking at a negative 5 percent drop in GDP, and we're looking at 13 percent of unemployment. Who will be responsible for this? But most importantly, the Government has not only introduced the country into the economic crisis – we now have a total crisis of mistrust in the country. The Government does not believe in business, nobody believes in the financial sector, the population does not believe in the Government: 85 per cent sees it as a failure — and no one believes Ukraine. I have a question, like a government nobody believes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u239	Let me finish, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u240	Even if there was an anti-crisis programme that was not, how could a government that no one believed handle the crisis? Now the slogans are coming together. Only the political power they believe can be united. Therefore, the only conclusion is that the Government must resign, we need a new team of professionals to whom our population will believe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u241	Ladies and gentlemen, the speeches from the MP's corps have been completed. Now, as we agreed, the word has the head of the Luhansk district council of Valery Mikolaiovich Golenko. Please. Then there will be a speech by Shaposhennik Viačeslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u242	[[Applause]] Dear People's Deputies, I sincerely hope that you will hear what people living in the far east of Ukraine are thinking. Everyone understands now, and of course, sorry, but the best times have passed. The same crisis that the government didn't see just three months ago and that innocent cocktail promised not to open the door, it came and didn't knock on our door, it just knocked them out. Here are some Luganic examples. Industrial production in the region, which was the third largest contributor to national GDP, has already been reduced by 25 per cent. What's next? It's best not to talk about pessimistic prognosis. Optimistic yields a further 15 per cent reduction, with only half of the steel industry remaining from chemistry and petroleum, and only two thirds of the coal industry. This is from today's level, not from the figures that were in 2004 or 2007 with the Government of Januković. Here are some examples: North London's Nitrogen has reduced production by more than 2.5 times. The leaders of a giant such as Lugansk Heat are happy to see the prospect of 80 per cent of the programme last year, and they are happy to have a three-day working week. But the team has been able to keep it, and vacations are still under way. Many experts say that the fallout of the entire industry can take place as a result of February. Working capitals will disappear completely. I believe that today we have only one way of resisting the crisis: this is an immediate change in our relationship with Russia, we need a joint anti-crisis programme. Sovereignty by sovereignty, but paying for nationalist nonsense by seven times the price of gas will be fat. You have to respect yourself, but no one's gonna call you smart if you lose a huge market solely because of ambition, sorry, pontoons. At least in Odessa they're making sure they're worth more money, but not as much. Europe will not help us or buy our goods. If there's a reliable trading partner, it's Russia. But I'm going back to the regional economy. Delays in wages, decreases in wages, that's what we all have, and that's what we have. There is a fear that we will soon be unable to pay our pensions in time. From where? If there's an army of unemployed people growing every week. By 1 October, four people had been claimed for one job vacancy in the district service, and today, 16 people were already in employment. In the past two months alone, almost 20,000 people have lost their jobs in official reporting. But it's just obvious unemployment. We have people who are proud and who work on the labour market. Granted, there is little belief in the support of the State. In the town of Stahanov, after the dismissal of 3,000 people from one car factory alone, there were only 600 people on the stock exchange. But don't doubt it, the charge of social hatred is nowhere; it is here in Ukraine, in the region, in the same Stahanov, in the city, in the sad passing of circumstances, the only person in the world who bears the name of a working man. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if our gas has been stolen from the Russians, but I know exactly what our country is doing, abruptly and cynically, to rob its citizens. And separately, when played with deposits in banks and exchange rates, and collectively, when the funds of enterprises are openly sealed. The non-reimbursement of VAT to exporting enterprises has reached over 600 million bracelets in the area. As a result, the Interstop plant in the town of Sverdlovsk has been running for four months. On the verge of a complete stop, a Ferro-Float factory in the same Stahanov. And this is 1,700 metalsmiths. And how many families will the Kiev officials who view the whole region as profit fissures? It's about the budget. Who said it would be possible for 65 per cent of the regions to take money to Kiev and only 35 to leave it on the ground? It was bad, but it's never been bad before. This situation could soon lead to the destruction of the network of budgetary institutions on the ground. I understand that all of my colleagues in the areas have the same “fears” in their pockets, the same reality of life everywhere, no matter what political colour the area is: orange or blue and white.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u243	Let me finish. Please, 30 seconds. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u244	And I think the attitude towards the policy of the highest power is the same. However, the sound of "sufficient" and "sufficient" is increasing. If someone on the capital hills is not heard yet, and we are convinced today that there is no emphasis, we hear it more and more on the ground and more and more. In such a situation, someone may be tempted to cover up his miscalculations and actions at the expense of local authorities, and the trials have already occurred. The fact that the governors are guilty of rising inflation is that the tariffs on JCCs, more than 80 per cent of which are regulated by Kabmin, are not duly raised by local councils. Honestly, don't get your hopes up. "Transfer arrows" won't work! People won't allow it! Everyone must be responsible for their own and in every sense responsible!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u245	Thank you. You're invited to the presentation. I'm asking you to calm down! Please calm down! [[Applause]] The speaker is invited to address the chairman of the Suma District Council, Shaposnik Viacheslav Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u246	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished people's deputies, members of the Cabinet of Ministers, colleagues from our areas! I thank you for inviting representatives of local self-government to discuss this issue in the country. I wonder why we were invited today. What do they expect from my speech? Hulas, or praise each other? But I'm asking myself another question that's more important, and I want to ask you what they want to ask the citizens of the Covetina in your Supreme Council. Respectable people, no matter what language I speak, if you want to listen, listen. Okay. As in the Supreme Council, we have a similar political structure on the ground. Although we all have different political strengths, we work together and work together to achieve a common goal. As a result, we have a complex but balanced regional budget. We are filling all budgets, as was the case in 2008 and January of this year. In front of us, the Cabinet of Ministers has fully fulfilled all its obligations both in the eighth year and in January. We have no debt to the Pension Fund. All students received pensions, as did teachers and doctors, the social sphere. There was a question here.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u247	Dear colleagues, we agreed, and you asked that there be a speech of two heads of district councils. Let's hear it. If we come to the district council and we're going to have this obstruction, are we going to like it or not? Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u248	I am addressing the People's Deputies of the Party of the Regions, which are present here, distinguished colleagues, if I may, I will call you that, you know, in the Sumo area of your party we have eight representatives and in the sixth year in order to have an understanding in our regional parliament, we have given one of the key wealth commissions, namely your faction. With eight of the ninety deputies in your district council. I'm addressing you today, and I'm asking you today, what an example of how we can work at the regional level, we show and show. There have been examples here today with the same independent evaluation. For the first time on the Amount, we have allocated a hundred and sixty thousand bracelets to carry out an independent evaluation of this in the checklist, and we have proved to be one of the best in carrying out this problem. And at the end of our independent evaluation, we all realized that we did the right thing, that's an example of work. I repeat to everyone, Suma Region, no matter how much I am prevented from speaking today, it will work and work, and it will work, and it shows an example, by the way, of many of the people's deputies present here. I would like to conclude by saying that today, the Cabinet of Ministers, this is a pledge, the only guarantee of survival, and there may be greater stability in the situation that has arisen today, obviously for all of us, and you are very, very well-respected gentlemen from the Party of Regions, who wanted to prevent me from speaking today, but you understand very well that you do not need these elections. Dear colleagues, I call upon you all to change the relations of the practical battalion, to change relations with the political battalions, to think about people and to give them hope, and to allow the Cabinet of Ministers today to work under the conditions that we have today in the country, that you are speaking today is one thing, please, in our regions, and you will learn the real situation and the real picture in our areas. We'll help you to make things right in this situation. [[Applause]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m0.u249	Dear national deputies, speeches and discussions are over. Allow me to sum up a few sentences as a result of the discussion. Dear colleagues, we have had, in principle, an emotional conversation that confirmed one thing that we have in the country a fierce struggle for power at the expense of Ukraine, more precisely, on account of what remains of the country. In the last days after the decision on the island of Snakes came, such a term “dragon compromise ” appeared. It's quite obvious that today in the session room there was an attempt to find this snake compromise, because in Ukraine the general economic and political crisis has turned into a crisis of statehood, and here we've been talking about that we have a crisis of trust today. If we think that people trust individual politicians, if we think they trust individual institutions of power, it's a big mistake, or it's the result of the work of court analysts who provide relevant information. They are totally disappointed and, above all, because of the disorder that is being created in the state that we are trying to move into the session room. Because we have an unrestrained desire to destroy what apparently supports the country on the surface and does not allow the country to be pushed into a chasm. I mean the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Who needs the war of destruction among the politicians that was demonstrated today in the session hall? Because today, the debate on the socio-economic situation in the country and the crisis response measures have been called a mutual accusation. Well, in this war, the people are defeated. We understand that very well. There is a desire for a strong hand now. Because the economic collapse is causing the democratic conquests that they were to be suppressed. That's clear. And today we have felt that there are desires in difficult circumstances acceptable and very simple, I would say simplification, all the way to primitive decision, instead of making our common position. And one more thing. For those who hope, it will be possible to drag the people we call to the street to their side. I'm going to remind you of a historical example that's short but vivid. When Danton was taken to prison during the revolutionary events, as he drove by Robespierre’s house, he said, “Robespierre, I am waiting for you.” Robespierre, you know what they did to him without a trial. So let us be calm and balanced. Think about what's on the way out and tomorrow's on the way out. Dear colleagues, we obviously had to admit that the systematic coordinated and timely actions of all authorities, I emphasize, all of us, and we've been trying today and we've been planning to consider the actions of all authorities. You and I have seen today that district councils, district administrations and territories are divided. And it's going to be very difficult to compromise. Each one stands for his own truth. We obviously have to acknowledge the need for joint work by the President, i.e. representatives of the President, the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers, and, I would stress, the local authorities of the System Plan of Action with a clear definition of the sequence of these actions. This should be a state-wide foundation and activity of the authorities in overcoming the crisis. Have we made our approaches public today? No, it's not. We must obviously consider it a key task of the Supreme Council: to immediately create a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council to work on the basic principles of internal and external policy. [[I want to say and offer]] We should offer the Cabinet of Ministers by 15 February, for example, a system package of bills on what we should consider and accept in order to take logical and consistent steps to warn, prevent and overcome the great trouble that has already entered the Ukrainian home. It is quite obvious that today there is much talk about the need for budget adoption, more specifically budget changes. That's what the President says, the government understands, the Supreme Council. So let's make this decision: to invite the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to introduce a coherent draft of the Law on Change to the State Budget. And the Supreme Council of Ukraine has this project to work together, I emphasize, with local self-government authorities, so that we can adopt a consolidated document. Dear colleagues, in order not to talk about whether the Supreme Council's decision is not being implemented, we obviously need to make another decision so that the committees will immediately work on all the bills that deal with the crisis, not the way we require them to be considered, and then they will be recalled in the session room. Including, I want to say, this is done by factions that would have to work more actively and more responsibly from the point of view of government support. We obviously need to introduce a monthly review into Parliament's control of the state of affairs in the relevant spheres of the state's activity. And this should be suggested by the committees so that we and the ministers here can talk about what's going on to calm people down. We obviously need to make a decision to carry out an analysis of the status of the authorities carrying out the tasks of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the form of laws and regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Right now, people are shouting, including at the National Bank, when I was walking, like you, colleagues, to pay tribute to the memory of Paul the Great. But we make decisions, we don't prove them to the end. And they're right. When a young woman says that I have money in the Kiev bank that she has to take care of her child, she can't take a penny of that money. So we should probably not compete here who takes the stand, but make one decision. And it is clear that we need to analyse and generalize the implementation of the decisions already made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to deal with the crisis. We should probably show work. And one more thing. There is such an offer. For us to also hear reports during the February-June months at the plenary meetings of officials elected by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, appoints or agrees to serve, except for judges. So we're obviously going to have to come up with a plan of action. And I'd like to ask your colleagues, apart from the draft decision on the lack of confidence in the Cabinet of Ministers, to consider these proposals that are presented in the relevant draft Ukrainian decrees. They are not political. But there is something behind the discussion to come to an acceptable decision. Thank you, dear colleagues. Now let's talk about it. I'm just asking you not to run around blocking the rostrum. Because if we don't have an agreed decision, we, you know, won't make any other decisions. You and I have been in the process of long-standing debates, discussions have come, compromises. And I am grateful that the leaders of the political forces have supported this compromise. Because I'll be honest with you, dear colleagues, we're holding a meeting of the Conciliation Council, everyone comes with a clear set and we often hold a conciliatory council for the form to take place. So we obviously need to have wider contacts here to find, not a snake, but just a human political compromise. Because that's how we've been sitting for five hours, six hours, and there's no movement. So we've made a proposal and a compromise, and I'm very grateful to everyone that we have an appropriate timetable. And it was voted in favour that the deputies, as required by the Rules, by the way, would register at the registration tables. [[398 votes]] And before we make a decision, we'll have a proper registration so that everyone can make a conscious and responsible decision. It's not easy. Just a minute. After him, we have to give an answer, and what happens next. And we all obviously think we're going to move on. So let's do it this way right now. Let's call it a half-hour break. Listen. Dear colleagues, listen to me. Because there's going to be a war. I don't want us to have a war on the Supreme Council of Ukraine. During the time, respected colleagues, 398 national deputies voted. If you want, I'll put it to a vote, cancel the decision. I can't cancel it on my own. Let's take a break for half an hour. During the break, I'm asking MPs, because I understand that there is now a conscious blocking to register at the tables. There's data. Half registered at tables, half not registered, but present in the hall. So I have this proposal, my dear fellows, let's take a break for half an hour. I ask all members of the People's Committee to register in writing at the registration desks, and I ask the Counting Commission and the members of the Counting Commission to make sure there are no charges. And during this break, let's get together and talk about how we're going to make decisions. I think it's a normal compromise offer. So I'm asking the faction leaders to meet in the office of the Chief of the Supreme Council, and please, the decision of the Supreme Council was yesterday, we've made all the decisions. And I ask the National Deputies to register in writing during recess for 30 minutes. An interval of up to 15 hours is announced for 30 minutes. I ask the faction leaders to gather in the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council.
