ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Please prepare for registration. Please include the “Council” system. [[10:01:05]] There are 394 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session is open. Dear colleagues, today we have the birthday of our fellow national deputies: Catherineczuk Mikli Dmitrovich, Lukyanovka Katerina Eugenynowna, and Najdionova Andrija Mihajlovich. Let us welcome them, wishing them good health and success. Information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary on November 18, 2009. Eight issues of the agenda have been discussed, as a result of their consideration: three laws and one decree have been passed, two draft rulings have been rejected, one law has been passed by the President of Ukraine with partial consideration of the President's proposals and the President's veto has been overtaken by one law. Dear colleagues, we have a schedule of meetings for today. Please, are there any suggestions on the procedure of today's work? Please sign in. Grishenko Anatoly Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u2	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! I'm a little surprised that important bills such as the Social and Economic Development Programme next year and the State Budget project are being considered in the absence of government members. I'd like to invite members of the government to the bed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u3	Thank you, Anatoly Stepanovich. I think we're in the capital of Ukraine, not on another planet, and it's clear that these issues were put in order of the day, and the Cabinet of Ministers is informed in full volume that they're starting the discussion right now. And that's their decision. Well, as far as evaluation is concerned, it's already a national MP's right. Cord Vitaly Terentiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u4	Please pass the word to my colleague Oleg Lašk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u5	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, I have a request. On Monday, the Conciliation Council decided that Bill 4707 — the President's proposals for a bill to amend the budget — would be considered immediately after the 2010 draft budget and would be at the very end.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u6	What's the number?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u7	4707. I therefore request that we put it in line with the Conciliation Council's decision after considering the draft budget for 2010. And at the end of the day, it's after 5238 -- it's a change to the budget for the financing of justice. It's a very tight schedule, and I think we should move it too, because the courts are closing down. The issue of financing justice needs to be addressed urgently. And I think it would be logical to look at the 2009 budget after the 2010 budget. Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u8	Thanks for the offer. I just want to make it clear that your reference to the Conciliation Board decision was unnecessary because there was no such decision. We're going to settle this in the session room right now. Moisik Volodymyr Romanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u9	Vladimir Moisik, MP “For Ukraine!” Please pass the word to a colleague of Carpuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u10	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” I would also like to point out that, in the presentation of the budget that took place in September of this year, as is the case with the current budget, both the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister and the heads of ministries, because many important issues are being addressed, many proposals are being considered, but that this budget is based on a non-existent budget code, a non-legal field, is unrealistic macroeconomic indicators, there is analysis by deputies, there are parliamentary groups, and it is very unfortunate that the government's leadership is ignoring this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u11	National MP Trofimenko, please. The national deputy Trofimenko changed his mind to make a proposal. Dear colleagues, there have been two proposals for today’s plenary session. The National MP Lazko suggests that we review the previous decision, and after considering two issues about the Social and Economic Development Programme and the conclusions of the 2010 Budget Committee on the State Budget project, two issues are discussed: the change to the State budget for Ukraine for the current year. [[Registration numbers 4707 and 5238]] Dear colleagues, I'm putting it to a vote. On a review of the conclusions of the Budget Committee on the 2010 National Budget project of Ukraine to consider two draft laws amending the State Budget this year. [[4707 and 5238]] I'd like to make a statement. [[10:07:53]] For-195 The offer is not supported. Out of procedure, please, National Deputy Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u12	Oleg Lazko. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, well, we had a different deal with you. I'm sorry you don't keep your word. We made a deal with you yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u13	Turn off the microphone, please. The microphone will be turned off, please. Dear Ukrainian national deputies, I want everyone to know and understand that I'm with no one and I'm not making any deals. I only promise to do the will of the Supreme Council and the Rules that we work for. So the proposal of the National Deputy, the hazelnut he makes, I know for a fact that it should be considered by the deputies and they make a decision. So please, the decision of the Supreme Council will be – we will consider, we will not – we will not. [[B in m in s a l in]] The draft Law on the State Economic and Social Development Programme of Ukraine for 2010 is being announced for consideration. Registration number 5140. The First Deputy Minister of Economy, Maksut Anatoly Arkadyovich, reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to introduce you to the 2010 project of the State Economic and Social Development Programme of Ukraine. In my speech, I would like to briefly pause to assess the economic situation, the main priorities of economic policy for the following year.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u15	Anatoly Arkadyovich, please wait a minute. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u16	Dear National Deputies! Allow me to introduce you to the 2010 project of the State Economic and Social Development Programme of Ukraine. In my speech, I would like to take a brief look at the economic situation, the main priorities of economic policy next year, and their alignment with the state budget. After a severe adjustment to external shocks at the end of the past and early years, when destructive processes were observed in Ukraine: production collapse, devaluation of national currency, and a loss of confidence in the banking system. Since the beginning of the second quarter, we have indicators that allow us to talk about the gradual stability of the economic situation in the country. According to the third quarter, Ukraine has joined a group of countries whose depth is declining with each quarter. If the sum of the first quarter to the corresponding period last year showed a drop of 20.3 percent, then in the third quarter we reduced the drop to 15.9 percent. At the same time, for many countries, only in the third quarter, after worsening the situation, became the beginning of a crisis. In the industrial complex, the conclusions of September-Yellow showed that the most complex period of development of the industrial complex was over. In September and the previous month, industrial production increased by 1.9 percent and in October by 5 percent. Agriculture proved to be an area where, not only did it not fall but it continued to increase its production volume. And even though we're 0.1 in January, but this is an increase to 17 percent, which was last year, this is a sector that continues to grow. Secondly, we have the ability to retain. It is also positive that each month the number of unemployed registered is reduced. If we had 900.6 thousand in January, it was already October 508.4, which is 44 percent less than at the beginning of the year and even below the pre-crisis level. There's a trend in inflation slowing down, we have an increase in consumer prices in January-January by 1.8 less than last year, 10 percent versus 12 percent last year, and an increase in prices in October is the smallest October increase since 2003. With regard to the factors that will affect the recovery of economic growth. First, with the projected dynamics of the world economy, there's no more reason to expect further substantial declines in external demand, secondly, we have the ability to maintain sufficient levels of domestic demand, especially consumer demand. It is supported by fiscal policy, which is geared towards preserving real income in the budget area and the income of low-income groups. Consumer demand is also supported by anticrisis measures related to additional social benefits and compensations. In addition, we expect that along with the restoration of confidence in the banking system, both the increase in personal deposits and the lending of the population will be restored. Thirdly, we have every chance to stop the decline in investment demand. The implementation of investment programmes in infrastructure sectors in the framework of the Euro-2012 preparations is of particular importance, with the largest funding levels falling into the next and 2011 years. In particular, about 40 billion dollars are planned next year for these goals, with more than 60 percent of them being private investors. At the same time, the main complexity of investment demand support is the problem of restoring the creditworthiness of enterprises and the availability of the loan funds needed to implement investment projects. So in the following year, we still have the support of those areas where severe demand declines have caused serious problems, such as highways, machinery, housing, and a number of others. Many businesses in these sectors need serious restructuring. Today, virtually all major countries are trying to determine their place in the post - crisis world. This is certainly a challenge for us too. I believe that Ukraine can not only strengthen its traditional competitive advantages in metallurgical industries, agriculture, but also significantly enhance the role of the innovative high-tech sector. Moreover, Ukraine is obliged to do so. The crisis of GDP has proved to be quite significant. It is estimated at 12 to 14 percent this year. In the coming years, it is necessary to completely recover these losses, and the following year it will be the start of economic recovery. We predict real GDP growth is 3.7 percent. To emphasize, it's not as much about the speed of recovery as it is about the quality of it. And we built the government program next year to focus not only on the task of overcoming crises, but also on identifying new growth points. So I'm going directly to the priorities of the 2010 State Programme. First, the government will pursue policies aimed at maintaining the purchasing power of citizens and ensuring the employment of the population. This is one of the fundamental pillars of politics. The main way to maintain purchasing power is to lower inflation. We set ourselves a goal next year to lower inflation to a definite figure, between 9.5 and 9.7 percent. This is the shortest way not only to save citizens' income, but also to have an affordable bank loan for the real sector. First of all, we are linked to the restoration of the real economy. Since the following year, anti-crisis instruments should be complemented by support for structural distortions in the economy, by stimulating domestic demand and by the development of substitution imports. We're predicting an increase in industrial output of 2.9 percent. Engineering is expected to have a significant impact on industrial dynamics, and production growth is projected to be 5 percent. In line with the 2010 State Programme, direct budgetary support is proposed for a number of projects aimed at structural industrial modernization. First of all, it's about the aviation industry, the defence and industrial complex, and so on. [[on a slide you can see individual programs]] Increasing energy efficiency is certainly a priority. Despite the positive dynamism of the declining energy efficiency of GDP in recent years, they are not yet fully engaged in economic incentives for energy conservation and self-financing. These mechanisms will enable us to further reduce the energy efficiency of GDP. Investment and innovation energy conservation projects are planned to be implemented in the following year from the Stability Fund to provide 500 million dollars. Increasing energy efficiency should also be the most important condition for any form of state support. But more importantly, systems should be involved in creating business-friendly conditions, which is one of the main priorities. First, it is planned to reduce the process of starting a business to 14 days and shorten the list of activities that require licensing. In this direction, it is important for us to ensure simultaneous registration, that is, simplifying our registration. Secondly, we are concerned about the fact that small and medium-sized businesses in crisis are denied access to credit resources, especially investment. We plan to re-establish the small enterprise financial and credit support programme, which is budgeted for at 15 million dollars. As far as foreign economic policy is concerned, Ukraine is already working under the conditions of WTO membership and it is necessary to accelerate the process of further integration, in particular with regard to the development of a free trade zone with the European Union, which foresees the need to harmonise Ukrainian legislation with the European Union. A special value under these conditions is the development of export potential, because with such agreements, we need to stimulate exports. And today, there's a draft Act on State Export Support, which envisions the creation of the necessary guarantee infrastructure, lending to enable us to support our exporters. These measures will allow the next year to predict a 9.5 percent increase in exports of goods and a positive external trade surplus. At the stage of stabilising the global economy, it is necessary to ensure that appropriate tax policies are implemented that would not only allow businesses to be set up, but also encourage them to modernize production, the measures envisaged by the programme. If you don't mind, I'll finish up a little bit.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u17	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u18	The pension reform of the housing sector, particularly housing and utilities, is another important step at hand. In preparing the new program and budget, we gave special attention to this issue. First of all, attention is focused on the availability of housing, the most effective keeping it on tariff policy. Ladies and gentlemen, the crisis that the Ukrainian economy is experiencing today is difficult, but on the other hand, it is an opportunity to start a new phase of reforms, the main objective of which is to achieve higher-level tasks, to introduce an investment and innovation model for the development of the state. Supporting you today in this sessional hall of the state programme would be an important contribution to this process, the process of initiating systemic reforms that will be supported by budgetary policy. So I ask you, honourable national deputies, to support the 2010 draft of the State Economic and Social Development Programme in the first reading and to allow the appropriate committees to work with the Government all the proposals that will be made today, and we will make the program that matches your visions, which corresponds to the will of the people who have chosen you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u19	Thank you, Anatoly Arkadyovich. Please sign up for a question to the reporter. Hell-bent Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u20	Dear rapporteur, in your cheering and fighting speech, you spoke of everything but what to tell. The programme provides for analysis, the programme involves problems, the programme provides for ways to overcome problems. Would you please tell me which country you live in? Whose program are you reporting? You're talking about growth, you're talking about stability. Today, more than ever, people are being destroyed. You don't know that meat production, milk, sausage products -- it all falls to almost a third of them, clothes. The only thing growing in your government is the sale and production of water products. You're gonna tell me who you told this whole swan for? You have not raised or explained any economic issue. It's not a program, it's a campaign! Please, when you report the current program with actual analysis.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u21	Dear National MP, I've been trying to tell you, obviously, it's been very noisy and you haven't heard me talk about the analysis of the situation in the current year. Of course, I noticed that this year is difficult, not just for Ukraine. The global financial crisis and the problems in the middle of Ukraine have certainly affected the situation. But we have a positive dynamic today. And that should, I think, be happy not only with the government, but also with the national MPs. Of course, we will end the year with a fall. But we're already with you today, by adopting this program, we can start this policy, it's not necessarily government policy -- it's a common policy of the government and the Supreme Council, where we would put up an economy that's not so sensitive to such crises. And I couldn't tell you about everything on the program -- a lot of pages. And I think you've studied it all carefully, and it's all written there. But I tried within my time.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u22	National MP Ribhub, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u23	Thank you. Ribuk, faction of the Party of the Regions, Zitomirščina. Dear Anatoly Arkadyovich, we have listened to you, but you have no right, first of all, to go out to this rostrum at all, because you are not a member of the government and there is no government, and he has given us here a set of phrases that do not at all match the reality or the essence of the program that you represent. But specifically, please give me an answer to why the direction of the fifth and the transition to high-efficiency agro-industry production you're talking about increasing gross output, you don't understand that efficiency in quantity is not measured in absolute terms, but in profitability, profitability and other categories. Why is there no word in this program? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u24	Well, first of all, thank you for those remarks, we're hoping to look at them with the committee and maybe add them up here. But, in principle, wool production is an important indicator of development, particularly agriculture, and this is actually a measure of the result that we are achieving in order to play the main role of agriculture is to create food for Ukrainian citizens. So of course you can go deeper and give more, I'd say, thin indicators of development, add an increase in profitability here. But once again, when we talk about it, we're talking about the terms of access to the loans that I've been talking about, it's all about the ingredients and the formation of profitability in agriculture, and it's definitely about increasing competitiveness. So I think we're taking these suggestions into account when we're working on the second reading. Thank you for your suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u25	Lyszko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u26	Oleg Lazko. The programme should normally be adopted in the first reading, because without it, without plans for 2010, it is said to be difficult for both the government and parliament, etc. If there are specific proposals in the opposition to improve this program, let's take them into account and support them before the second reading. If you've got your own program, I mean, in opposition, not just an organist program for tie and pulleys, but a country's economic development program, give it to your program and, I think, we'll support it too. But the problem is that we haven't seen her, this program of yours. And I would like to address you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Bills that you're not allowed to consider today, because they're obviously not going to get there, give billions of extra money to the budget. In addition, the issue of the functioning of justice is solved. We're already closed because of the lack of funds. And you don't support these bills. You vote for the bills that give you tens.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u27	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u28	Thank you. Thank you for that comment. I would like to support these proposals, which have been made and said, honourable members of the people, we have long since adopted an economic and social development programme. We haven't actually accepted it since the '90s. And that says that when we look at the budget, we didn't actually approve of the policy that should be embodied in this budget. So I would ask you, please, to take all the suggestions into account, but let's try to confirm this policy and then approve the budget that would support this policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u29	Thank you, Anatoly Arkadyovich. As for the question to me, I answer that I do not object or deny it. I'm creating opportunities for the people's deputies to be elected. If the national MPs support -- no questions asked, we can consider even after considering a socio-economic programme, if the national MPs of Ukraine have the will to do so. Please, Zabzaluk Roman Omelyanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u30	It is obvious that effective crisis management in our country has become possible only because of the tremendous efforts of the government led by Julius Volodymyrý Timoshenko. And the very project that the government has put in place today shows that it is able to adjust the work on how to get the country out of the crisis. I would like to ask you one more question, what do you put into the concept of "modernization of the health system"? And I'll pass it on to Oleg, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u31	Moisik Volodymir Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u32	Vladimir Moisik, MP “For Ukraine!” Please pass the word to your colleague, Archevetin Stanislav.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u33	Stanislav Arjewitin, group “For Ukraine!” Dear reporter, please tell us in the section “The task and maintenance of the stability of the national currency” you wrote: “The gradual transition in the medium term to the floating exchange rate while increasing the effectiveness of interest policy”. I have a question. Please tell me, what currency exchange rate will you support? That's the first one. And the second. How do you comment on increasing the effectiveness of interest policy?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u34	Thank you for asking. The course is designed to support exactly what you read, i.e. move away from the exchange rate fixation and move on to inflation targeting. It's impossible to do this right now, but it has to be done gradually, especially in an economy that's open enough. And course formation plays a pretty serious role, it affects, like inflation rates, other macroeconomic indicators. And as far as interest policy is concerned. First of all, we would like to see the future interest rate, first of all, that the National Bank's account rate actually affects the monetary rate as it is in other countries. On the other hand, we would like a percentage policy that. commercial banks that have.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u35	Please complete your response.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u36	Which should be consistent with the percentage policy of the National Bank, it was actually more favourable for manufacturers. Because these interest rates today make it difficult to run a business. And we know that today it's hard not only to give, but also to take credit. So that's where we want to go. But it must also be because of the decline in inflation, certainly, as I said in my report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u37	Anatoly Arkadyovich, you didn't answer the National Deputy Zabzaluk. He asks, please pay attention to his questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u38	With regard to modernization of health care. Well, I'll remind you that's priority 2.2 of the State Program. And above all, the goal of this modernization is to answer people's questions today in market economy conditions and changes in the forms of farming in many areas. So we predict that, first of all, to improve the working conditions of our treatment facilities through the acquisition of the necessary equipment that would provide a modern level of diagnosis, treatment, rehabilitation. On the other hand, to improve the qualifications and attitudes of doctors to provide adequate services to those in the hospital. And this is certainly not possible without considering changing forms of farming. It's also insurance medicine. And see, our free medicine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u39	Thank you, Anatoly Arkadyovich. Kovalova Julia Victorian.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u40	Kovalova Julia Victorian. Herman Hanni Mikolayevna will pass on the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u41	Dear reporter! Judging from the report that the government gave you here to make it known, since you are not a member of the government, one conclusion can be drawn that there is not only an astronaut in power in Ukraine but an astronaut. Because what you're saying can only be taken from space. Tell me, did you ever go out and talk to people? You say everything grows in Ukraine. If something is growing in Ukraine, it's only in our government's pocket. Please tell me, do you realize that without realising the situation in Ukraine as it is, it is impossible to find a way out of the crisis? Do you at least understand that when you talk about what's in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u42	Complete the question, please. Answer me.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u43	That's why I'm here. I say again, within my time frame, I've reported a draft programme that's being prepared, and which, I urge you to work on in the Supreme Council and accept. As far as it goes, do we know? We know the real situation and walk the streets, and we communicate with people. But in order to improve people’s lives, we obviously need to actually sit on this document, do it better so that we can adopt laws together that improve this life. So I suggest we sit down and work together, and I can't see any other way.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u44	Kirilchuk Evgen Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u45	Thank you. Kirilczuk, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear reporter, I would ask you not to be angry with the humiliations that sound on the right side of the hall, because the swan is interested in the swan, and it is more interesting than the program. Even if they brought the ideal programs here, they would say the same thing, and they would act the same way, because no question of a particular financial, economic problem has been answered. I know that by the end of the program, many national deputies will be offering us interesting, reasonable suggestions. For example, one question I'm curious about is how do you look at the fact that for export products, they don't have VAT and they don't have to go back there to eliminate crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u46	Dear Eugene Ivanovich, thank you for your reply to the first part of your question. In fact, I see an attempt to explain the situation today as it is, and the question of the national deputies is already making political decisions. As far as VAT is concerned. The government is now looking very carefully at the VAT problem in general and all the problems involved that arise both in the collection and in the compensation. This proposal of yours needs calculation, analysis, and we're ready to do it, and that's the conclusion. I cannot immediately say that this can be done, since this has to do with many factors, including the harmonization of taxation in Ukraine with taxes in other countries. But we're ready to work on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u47	Hermann Hanna Mikolayevna is referring the right to the issue of Chechtev Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u48	The distinguished Anatoly Arkadyevich, according to the analysis presented in the programme, the main cause of the internal crisis is the global financial economic crisis. But I won't let you. In 2004, the Januković Government ended with a GDP growth rate of 13.2 per cent, the highest growth rate being among the 15 republics of the former CIS. To date, after a half-year, we have 20 per cent of the decline in GDP and lost a third of the industry, i.e. we are 14th in the country's depth of crisis, i.e. mistaken reasons, reasons for the main factors that have affected the country's internal crisis. Therefore, if we have wrong assumptions about the internal crisis, how can we build a normal programme next year on these erroneous assumptions. I think it's not going to be a recovery and recovery programme, it's a program of further stagnation and crisis.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u49	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich, for your question. I can agree with you that, indeed, Ukraine, on the one hand, is. The situation in Ukraine is the result of a global financial crisis; on the other hand, it is a certain internal problem, and it is more of a systemic one than a temporary one. This is also the structure of our industry, which is more raw and less stable. It's oriented towards the external market, and as soon as there's a decline in the external markets, it's immediately reflected in the state of the economy. So, of course, the analysis needs to be done. And it would be good if, regardless of the political situation or preferences, we tried to work together to formulate a model of an economy that wasn't so sensitive to external influences that would have a strong internal market and internal demand. And so you have to find tools to do that. Actually, these tools should be focused primarily on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u50	Complete your answer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u51	Not even as much as we can do from the budget as when we give investment resources to enterprises and we have borrowed resources, then we have to create incentives for them to go to modernization. Then we have a chance to make a competitive economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u52	She's a blacksmith, Alexander Vilenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u53	Dear Anatoly Arkadyovich, in general supporting your speech and program, I would still like to pay more attention in my response to the external economic aspects, well, the closest of our trading partners is the European Union, Russia, as well as the sectors that you think you've stressed, can pull out our economy, that is, where the government would direct the best investment climate and even the state investment. And in view of this, how do you feel about the possibilities of external financial borrowing next year, that is, will our banks be able to finance abroad, and will the government be able to take additional financial investment into the Ukrainian economy next year, because the situation will, in principle, be difficult in the financial markets next year? Let me tell you about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u54	Thank you so much for asking. As far as priorities are concerned, you know, we've recently been at the board of the Ministry of Economics with invitations and people's deputies, and many of the famous economists have analyzed the structure of the investments that are being made in the economy today. And we've seen that most of the investment is made in those investments that correspond to the third level and maybe a little bit to the fourth. So now the problem is that the small investment resources that the economy can accumulate are gradually more and more invested in higher-level investments, otherwise we won't have any prospects. As far as borrowing is concerned, so far the most real loans are borrowing from international financial organizations and bilateral creditors. And we are now working very intensively, especially with the World Bank, with the European Bank, with the European Investment Bank and other institutions that today want and are willing to lend low loans.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u55	Complete the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u56	But our options will depend on the macroeconomic situation next year. Because all of these institutions put the conditions for cooperation in the same programme with the International Monetary Fund and the projected macroeconomic situation. So if we want to invest, we have to think about the decisions that we make on social issues and on other issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u57	Gordijenko Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u58	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. My dear reporter, it is certain that the crisis in our economy has been going on for 18 years. Please answer a few questions. First of all, does the government think that the principles of the liberal economy have been completely defeated in Ukraine? Next. Isn't it a necessary government that we still have to take ownership of the fundamental sectors of the economy, such as resources, grain and others? And you're talking about reforming many areas. We're on the verge of winter, can you honestly tell the Ukrainian people how much longer the housing-communal potential is enough to keep us from going into a completely technological disaster in the country?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u59	I thank you very much for these profound questions, perhaps even global questions. Well, as far as the liberal economy is concerned, the question is not that these principles are somehow obsolete, the issue of the application and making of their own Ukrainian policies. So you can borrow everything, but you have to skip through your own situation, through your own approach. So it seems to me that the question cannot be "or" – "or" – the question must be that we should have our own Ukrainian policy. And experience shows that those reforms that we haven't just borrowed, and what we've borrowed from knowledge have done to our people, based on our experience, they're successful, they're stable, and they don't change depending on the situation. And where we borrow, where often when a crisis comes or something, these sectors are weak. The second question. Yeah, it's about housing.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u60	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u61	It's about housing and utilities. Well, in general, in my report, I probably paid the most attention to housing and utility. Today, before this winter, we are prepared, there are enough supplies and fuel, and our Ministry of Housing and Utilities has the appropriate programs and is monitoring the situation on the ground. But you're absolutely right that this sphere, as no other sphere, is fundamental to citizens. So this is what we all have a bearing on. And that's probably what the government's biggest focus on in this program is housing and utilities. But there must be not only popular but also unpopular decisions, which are that we need to change our own forms of farming and implement appropriate tariff policies. Because if there's a breakup, if tariffs don't cover the cost, we have to do something about it: either from the budget, we have to make money out of it, or we put it all on businesses that are going to go down, really. So we need to face the truth and make the decisions we need. The second question, frankly, was written in an inexplicable way. Huh?Oh, my God! I do not see the possibility to apply the term “return”. But you need to be careful not to look at the form of ownership but to see the efficiency of farming. If a state form of ownership ensures efficiency, it is possible. Again, conditions of the global crisis have shown that, for example, we have now acquired a number of banks in state ownership. This has been done by a number of other countries. The question of what to do next is whether to develop this segment, or whether to sell it again, is a question that obviously cannot be answered perfectly by me, or even the most outstanding Nobel Prize winners today. I'm not taking on this humble mission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u62	Thank you, Anatoly Arkadyovich. Have a seat, please. Who will speak from the Committee on Economic Policy? Is Alexander Mikolayovich in place? Sick? There is no report from the Committee on Economic Policy. You? Please, National Deputy Yatzenko of the Committee on Economic Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, the Committee has unfortunately not considered the document and therefore leaves it to the room to be designated without the Committee's position, given the difficult political situation surrounding the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u64	Thank you. Please sign up for the discussion. Serbian Yuri Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u65	Dear colleagues! It's bad enough that the Economic Policy Committee has not considered the economic and social development plan, but I still think we need to support it, and our faction will support this bill, based on the country's need for development prospects. The country needs to know where it's going. And in this document, in all its shortcomings, there are guidelines that need to be guided by the economy of the country and our people so that they know where we're going. Let's do a detailed analysis of all the failures that are now. They are largely caused by the world crisis. And I really agree with the reporter that we can use this crisis to carry out a major reform. I'm a builder, you know that, and I want to focus mainly on building issues in this program, because on the other hand, I think my colleagues will say it, and I'm just saying it from the faction, which is going to be the support. It's a good thing you've finally got an affordable place. We will be able to build affordable housing without looking at such a high downturn in the construction that is currently being seen, if we are sure to have funds in the State Budget. But we need to change the budget code in order to make this a reality, so that we can plan our budget for two years. What's going on now? This comes out in all governments, we plan to start some kind of construction, and then when it starts, for the next year we forget it for good. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Finance is opposed. So I think that both the government's leadership, and we, as the Supreme Council, have to turn and change the view of both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economics. We can't have public funds scattered. The second question is about the same affordable housing. We can engage, affordable housing -- that's 30 percent of the state helps people who need housing. But if the state has two years of budget planning, if the state tells every region how much money it guarantees next year to build apartments in affordable housing, I'm sure that 70 percent of what it needs will bring people out of their savings. And then it won't take a major financial outflow during the crisis to raise the housing market. That's what we have to do. The same planning needs to be done for residential-communal facilities. Because it's not a secret, we keep talking about housing-communal reform and it's very good that it's written in terms of socio-economic development. But if there is no double budgeting, there will be no explanation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u66	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u67	Nevertheless, to make changes to the Budget Code and this is the main observation that we have before this economic and social development plan. In general, the faction will support it in order to accept it as a basis, to have direction, and to develop it into a second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u68	Akimov's Irina Mikhailovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u69	Respected colleagues, in times of crisis and especially when the country is depressed, it is important to have a realistic and effective social and economic development programme for at least a year. Ukraine is the only country in the world that does not have an anti-crisis programme and is probably the only country that will not have it the way the country really needs it. Now the relationship between Ukraine and Julia Timoshenko reminds me of the relationship between the homeless and Ostap Bender in the “Twelve Chairs”. You remember, the homeless man says, "Uncle, give me five copies," and Ostap Bender says, "You'll get a hole from the bubble, from the dead ass of the ears, and you'll get it from Pushkin." This is what is being proposed today in the form of a programme, I think it reminds me of the same “bubble hole” and “dead donkey of the ears”. Why? What is a good program? This is a realistic assessment of what has been done, a realistic assessment of the errors that need to be corrected, a set of real priorities with tools and specific indicators of success. What is proposed in the programme, as estimated in the past period? We know what he gave us this year. This year, Ukraine took first place at the rate of decline in GDP and industrial production, first on inflation. We have more than 50 per cent shadow economy and 143 per cent corruption. Is that on the program? There's not a word in the program. The programme, however, offers an excellent picture of how the dire world crisis has become the only cause of the difficult situation in Ukraine. And I think that the world crisis has completely overwhelmed the Timoshenko Government and prevented it from even thinking about what to do. What priorities are proposed in the programme: 7 directions and 23 priorities. They sound very beautiful, unfortunately, either not realistic or they have nothing to do with what the Government is actually doing. Just two examples. Priority, macroeconomic stability, will achieve less than 10 per cent inflation. The World Bank has already made a clear statement: next year, inflation will be at least 13-14. It's not a real priority, it's another lie. Priority two. A safe level of public debt. Allow me, but in the budget, in the draft budget for 2010, this safe level is going to increase to 45 per cent of this GDP, that's a safe level, if you'll excuse me, then we're not all economists. The most important thing is that there is no obligation to raise social standards in line with existing legislation, no obligation to adjust investment levels, at least to pre-crisis, pre-crisis levels. That's not on the program. That's why, I repeat, today's program is a bubble hole. You can't vote for her. And two letters to the deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u70	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u71	The deputy Lasko calls on the opposition to write his own budget and his own programme. I think this clearly shows that the existing coalition cannot prepare a realistic budget or a realistic programme. You can't. Go away. I think there's a more qualified team on the shoulder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u72	National MP Kravchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u73	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Respectable voters, respected by our colleagues, well, it is clear that the program is neither in form nor content. In terms of the form that the social and economic development programme can take, which is generally judged by how the Government works, which is a threat to the Government, if not approved, today it is not a member of the Cabinet of Ministers and there is no representative of the Cabinet of Ministers to consider the programme. I mean, not only by content, but also by form, there's no program. If you look at the programme, first of all, the programme does not say anything about the regulatory role of the State. Let's put it this way, the natural monopoly, as it was, is in private hands that were given before, that's basically who's closer. Let us put it this way: there is no record of oil or gas wells in the Poltava region today. They're all working for a private pocket today, and of course they're not going to make any money. In terms of the subsoil and the regulatory role of the State on the subsoils, its function is reduced to one more than to sever the charges for the subsoil, depending on the budget deficit and all. For example, the flusodomite and fire-resistance industries clearly follow suit. The draft budget completely destroys the raw materials base of these industries. The role of reform. Although the Under-Secretary, in response to a question, said what reform had been initiated and completed, which of the State programmes had been planned and their dozens had not been funded, which were finally funded from the budget, which had been completed and what was the economic impact of that. In terms of WTO, coal and other industries, the reforms that have been undertaken in the coal industry and other industries today have been completely disrupted by these industries. And this is evidenced by the fact that almost 59 mines are planning to be shut down on Donbass this year. This is the role of reforms. To date, therefore, the Communist faction has found that there is no programme in form, no content, and we will not vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u74	Arjewitin Stanislav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u75	Stanislav Arjewitin, a parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” I didn't normally analyze the entire program, I just focused on the tasks that the Cabinet of Ministers is putting in place to maintain the stability of the national currency and to restore confidence in the banking system. Well, of course, a few of the paragraphs described in this State Program are usually no answer, and I conclude from this that the Cabinet of Ministers has not put forward such tasks. I think, and I'm also convinced that the weakest place in the basic principles of the National Bank's monetary policy and in this state programme is the monetary component. I've been asking by accident what they can take from the question of what currency exchange policy will be next year, and I don't think the operators will be able to understand, because what is the floating exchange rate for the next year? What an effective percentage policy is, I don’t think it’s clear for the operators and how they can direct their activities, I think. But what I'd like to say is it's not just the guilt that we don't have today for almost the 20th year of our independence of a special currency law that regulates monetary policy, monetary control, monetary regulation. I, by the way, turned to the Cabinet of Ministers, saying that they should work out the concept of monetary policy in our country. I made this offer to the National Bank, but unfortunately, the National Bank said it was the position of the Cabinet of Ministers. The Cabinet of Ministers said it was the National Bank. The National Bank replied that these laws should prepare the deputies of the Supreme Council. I, by the way, prepared a bill on this subject. He's registered. I think it's obvious to everyone that in the absence of such a state-owned monetary policy, including this one, in the next year's government programme, we have a very high level of economic dollarization. We have excessive monetary liabilities, monetary debts both in the corporate and public sectors. We have a huge flight of our Ukrainian capital abroad, and in official statistics, every year in different economies, between $15 billion and $20 billion of our funds. Today, more than 50 percent of commercial banks’ credit portfolios are made up of foreign exchange loans. And today, monetary policies, small fluctuations, in fact, depend on all the subjects, almost the whole country. I think it's going to stay a little bit longer and our banking system will be represented solely by foreign capital. And then there's the question, who's going to lend low-cost agriculture, utility. Military-industrial complex, aircraft building and so on. So I think in this program we need to work on these exact tasks that I'm talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u76	Sebravsky Paul Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, our discussion of this program can be called: “Don’t be a pianist, he plays as he can.” This is actually a game presented to us today as a presentation of the socio-economic development programme. Here some colleagues said that it is only through the Titanic efforts of the government that the Ukrainian government is emerging from the crisis. No, because of the crisis and the warming of Ukraine’s external markets, it begins to show signs of recovery. Unfortunately, there is no government in this way. We didn't accept the anti-crisis program. Perhaps a post - crisis program should be offered today. In fact, all of the factions of all political power have been constantly saying that the crisis is just the moment that we can rebuild our relationship in the economic sphere. Unfortunately, there was no such overload. Unfortunately, there are slogans today, but there is nothing that follows these slogans. Of course, the analysis we were given imputes government. This is wrong and unfair to those who work in the real sector of the economy who have learned, thank God, to survive, not by means of power. And it's not just about today's government, it's not just about today's government, it's actually about the sequential number of governments that were. Today's socio-economic development programme has not seen the mechanisms for relaunching economic relations in the middle of the state. There's some direction, there's some demand, there's some desire. And the fact that not even the Minister of Economics has come to date, of course, is that we have a lot of respect for Anatoly Arkadyovich, which means that the government is not going to vote for this program. The government is simply in the Budget Code, and there is today in the legislation of Ukraine to present the program, so we'll cut you off and introduce you. So today all we have is a desire to make it to the elections, and that's the curve and take it out, and that's all that's going to help us, and that's all that's going to happen today in this socio-economic development plan. Anatoly Arkadyovich, I don't understand how you're writing the foreign exchange balance positive if we have a negative positive balance every month. If we had a positive start in the early part of the year, each month we have an increasing negative. On what prognosis do you write this down? In fact, they wrote what they wanted to hear, but not what was needed in economic relations, in social relations, and.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u78	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u79	And it's not really what the state needs. I am convinced that this program cannot be supported in this way. Because there's nothing behind it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u80	Thank you. Predicted by the Rules of Procedure by a faction that is not recorded. Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna, “Block of Lithuania” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u81	Dear colleagues! If it's very serious, and it's the only way we have to look at all the programs that relate to state and economic development, today we're looking at it for the first time in such a cut-off government, government representation. What is the country’s economic and social development programme? That's the plan that we're going to follow over the years and how our people are going to live. At least at the ministerial level, we would like to hear detailed answers to the questions that the people's deputies are asking. On behalf of our "Block of Lithuania" faction, I would like to focus literally on a few points. The main point we're counting today is that the real recovery of the economy in Ukraine, the rebirth and improvement of the lives of our people can begin when a reasonable bet is made on one or the other industries. This is the agricultural sector. What do we really have? Yes, there are detailed programs in the program that will support the government, whose development promises a good future for our agricultural sector. Sadly, though, we do not see any specificization in such painful issues that are still so much shouting in the countryside. For example, today we have a terrible decline in the animal industry. This is about support for these applications, but there is no specificity. We also want to see those who plan to invest in the village live and work there, specific things: how we grow cattle, pigs, and how we will provide our own meat for our Ukrainian people. And to do that, it has to be specified which preferences are going to be in the direction of whether we have credits or whether there will be a temporary withdrawal of taxes as to how limited exports and imports into Ukraine will be. Today he's suffocating our branches. There is no complete specification to support investment in the agricultural sector. And the main thing. We don't see any concrete action in protecting the fertility of the land, in general in protecting the Ukrainian land -- that's what's going to happen next year.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u82	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u83	And all the years to come. I think that this program needs to be radically worked out, and it's more likely that this will have to be done by a government that wants Ukraine to actually develop successfully in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u84	Mironenko Mikhailo Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u85	Please pass the word to Chechtev.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u86	Please, the Chechetov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u87	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! There is no deep analysis of Ukraine's socio-economic development over the past and current years and major development programmes in the relevant areas. In the programme, the main cause of socio-economic problems is essentially the global financial and economic crisis, although statistics show that negative economic trends have been detected since the first day of the work of orange power in the country. There is also a lack of compliance with the requirement to reflect the state sector's development indicators, including the receipt and use of government property revenues, the efficiency of the use of property rights, the development of casino enterprises, economic and social development balances, including economic cuts, and so on. The main objective of the program, as defined in section 2, is to restore economic growth. The following is the basis for reaching the goal. Note, too, that this is the basis for the positions that are meant to be the result of State policy. For example, this is achieving macroeconomic stability, reducing regional imbalances, removing infrastructure constraints, technological upgrades and enhancing the competitiveness of domestic production, energy security, moving to a highly efficient agro-industry complex, and enhancing innovation. In addition, it was appropriate to set priorities for direction and structure of capital expenditure, which we believe is important in view of the priority of strengthening structural reforms in the country's economy aimed at creating the basis for long-term economic growth, primarily by strengthening and expanding national production, which is geared towards producing competitive output in the internal market, expanding the scope of translation of labour in the first place in manufacturing sectors. Beyond the attention of the project's developers, in our view, there is no justification for the problem of establishing the most effective ones in terms of their stability, the availability of sources of financial security for capital expenditure. In our view, the status of the program is too eloquent and needs to be specified, designated, and defined. I want to say that, according to the Party of the Regions, this program is not a programme to restore and restore Ukraine, it is a programme of further economic stagnation and further crisis. A party of regions is proposing to reject this socio-economic development programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u88	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u89	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Honorable National Deputies, Honourable Ukrainian People, Honorable Deputy Ministers, for the government today is not represented by any member of the government! As a member of the coalition, this is a major flaw in the consideration of the state programme today, because it is not a forward view. I don't think any international meetings can distract us at least from the serious level of representation here. Looking at and appreciating Ukraine's 2010 economic and social development programme, I want to mark both positive and negative qualities, but I want to improve it. I'm sure I'll support it, but I'd like to find some feedback and development on domestic vaccines. And I want to tell you that back in August 2008, where the flu epidemic was, I was asking the Ministry of Health about the development of domestic vaccines, because they were destroyed institutions, and they could still be returned to the Ministry of Health. There's nothing on the program, unfortunately. As head of the Party of Fatherland’s Defenders, I emphasize that chapter or 1.4. 10 The state's defence level also deserves to be clarified, the lack of social protection measures for military personnel and their families to address housing issues, the strengthening of social protection that requires introduction and change, and budgetary revenues. There is no time limit and no order to remove the imbalances in the pension insurance of military personnel that were created depending on the time they were released from military service. Unfortunately, I did not see what we were going to do with judicial reform, but I did not see the answer to the questions that are in the letters of the judicial branch today. I'm bringing to your attention that we're asking the latest questions today about making changes to the state budget for the financing of the judicial branch of power. At that time, they report that a number of laws cannot be enforced in the courts. It takes everything to be written down. But obviously this is not supposed to be the Ministry of Finance, but the Minister of Economics is supposed to be there to record and plan everything, because it's an economy, because the Minister of Social Affairs. And so on. I mean, I'm in for, but with a substantial, substantial amount of work, because there are very, very many questions that are affected, that are not affected.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u90	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u91	Two seconds. Dear friends, there is a term here, a whole chapter: man and constant development. I would like our government officials to forget once and for all that simply the translation of the word “permanent” is not something that is “permanent” in the English language. “Stalium” is a bit different, “solid” and “development” are not exactly compatible. I would like Ukraine to develop on this program and everything in this country will be fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u92	Lukyanov National Deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u93	Dear fellow MPs, distinguished citizens, Madam Prime Minister! I want to address you personally, Mrs. Timoshenko, and I want to say, I've looked at this program of yours, I've worked very carefully on this document, and I've looked at what you're proposing. Unfortunately, you've forgotten about the people on this program. I want to show you that this money is the average pension, that's 680 dollars. If you take the average wage out of this money, about 300 dollars, we put it down, we're going to have less than 400 dollars left. Divide it into 30 days that people have to live. How much will you have for one day? You're going to have a little less than $14 for one day. That's what you are now providing people with their standard of living. This money needs to be bought for food, medicine, and clothing. How do you tell people to live? How in this situation do you have enough conscience, shame to look people in the eye, and say that you support constant development and other things that can be counted? Man and constant development, development of labour potential. That's 12-14 dollars a day, your development? I find it difficult to add anything else to these calculations. If I count something wrong, tell me. I have one question for you. You got more than $10 billion this year. If you count on the bracelet, it's 80 billion dollars. All of this money is spent on ununderstood programs for ordinary people. Wouldn't you be able to add at least 20-30 bracelets, well, 50, 100 bracelets, as Janukovic suggests? Why don't you want to increase the minimum pension a little bit, the minimum wage. Don't you understand that people are starving to death? People die of disease because they cannot afford to survive for this money. Now I've had a fight with your deputy who's climbing to the fore. I don't know if he was trying to block the short-term budget you offered, or what? I asked him, "Let me give you that money to pay for your tie." He told me, you know, it's Patrick Helman's tie, it's worth it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u94	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u95	I want to finish. He told me that this tie costs 3,000 dollars. And that pension money is not enough for one tie! Do you have a conscience in your faction? At what cost do you live? You say there's no corruption in the state. Here's the main course of work and the state's completion. And I want to give you one piece of advice. Look into people's eyes, retire, go to the monastery. And I'm sorry, you just told me about it. Look into people's eyes!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u96	The National MP, Arjevetin, passes on the right to speak to Kseniya Mikhailni Ljapini. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u97	Dear colleagues! Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine!” After this performance, I want us back to reality. If we read this program in its headlines, it seems like a beautiful European program. A fine goal is set by the government. Achieving macroeconomic stability, restoring confidence in the banking system, reforming, for example, tax reform, which we have been talking about for so long and so much. Unfortunately, though, these slogans have traditionally ended. Because, actually, the methods that are proposed are not just market economy methods, they're not even methods of economics, let's say a propensity for government regulation. These are methods of repressive economics, and I'm not actually surprised that in the latest international ratings, Ukraine has unfortunately become part of economies that are repressive economies. I'm giving you an example, macroeconomic stability, inflationary constraints, that's a wonderful goal. What is the way the government proposes? Make changes to the Regulation Prices Act and extend the price of regulation to natural persons entrepreneurs. Excuse me, what does that mean? What are we now going to be, not tax-free, but an inspection at prices, stating, excuse me, a "schmon" in markets? How so? What's that? What are we talking about? Where is stability? This is about the extra possibilities of repressive methods. Next. The wonderful goal of the government is to carry out tax reform at last. Written principles and directions. There are not bad directions, but only at the level of the slogans. But there's a very specific example of how they're asking for reform -- to introduce non-direct methods of determining tax liabilities. What is it, I'll explain it to you. It's when you make a declaration that you have damage, and the tax inspector lists and says, no, dear, you have income, in my personal opinion, and I'm not directly determining your tax liabilities. Such methods can be applied in countries where there is a high government. In our country, this leads to a repressive economy. Finally, trust in the banking system is a beautiful goal that we've all shared. But in what way this trust is offered to restore, to continue to accumulate government debt, to increase borrowing. Actually, so far we don't have any information on their effective use, unfortunately. So far we have a massive crisis, and we don't have, as I understand from the government program, any idea.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u98	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u99	Unfortunately, the government has no idea of how to get out of the crisis today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u100	Thank you. The discussion is over. Is there a need for a reporter in the closing word, Anatoly Arkadyovich? Please, the microphone of the government's bed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the suggestions that have been made. I would like to point out that many speakers said it was a government program. I would like us to see carefully that this is a 2010 program and it has to be aligned with the budget for next year. So I would have a request, even though we've already expressed thoughts, we're ready to take these constructive proposals into account, along with the appropriate committee, but the request would be supported, and that would be part of the beginning of the reconstruction that many national deputies here have been talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u102	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we now have an issue under consideration, which has a special decision-making procedure. Because we're adopting a law that we're approving a program that's being developed and submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Therefore, the Supreme Council of Ukraine cannot prepare it for the second reading, considering, and making proposals on an ad hoc basis, that is, copying another program. So we're only going to have one vote, just in general, because, as we make decisions on another issue, where the Supreme Council should only perform the approval function. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Act on the State Economic and Social Development Programme of Ukraine for 2010. [[Registration number 5140]] Please be sure. [[11:29:30.]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party - 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 149, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense - 24, Communists - 0, Litvina Block - 18, non-fractional - 1. Was it an offer to go back to the debate and vote again? Dear colleagues, if there is no insistence on returning to the vote, I can only say that we will return to this program once the Cabinet of Ministers has introduced another version of this program. We, in this case, can't take this job. Suggestions? Please sign up for suggestions. People's deputy, Pecklusenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, today the majority in Parliament have received another “good luck” from the Government. When 90 per cent of the members of the majority speak and say that the law is neither formal nor content, it reflects neither the unrealistic economy of today nor the prospects. How cynical it is today to say that this law can still be amended. I believe that this law must be left alone because the only thing it has from the programme is the name and the current Government needs to be sent to work on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u104	Bondarenko Volodymir Dmitrovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u105	Considering that my colleague Oleg Lazko has been ripped off the tie of the Czernigian Camomile-Footcombination, I give him my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u106	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, while we are said to be trying. We agreed on positions after the discussion that started this morning with the Supreme Council. And in this regard, there is a next proposal that is agreed between factions. To include a package for inclusion in the agenda and consideration of a question that was not supported yesterday by the establishment of the borders of the city of the Red Cross of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, and then to consider 4707 - budget changes and 5238 - budget changes in the financing of justice. And all three of these issues will be addressed immediately after the 2010 budget. Please put this proposal to the vote and to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u107	Jaroschuk Vladimir Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u108	Please pass the word to Chechtev.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u109	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues, we have now considered in detail the social and economic development programme presented by the Government. It was credited and sent to the place where it should be in the urn. I think that we will also be able to take credit for the country's budget, and its place will be the same as the programmes. Since both the programme and the budget are not programmes for the reconstruction of Ukraine, it is not a programme for the restoration of Ukraine, but a programme for the further moaning of the economic crisis in Ukraine. Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u110	Bodnar Olga Borisovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u111	Thank you. Olga Bodnar, Timoshenko Street. Dear colleagues, I want to tell you, when you're doing populism in this room, it has to have some boundaries. When you propose to raise social standards and you don't know where that money comes from, you have enough conscience for that. When the government offers a real program to fill our investment budget, you don't like it. Dear colleagues, if you really want to raise the minimum wage, you have to think, before you give social guarantees, you have to raise the economy. You can't do this without this program. So I'm very surprised at your position. And how are you going to explain to people where you're going to take the money under your candidate's promise? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u112	Stoyan Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u113	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, some here said, "Why is there no government, where is it?" There will be no government in this room because the government has ignored an important law, ours with you on social standards. He's got a big knee on us, you know what he's done. If we have honor, dignity, and conscience, we should hear a report from the government about why it ignores our laws. Now for the program. The program, look at what it's called, economic and social development for 2010. And this program should be implemented through the budget. I don't think I'm going to be able to make a budget statement, but I've already looked at the budget comment, so what's the program, when social pay is completely frozen, when the minimum wage is 650 dollars, and the poverty limit is 778 dollars today, when the budget brings back the minimum wage, i.e. if there's money, it's going to be the level, today's level of payout, paying the mothers with the children 17.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u114	Potapov Vasil Ivanovich. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u115	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, we have two options: this is the law of Ukraine, the draft law of Ukraine that we have either approved or not approved. Now we haven't been approved, but the amendments that we've made should definitely be included in the government's action programme now, and, I think we need to take a reasonable and balanced exit, give the government a full week's time, take into account all the amendments that you've made, because the positive should be taken into account, the shortcomings also that were in the observations of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, which were in the conclusions of the Court of Auditors and allow for the provision of those chapters that were not foreseen in this case. And I think that this law could be passed, because it depends on how we live, the election ends quickly, but we have to live after the election. So I'd like us to step away from the electoral rhetoric and get to the approval. And I would like to remind some of the political forces that this government has not told anyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u116	Ribuk Sergey Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u117	The Supreme Council was very loyal because it was not an economic and social development program, but rather the sum of some of the officials of the Ministry of Economics at the level of the first line specialist. I'm sure the minister of economy, so he didn't come today, either he didn't read it at all, or he didn't finish it. And the worst part is that this sum, if, God forbid, takes it to execution, it will finally balance the economics that is already very balanced. We must today demand not only the resignations of the government for such worthless documents, but first, the resignations of the minister of the economy, the abolition of such a worthless ministry, which only inhibits socio-economic development and the introduction of an elementary order, the creation of a new ministry that would not give us.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u118	Please, Maksuta Anatoly Arkadyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u119	Dear National Deputies! I'd like to say first. There were many questions about the government. I would like to say that today there is a meeting of Heads of Government of the SND countries in Crimea, and eight ministers are taking part in this meeting. That is why this explains the absence of many in this bed. And I would like to conclude by asking you to come back and support this program, because we are ready to work on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, you have heard the position of Deputy Minister of Economy and I want to correct you. Anatoly Arkadyovich, you know, we'll be precise. There is no part of it, but there are no members of the government. There's none. So there's good information. As for your request for further work. I don't think we need to vote here anymore. Work hard. Suggest a reexamination. It will go through the procedure and will be presented in the session room because the country must have a programme of its own development. Here we have concluded our consideration of the matter. Let's go to. One minute, I'm sorry, there was a proposal for us to include three draft laws on the agenda for today and to consider following the adoption of the 2010 draft budget decision, after considering the conclusions of the Budget Committee, three draft laws, three more precisely: the draft Order on the Change of the Borders of the City of Krasnoprek and of the Red Cross, as well as two laws amending the State Budget Act this year. [[No. 4801]] [[4707 and 5238]] I'm putting this proposal to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:40:56]] For 366 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we now have to understand clearly that we have changed the order in which matters are being considered today. We had previously ruled that at 12:30 we would have judges, and then there would be registration laws and the Ukrainian Presidential Election Act. If we have now voted on such a decision, it is clear that we will not be able to complete the discussion by 12.30 with regard to the conclusions of the Committee on Budgets. So we're getting out of this time limit, and then we're still going to have three projects that we need to consider. So we're going to have to take the time to consider the appointment and release of judges, well, and the two laws that were meant to be considered after we didn't have any questions afterwards. Please, Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u121	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, to be honest, I have met this phrase with such a sad smile because I have been waiting for it from the very morning. When you finally say that the Supreme Council will not implement its decisions voted on your proposal on Tuesday morning that at 12:30 this morning we will consider practically urgent bills that relate to the electoral process. We all understand that putting them away for another two weeks means not taking them. If it's in someone's interest, let's put it directly. And if we're interested in democratic elections, let's look at these bills. And what's not urgent is put off.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, in order to avoid such issues and accusations, I am now re-voting the question of the annulment of the previous decision on the question of the appointment and release of judges, and then two questions, on the state register of voters and on the amendment of the law on election of the President of Ukraine and approval, in view of the approval of the decision to consider the three projects currently supported by the session hall. Please. So, then, the question of appointment and dismissal of judges is being considered after the end of budgetary matters. Do you understand the offer? A misunderstanding of the offer. I repeat. We will now begin our consideration of the conclusions of the Ukrainian budgetary committee, the budgetary committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Ukraine's 2010 state budget. We will only begin our consideration of the matter. At 12: 30 a.m., we should consider the appointment and release of judges. But we're only going to end up with a report from the profile committee. We won't have more time. That's the question. Are we breaking up the budget issue? Will we conclude our consideration of the conclusions of the Budget Committee and the budgetary issues that have now been voted upon and then consider the appointment of judges? Since the decision of the Supreme Council, which was approved on Tuesday, was in fact that these issues were being considered and then dealt with by judges and by law on the state register of voters, and on amendments to the law on the election of the President of Ukraine. Because within the time limits that we've talked about, this doesn't fit, we need to now come to a decision on how we're going to act. Please. What suggestions? Andriy Anatoliyovich Kožemiakin. The proposal to move to 4: 00 p.m. the appointment and release of judges Andriy Anatoliyovich Kožemiakin. The proposal is for a vote. Please Identify [[11:45:23]] For 354 Decision taken. I ask, please, the secretariat, the judges, to be in position for 16 hours. And we will consider the following questions according to the previous decision. After the appointment and release of the judges, we will consider changes to the national voter register and to the President's Election Act. The National MP says that there was no such decision. Now I'm asking you that we didn't have any procedural questions. We moved 16 hours to consider the appointment and release of judges. I ask you, then, to determine right now that after we have considered the question of the appointment and release of judges in the event that budgetary issues are not completed, we have completed them and we have moved on to the question of the state register of voters and to the Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine. Please, Kožemyakin Andriy Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u123	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, I would like to propose that we put this question to the vote -- to work today until we consider these important issues regarding the register and the election of the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u124	Today? Just these questions, or all those on schedule today? Please. The proposal by Andrija Anatoliyovich Kožemjakin that we work today until we have completed the consideration of budgetary issues and issues related to the amendment of the Law on the National Register of Voters and the amendment of the Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine. This proposal is based on a vote. [[11:47:31]] For the 220. The offer is not supported. Dear colleagues, we seem to have resolved all procedural matters so that none of the questions will be asked. I remind you again, we're working, we're now starting to consider the conclusions of the 2010 Committee of Budgets on Ukraine's State Budget. We're also considering this at 16 o'clock, no matter where we stop, we're going to consider the appointment and release of judges. After that, we either finish the budget issues that have now been tabled, and the three that have been voted, and move on to the review of the Law on Amendments to the Law on the State Register of Voters and to the amendment of the Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine to make it clear and not raise any questions. We've completed this question. I am announcing the draft State Budget Act for Ukraine for 2010. [[Registration number 5000]] Please, Mikola Ivanovich Derkach.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u125	Dear Chairman! Dear national deputies, invited! The Committee on Budget Affairs has been working on nearly 1,300 proposals from the National Deputies, Deputies and Committees of the Supreme Council that have entered the table of proposals for the 2010 State Budget Bill, which is given to you. In accordance with the requirements of Article 40 of the Budget Code, on the basis of such proposals, conclusions and proposals have been prepared for the draft State Budget Act 2010. First of all, it should be noted that, unlike in recent years, the 2010 budget process has been complicated by some significant factors that have a direct impact on the consideration of the State Budget Bill and have significantly changed the approach to this issue. First, in the Act on the establishment of living minimum and minimum wage, adopted in October of this year, social guarantees for the following year are much higher than those provided in the State Budget Bill 2010. According to the government’s expert assessment, the additional budget spending is over 70 billion dollars for the implementation of the bill in the following year. Secondly, the state budget bill for 2010 is based on an invalid budget code. Addressing such problems has become a key issue in the process of considering the State Budget Bill 2010 at the Committee on Budget Issues. Therefore, in its conclusions and proposals, the Committee proposes to entrust the Cabinet of Ministers with the drafting of the bill to make balanced proposals for taking into account the provisions of the Law on the establishment of living minimum and minimum wage, to clarify the main macroeconomic projections for 2010 and to amend the relevant budget indicators, to take account of the current situation of the Budget Code. In addition, in order to reconcile fiscal and tax legislation, a government mandate is given simultaneously with the submission of the State Budget Bill 2010 to submit an additional bill amending certain tax laws. It is proposed to amend the text articles of the draft State Budget Act 2010 which improve the law and bring it into line with the requirements of budgetary legislation. In line with the proposals made by the Government's national deputies, the National Bank is tasked with aligning the forecast of the US dollar exchange rate for 2010, on the basis of which the project budget indicators are calculated; in addition, aligning with Nitzbank the amount of funds contributed to the State budget in 2010 from the excess of its revenue over expenditure, improving state price regulation for basic food products, other essential goods, medicines, housing services and the linkage of changes to the relevant legal instruments, and addressing the issue of the write-off of separate floors. individual NAC “Naftogaz Ukraine” foams and fines awarded by the supervisory authorities for violating tax, customs and monetary legislation. In order to settle the differences in part of the payment to the oil, natural gas, and gas condensate budget, prepare changes to the relevant laws. Define the total amount of State guarantees in 2010, taking into account the guarantees of loans from international financial institutions and the costing of loans from Ukraine to the state budget special fund. Provide information on the realisation of the amount of funds coming from the privatization of state property in 2010 and on the number of enterprises subject to privatisation next year. With regard to issues affecting local self-government authorities and supporting the supply of national deputies, consideration should be given to the following government mandates: to further develop with local self-government authorities the calculation of the income and expenditure of local budgets, taking into account the state of actual implementation of these budgets in the current year and socio-economic development forecasts for 2010; to improve the order of recalculation of local budgets of surplus incomes of the general fund on the basis of public taxes and assemblies, taking into account the proposals of the national deputies; to develop a separate order of reimbursement for transport enterprises of losses from the transfer of foreign debt categories of citizens, or to provide targeted assistance to such categories of citizens; and to provide for a subsidy to local budgets for the cancellation of debts due to differences in the cost of the security of the budget. Honourable national MPs, taking into account the numerous proposals made by the National Deputies from all the MPs regarding the allocation of funds for capital investments and investment projects, are given a separate mandate by the Cabinet of Ministers: when the bill is finalized, such proposals are taken into account for the development costs of the General Fund of the State Budget and the costs of the Stability Fund. Overall, according to the proposals made by the legislators ’ right to draft legislation, the need for additional budget costs, without taking into account the proposed changes to the size of social guarantees, is about 153 billion dollars. Taking into account the budgetary conclusions of the Supreme Council, it is impossible to determine the specific amounts of income, expenditure, credit and deficit of the State budget and inter-budget transfers for 2010, ensuring that the principle of budgetary balance is respected. Only government and the Ministry of Finance, which has the right information, can carry out appropriate calculations of such indicators. Therefore, it is suggested that the government consider all the general proposals made by the national deputies, the MPs and the Supreme Council committees for the bills. In this way, the Committee on Budget Affairs approved the conclusions and proposals for the draft State Budget for 2010 at its meeting yesterday, and recommends that the Supreme Council adopt a corresponding draft order of 5000-1p. The adoption of such a document will not allow the budgetary process to stop and create conditions for the adoption of the State Budget 2010 Act until the end of this year. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u126	Thank you, Mikolo Ivanovich. Please sign up for a question to the reporter. Arzhevtin Stanislav Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u127	Stanislaw Arzhevtin, a deputy group “For Ukraine!” Dear reporter, I have listened very carefully to you and thank you very much for paying attention on your committee to the censuses on the side, the unrealistic censuses that were planned by the National Bank, the 10 billion that we've been talking about for a very long time. Thank you very much for paying attention to the actual exchange rate that should be set in the budget. But I was expecting you to say one more important thing, if you, and you've studied carefully, and you've pointed out that all the borrowing, that is, the deficit in the 2010 budget is actually planned to cover domestic borrowing, and that's almost 100 billion dollars, once again by way of redemption by the National Bank of these securities. That's a very large sum. And I think your committee should understand the consequences of deepening macroeconomic imbalances, especially on currency. on the stock market and accelerated inflation. Would you please raise that question?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u128	The distinguished colleague, yes, we have clearly discussed this issue in advance. Yes, indeed, the size is high. But why are we sending the Cabinet of Ministers to make a balanced contribution, including given these amounts of repayment? Therefore, we will return to this issue if the Supreme Council is allowed to do so on another reading. Until the second reading, we will balance it. In the Committee, we cannot make calculations on balance. We don't have any indicators. This can be done by the Ministry of Finance. We will therefore take your comments clearly into account in the consideration of this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u129	Bondarenko Volodymyr Dmitrovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u130	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, Party of Reform and Order. Dear Mikolo Ivanovich, we discussed in detail yesterday those documents submitted by the government. Of course, they have a field to work on, they have a huge number of proposals from deputies, and so on, including from grassroots organizations, are meant for council. But I want to ask you a question. Today, there is a position on those social standards and the wages that have been discussed. I'd like you to sign a transcript today, or ask the government to do a calculation of the extent to which the social standards voted here and the government's proposals coincide and where there is a difference. In my view, today the government has foreseen in the draft budget virtually all positions relating to the poorest part of the population. And it was done consciously. What the opposition is proposing today is not an option.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u131	Dear colleague! Thank you for asking. I have this mandate in my statement to the Government and together with the Government, we will consider on the Committee the reality of the implementation of these and other laws. I would like to remind members that, unfortunately, there is no issue today, but we still have a large number of bills, some hundred billion dollars of bracelets not being implemented in the draft budget, including in 2010. As far as the reality of all laws is concerned, it is useful to consider all of them before a single bill that deals with people's lives. I also stress that more than a dozen such bills have more than a hundred billion bracelets.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u132	Thank you, Mikola Ivanovich. At 12:31, please return to the rostrum. A break of 30 minutes is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, we continue our morning plenary session. On the rostrum of Mikola Ivanovich Derkac, the answer to the questions continues. National MP Grigorovitch is transferring the right to speak to the national deputy Skutjak.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u134	Mikola Ivanovich, please explain what we are looking at: are we looking at a state budget, like here, a first reading review, or are you just informing us about the state budget? As far as I'm concerned, we didn't make any decisions. On the basis of what was taken into the committee by the State budget, we are provided with information that thousands of amendments have been made and why. What we are looking at today, please explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u135	Thank you for asking. Since the decision was not taken when the submission was rejected or sent to the Government and 204 votes, it remained in the Supreme Council. Further proceedings are under way in the Committee, the submission of proposals by deputies and factions. The Committee is also considering conclusions, and today we are considering the conclusions of the Committee. The proposals of all deputies, committees, factions are summarized in the table and are addressed in a letter. We are therefore now considering the conclusions of the budget committee on the draft draft budget for 2010.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u136	Sebravsky Paul Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u137	Dear Mikola Ivanovich, and in fact, voting for conclusions is voting, in fact, approval in the first reading. And if we vote, so we've approved the conclusions proposed by the committee, we've approved the budget law in the first reading. And the first reading is the approval of the philosophy of the budget, which is, first of all, the income part, the approval of the income part. And to this day, you and I understand clearly, macro indicators are unrealistic, many violations of the Constitution are, like, dislike social standards -- unaccounted for, and many other things are not included. So the proposals that you're talking about, a thousand, you're talking about, over 800 over there is to the spending area, there's not enough to the income section, to the philosophy of the budget itself, and basically these are the allocations that we're talking about. If you're talking, you're not talking, you're writing 153 billion and you're writing an extra.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u138	Complete the question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u139	153 billion on those MPs' demands and plus some billion 80 on social standards and counting the income portion of the budget about 280-300 with something billions of dollars, it's actually another budget. In fact, can we work on it today, or should we really send it to the government without covering it, to form a philosophy of this budget, and then we would approve of the first question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u140	Pavel Ivanovich, thank you for asking. In our conclusions, we have the first paragraph to entrust the Cabinet of Ministers with “to make balanced proposals on the accounting of regulations and the Standards Act” and macro indicators, of course all of this will change, the GDP, including so on. The dollar rate is that the actual figure, the budget deficit, then all borrowings, transparency and so on. Therefore, it is for the deputies to choose the way today: or to conclude, what we have tried to make their comments on each paragraph of the law. This is primarily in line with the Constitution and the Second, Budget Code, other laws that have been passed, we have done this work and today I have presented the decision of the Committee on Conclusions clearly with regard to the laws on budgeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u141	Hell-bent Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u142	Dear Nikolai Ivanovich! I respect you as a colleague, as Chairman of your committee, you are indeed working professionally and systematically, and you cannot help but realize that there are three major problems in this budget, or what is called a budget. Contrary to the Constitution in force, it is totally illegal to write out articles and provisions on the basis of the non-existent budget code. The law to raise social standards may be passed; it may not like it, but the Government and power must submit to the majority. If they have other opinions or more, they may vote on it. Today my colleague Zebrivsky spoke of philosophy. Philosophy is also established in the socio-economic programme, and it is rejected. What are we going with? You say the main thing is not to slow down. The main thing is not to slow down or accelerate the country's budget. The fact that you're running it around at the end of this circle, unfortunately, is the only one.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u143	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u144	Nikolai Ivanovich, you can't help but realize that this law, whoever's in the president's place -- it's in any case, the law in that form and in that content will make a commitment. So instead of having two months of serious, substantive, professional work now, we'll be working in two days, breaking a spear, creating a budget. I ask you, let's put forward the proposal that you know that opens up the budget process and puts an end to this budget campaign.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u145	Thank you, Alexander Nikolaevich, for your assessment, and for all the action of the committee on this matter. I want to emphasize once again, there are two ways through permission. Through the decisions that the Committee has taken, the conclusions, and they take into account not only the three that you have named, but much more. I will list them, they are there up to half a hundred, all the tasks that go beyond certain articles of the Constitution and of the law, in particular the current budget code. They're all prescribed. You named the three main ones that you can go on the way to work on or another option that you're talking about. In principle, there has to be a balance. I said, the previous one was asked, unfortunately, we still have a few dozen bills that need 100 billion, and they're all important. It was therefore necessary to sit down, proposed, and then did not vote on the proposals of the working group with Kabmin at the time, and perhaps we would have made a balanced budget today and considered both the state-of-the-art and other real bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u146	Celnik's Alexi Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u147	Dear Mikolo Ivanovich, if I understand from the previous discussion, we are looking at, firstly, not a constitutional budget, secondly, a budget that is based on non-real macroeconomic indicators. I have a logical question, but I might not even consider it. If, you know, the first is a very serious accusation, and the second is more than a valid accusation, it can stop this discussion altogether, it can be rejected immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u148	Thank you for asking. The distinguished colleague, first of all, the budget remained in the Supreme Council after he was not elected to send it to the Government, 204, you remember. The second proposal was to set up a working group to prepare a balanced budget and take into account all comments. Yes, once again, certain budget lines do not conform to the Constitution and the Budget Code. To that end, the budget committee concludes its own questions, and more than 50 of them, where we emphasize and invite the Government to take account of them. If they are not taken into account, we will vote here in the Chamber as the budget committee proposes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u149	Karpuk Vladimir Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u150	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Mikolo Ivanovich, if you take a deep look at the draft decision you're proposing, where you write that to clarify the basic predictive macroeconomic indicators, you're already concluding that the macroeconomic indicators given by the government are far from real. In the recommendations of the Cabinet of Ministers, you write down: along with the National Bank, determine the rate of the dollar, write that the price of imported natural gas needs to be determined, you draw conclusions from others about budget deficits, tax laws and so forth, and so on. So we can conclude from this that your committee doesn't, well, accept this budget, and how can these conclusions be confirmed? This is, in fact, to confirm the first reading when even these positions can be concluded that the budget is unrealistic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u151	Thank you. A very important question was asked. I answered it in part, and I want to say it again. As chairman of the committee, I report on the conclusions voted on by the members of the budget committee. There were opinions about which you speak, including Paul Ivanovich has his own, so to speak, opinions and other deputies. So they voted in favour of the conclusions I proposed today. They take all the positions into account. But the question is being further developed in conclusions. That's how they voted. That's why I can't offer another one from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u152	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u153	Dear Nikolai Ivanovich, the claim is not for you, but for the Government. In my view, so rudely, so unprofessionally, no government has made a budget, as the Government has done in the ninth year budgets and the 10th year project. Well, last year, the budget was set up to raise GDP by 0.5 per cent, and GDP dropped by 20, i.e., the budget went out of business: economy, one way, budget, the other, and the country, in a deep crisis. This year, it would appear that the real budget would have been adjusted and then pushed away from the real budget this year and formed a real budget for the following year. But we have nothing under our feet. We have also removed the legislative framework because of the ineffective budget code, yes, we have not established social standards. Nikolai Ivanovich, as a professional, you should probably understand that you can't get a plane out of a dead body. We need a plane to raise our economy. Why did your faction, knowing that, and you as a professional understand that, last time they didn't vote for the budget to give to the government for finalization, yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u154	Dear colleague, I will not comment on the decision of the faction, as your deputies do when you make a decision we do not always understand. As for the economy, I, Mikhail Vasilevich, with you who, with a well-deserved economist I can, I deeply respect, I can agree that, indeed, the macro indicators last year and this year are enough, I have always used the word optimistic, too optimistic even this time. That is why we propose to return to this issue to the Government already. We already have 10 months of outcomes and macro indicators to review, along with Nitzbank, to work out the indicators that are possible with regard to prices and all other issues. And in furtherance, make a real budget and a balanced one, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u155	Jódzik Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u156	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People’s Party. Dear Mikola Ivanovich is known to have been in Ukraine for more than a year and a year and a year and a year and a decree has been in place to regulate these issues. As a result, more than 80 billion dollars of government purchases were made by one participant. The whole country has recently been appalled by the fact that the purchase of Tamiflu at a price that is 5 times higher than the price of the manufacturer. There's also information, it's in this government that in the previous government, the prices for the purchase of medical equipment were three times higher than the prices of the manufacturer. The situation is similar in virtually all areas of the national economy. Don't you think of it as a real balance of the budget to reduce government spending?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u157	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u158	Do you not think, in order to actually balance the budget, to write in the commission of the government that the Cabinet of Ministers should take into account the adoption of the new Act on State Procurement requirements of the World Bank, which this world financial institution has put into the State Procurement Act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u159	Thank you for asking. The question is very important. In conclusion, there is one point, but it concerns further. But it is with regard to linking those requirements and recommendations of international organizations that I can support. Let's write. If the House votes in favour of such an appointment of the Cabinet of Ministers, I personally support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u160	Marmazov Eugene Vasilovich. Excuse me, Moisik Volodymir Romanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u161	Vladimir Moisik, MP “For Ukraine!” Please pass the word to your colleague Arjevetin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u162	Stanislav Arzvitin, MP “For Ukraine!” Mikola Ivanovich, well, it becomes obvious from what you have reported, from those questions that say that any indicator that is not based on the base, he deviates by a percentage of 20, by 25 at any base rate. This indicates that perhaps it is really inappropriate to discuss all of this right now. I wanted to ask you a question about the deflator that's written down, 22.2 percent of it, even if it's too much GDP. Well, the consumer price index just seems funny to any economist who knows these three digits. So there is a proposal, perhaps, to consider immediately the decision made by Kirilenko and Leipzig that this law should be rejected and sent to the Cabinet of Ministers to work on it. And on Sundays, in a week's time, it's been, well, more or less real.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u163	Thank you for asking. It's up to the deputies to decide. The Chair will raise questions in the order in which they are received. Conclusions, then others. And that all the indicators, I agree with you, have to be recalculated, clearly. Based on the results of the 10 months, it's even been 11 months.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u164	Marmazov Eugene Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u165	Nikolai Ivanovich, you said in your report that the people's deputies had made 1,300 proposals. Well, that's good. People's deputies from the places know the situation and make proposals. That's very good. Here, actually, and I made a proposal, it goes under number 577 in the drawing table. On the financing of the coal-turbing complex. That's the most serious question. The Budget Committee considered the proposal. What he approved is not my proposal. Neither is what they sent to the Cabinet of Ministers. I have the question, "Where is my proposal, like fate?" And it's probably not just the fate of my proposal? These are questions that neither there nor there are their fates? And the question is very sharp. The turret complex was leased for five years, looted, literally, through the courts we've now returned with difficulty, well, we've got what's left. Decide what to do with this complex. We need to find funding. There's no line in the Ministry, there's no money, everything's left to rest. What's to be done?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u166	Thank you. I own that question. Your amendment is in the table. If we vote today in favour of the conclusions of the budget committee, this will go to the Government along with conclusions and statements. And our task will be to monitor this issue. But this substantial amendment of yours is, your proposal. Indeed, the issue deserves public attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u167	Zibenko Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u168	Thank you. Communist faction, head of the Ukrainian veteran organization, Peter Cibenko. Dear Mikolo Ivanovich, I probably won't be original if I repeat the rhetorical question that some of my colleagues have been repeating. In fact, what you're doing in this rostrum, understanding that. That today, as a state budget project, it's not viable at all? But I'm still going to ask two questions. Question one. Today, about 100,000 people with disabilities of the Great Home War and Chernobyl are in line to obtain a car. See what you have to offer. It's suggested that I round the figures, one and a half million dollars at the expense of the disabled themselves, and 95 dollars at the Stabilisation Fund. Please tell me, as an expert, do you believe that there will be costs in the Stability Fund for these purposes? I'm not, frankly.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u169	Thank you for asking. With regard to the reality of this figure and its implementation, that figure is not enough. And the fact that it can be funded if the stable fund is still bad, but this year it's filling up. That figure can be realized, and we are dependent. Together with you, your committee and our committee, we can implement this proposal, believing it is realistic and feasible.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u170	Dear Mikolo Ivanovich, if you please, I have a question for you. I looked at the conclusions, and that's the 26th conclusion in the section "The Cabinet of Ministers" you're proposing to look at the size of the basic social standards, based on the actual budget possibilities. Please translate it into human language as to what it means. This means not to comply with Ukraine’s law, or does it mean to carry it out so thoroughly that other articles on spending or new income articles can be considered? So what do you mean by that?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u171	Dear Alexander Vladimirovic, I can only say because it is here voted what is meant. Reference is made to the relevant proposals of the deputies. Therefore, in the course of its consideration, the Government must, first and foremost, consider the rest of the laws that it called, naturally, 100 per cent, and we will already be a committee. If there is a second reading, we will monitor the issue. It is therefore the case that the budget should still be. meet both the Constitution and the Code in a balanced manner. But there is no way to ignore the laws that have been passed, that is, 100 percent should be covered. Here you go. One serious question, let's all talk about how to fill the income part of the budget that they have set: 153 billion, 70, and 100 -- those laws that are not adopted are another budget. In the shadows, everyone calls it here, which is between 25 and 50 percent. That's what we're gonna do. Then let's talk about budget expenditure. And in principle, everything is real, we need to get out of the shadow of the economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u172	Thank you, Milo Ivanovich. Have a seat, please. I had no doubt that you are behind the fact that the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine, are always being followed by everyone. Thank you. Please invite the head of the Chamber of Accounts of Ukraine Simonek Valentin Kostinović.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u173	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues! The results of the review of the draft State Budget Act 2010 approved by the College of the Court of Auditors were sent to you, the President of Ukraine, by the Cabinet of Ministers, in October 2010. In addition, the budget committee of the Supreme Council is presented with article proposals with all the calculations. Based on the reaction to our materials, almost all the results of the examination have been approved. That is why, my distinguished colleagues, I quote the outcome and the conclusion of the examination to begin with. “The College of the Court of Auditors notes that Ukraine’s draft State Budget Act 2010 was formed with numerous violations of the Constitution, the Code of Budgets of Ukraine, and other legislation. The draft does not meet the guidelines set directly by the Government in the 2010 budget statement of objectives and tasks. The low probability of macroeconomic projections creates a system of real risks for the implementation of basic State budget indicators. Thus, the bill needs to be thoroughly redrafted." And, dear colleagues, judge for yourselves: the draft State budget does not take into account or violate 9 articles of the Ukrainian Constitution, 11 laws of Ukraine, 2 decisions of the Constitutional Court have been ignored and 5 acts have been suspended, and 14 have been amended. We have seen this situation before, but never on such a scale. But we have never met and ignored the Budget Code, we meet for the first time. This is particularly the case with regard to the financing of the local budget and, without exaggeration, affects the interests of every individual citizen. And as we are not convinced that this is for the benefit of the budgetary independence of the territorial communities, it will in practice be subject to the strict submission of local budgets to the centre, in violation of the basic principles of self-government and thus, in the new year, to live in the rule of law. The Government has demonstrated legal nihilism in the drafting of the law under discussion. It works exactly the same as drinking a fight, but before fighting a fight, you have to drink. Second. For the first time since 1992, the planned years of the State budget have exceeded by more than 12 billion rubles, and I stress that revenues have been overestimated. This means that the actual deficit will be much higher than the one indicated in the budget project by a minimum of 1.3 per cent to 1.5 per cent. As in this year, the funding of the budget is mainly based on new borrowings, while forgetting that the situation of the public debt in 2009 cannot be described as archi-complex. I will give a few figures, in 2007, the eight years of service and public debt were 9.8 billion bracelets. They already amount to 42.5 billion rubles this year. As of 2010, the Government had to plan a service and public debt service budget for a small amount of griven, a large amount of griven, and billions of griven. So every fifth bracelet in the budget we have to pay off automatically for debts. Let us compare debt with economic expenditure, remember that it is the real economy that is the main source of income, including debt recovery. Thus, the total economic activity in the State budget for 2000 is 44 billion and the debt repayment is 12 billion. More than that. 12 billion less than service and public debt. The idea of where we're going is to make it easy for respectable deputies. Third. Implementation of the Standards Promotion Act. “Enhancement of social standards”. Naturally, the bill on the State Budget 2010 introduced in September could not take into account the rules adopted later in the Act on the Improvement of Social Standards. But this law has already entered into force, and according to the Constitution, it must be implemented. Question: Is there a State's financial resource for the implementation of this law? The results of the independent audits carried out by the Court of Auditors show that they exist in the State. And I stress that, not through additional fiscal burdens on the business entity, fiscal burdens are already under way. In the draft budget, 30 and a half per cent represents the level of redeployment of gross domestic product through the consolidated budget. This is one of the highest indicators in the history of State independence. As the Court of Auditors has repeatedly proposed, it is necessary to deal with the country's vast, practically unmanaged budget, not by jumping, but by working hard. This is also a rigorous centralization of targets. Inventory of targeted programmes, which are virtually not implemented, of budgetary and budgetary programmes, and of course of the budget network. A qualitatively new approach to tax reform and expansion of the tax system is needed. In October of this year, the Ministry of Economy stated that it estimated the shadow sector in the country to be 36 per cent of the domestic gross product. Two months earlier, the Court of Auditors had named the percentage. made its calculations and made 40 per cent. As you can see, there's no big difference. But it is time to move from empirical calculations to concrete action, because only a 12 per cent drop in the shadow economy, this growth that we have achieved in the past year, will provide additional revenue to the State budget of over 30 billion revenue and to the combined budget of some 49 billion. In our view, that is what it must be. This should be addressed by the Government to address complex social issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u174	Valentin Kostinovich, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u175	Maybe it's the main thing. The Government had recently adopted Decree No. 11181 of 29.10.2009 on measures to ensure the implementation of State and local budgets in 2010. By this decree, the Government recognized that its draft State budget was unrealistic. For example, the Ministry of Economics has been tasked with developing and clarifying the projected macroeconomic indicators, while the Ministry of Finance has been tasked with providing income reductions of 31 billion grevens and expenditures of 40 billion grevens. As a result, it is concluded that the Government does not intend to implement its budget. I've got everything. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u176	Thank you, Valentin Costinovich. Let's sign up for a discussion. Thank you. Let's sign up for a discussion. Stoyan Alexander Mikolayovich. Commits the right to speak to Hellhound Alexander Mikolayovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! We can now often hear the question that the Party of the Regions is against the budget. That's a lie. We're not against the budget, we're against the budget. It is precisely the way to budget promotion and budgetary adventure that is now under discussion. Since the submission of the Government's draft budget for 2010, experts, people's deputies, including my colleagues from the BIT, have been categorically opposed to the existing draft budget. They also cited a number of facts that indicate the underlying problems of the document. What were they all about? We are convinced that the budgetary policy proposed by the Government for the following year leads, above all, to the impoverishment of Ukrainian citizens, both working and incapacitated. It leads to economic collapse, increased tax pressure on business, not rational, manual use of budgetary resources. The particular problem is local budgets, we just put local budgets in the canals. If local budgets today were unable to use their resources for weeks in the current situation, if God does not give this budget, you will not receive your money for months. The uncontrolled growth of the State's income, and the worst part of the budget, is the rise in prices of goods and services for the population. If the authors of the budget conclusions felt that the document could and should have been improved, they should have been targeted at painful points. What do we really see? We, my respectable colleagues, if you open this foliot, will be provided as an adjustment to the Government. Where the word “dimension” is proposed, replace it with the word “volume”. And in the word, the word "her" changes. I understand and share your problems with the letter "I", indeed in the economy and in the life of the country, it is already gaining critical size, but that should have affected the content of your document, not the form. So you're going to answer three main questions, you're breaking the Constitution, you're breaking the budget code, you're not raising social standards. The Supreme Council voted twice for social standards. Therefore, distinguished colleagues, we ask you to proceed with the budgetary process. We are confident that the document we are discussing today can only be used in one capacity.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u178	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u179	As a macular.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u180	Zybenko Peter Stepanovich gives the right to speak to Alexandrovska Alli Alexandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, the Communist faction believes that the draft State Budget Act 2010 should be returned to the Government to bring it in accordance with the current Budget Code, the Ukrainian law recently adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which has significantly increased the subsistence minimum and minimum wage. I recall that the minimum pension should already be 573 bracelets today, but nothing has been done to make it a reality. The Communist faction requires that this vital law for the State be based on real macro-indicators to take into account the real level of inflation, the real price of gas, and the real rate of the bracelet. Unfortunately, this draft law has nothing to do with it, and therefore it is not worth mentioning that someone will support unrealistic plans. It may also be recalled that the draft State Budget Act for 2010 continues to violate the Ukrainian Constitution when it is given the right of the Government to limit social benefits and benefits. We have never agreed or agreed to that. The Communist faction presented its proposal for a draft budget for 2010. And we will demand that the Government take them into account when revising the budget. This relates to a significant increase in State guarantees for strategically important enterprises in Ukraine. The list of such enterprises is determined by the Government itself and we have reminded the Government once again. We want guarantees to be given to enterprises of 10 billion dollars of bracelets, no less. We insist that at least 10 billion dollars be allocated to the budget for the return of citizens, and people await this, and the Government must live up to its promises. We will demand that the law on the status of children of war be implemented. We demand that the practice of restricting social payments be excluded by the decision of the Government. And we propose that, as of 1 January, monthly targeted assistance to pensioners for the acquisition of medicines be introduced much more than the Government proposes. The Communist faction insists that the funds for senior officials and the maintenance of their apparatus be not more than the same amount as for 2009. The savings we receive must be channelled to social programmes. We have expressed our proposals and, unfortunately, they are not taken into account by the budgetary committee, that funding for measures to protect, restore and increase the fertility of soil, the main wealth of Ukraine, should be renewed. Substantive support must be provided to the agro-industry complex and housing and utilities. The main thing is to ensure the effective work of State enterprises, which create the basic wealth of our State. Wage debt must be eliminated and the Government must take substantial steps in that regard. These tasks must be met, including.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u182	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u183	These tasks must be met, including the State Budget Act 2010 and the Communist faction will require this to be done. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u184	Vetwicki Dmitry Alexanderovich. Please, National Deputy Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u185	Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the Timoshenko Yulia Block. Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! We all need to understand today that we are virtually not accepting the budget. We're criticizing it today, we're making proposals today, this is what we did in the budget committee during the month that came up with over 1,300 proposals and observations, they came from both the Court of Auditors, and from our Legal Office, they're all systematized in this document, which is called "Vysnovy" and these conclusions we have to vote today to send to the government to actually make a more sophisticated, more realistic budget for the second reading. If there is such a desire for all, we must support those proposals that the Committee on Budgets has been working on. I'll tell you what, and I'm going to ask that even those speeches that are today from the Supreme Council rostrum have been added to these conclusions and are also addressed to the government. I think that the government is given the right time, and then everything will be done so that, when it does, it will come up here, then, we can vote -- we can vote for every chapter, for every proposal, and even every deputy can insist on voting for a proposal in a room that will be adopted and incorporated into the law. This needs to be fully understood. To me, I'm sure you've all figured out that all of these observations, the proposals formed in 44 paragraphs or sections. There are 5 sections of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, Thus, we commit the government to actually improve the code, the budget, taking into account the elements of the codex, since it is in the perceived but it is dedicated by the President — practically incapacitated. That is, he has no legal power, so we wrote in a special line on the budget committee: “to comply with the existing budget code”. As far as social standards are concerned, I want to say that these social standards were adopted earlier than the budget itself, which is presented and presented in the Supreme Council. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u186	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u187	One single point we're going to assign to the government: to reconcile this question as the government plans, to the second reading, to show us how it's going to meet these standards. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u188	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyevich gives the right to play by Mr. Alexander Vilenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u189	Dear friends, well, the head of the budget committee was somehow trying to explain the idea itself, which, by using the budget committee when he made his proposals, might not have highlighted the situation in which the budget committee had to work. In order to take this decision, we had to make a huge effort to gather a quorum on the committee, and these were representatives of the three factions of BUT, our Ukraine People's Self-Defense, and the faction of Lithuania, and the representatives of the Communists, the four factions, I'm sorry. And it turns out that the Party of Regions didn't take part in that, and now it's making proposals on how to account for it. All that needs to be taken into account by national deputies, including committees and factions, are offered in their proposals. What decision did the budget committee make? Take into account in your proposals all the proposals made by the national MPs and entrust the government with considering them and balancing them. That's the first one. The other one. We're being challenged, well, where does the Income Minimum Act mean, wages and so on. And it's written down, it's written down, including that we'd take into account the possible changes that have taken place in the projections of macroeconomic indicators. Whether or not the projections are changing. Of course, each month, changes in projections change because the closer we get to any other planning period, the more accurate our projections are. The forecast cannot be accepted in August and will be the same in November. Obviously, since we did not adopt this law early in October in the first reading, it is obvious that if we vote now, there will be other prognosis indicators, including for the second reading. If we accept it in the second reading, not now, but in a month or so later, there will certainly be other indicators. And, Alexander Volodymyrovich, I want to tell you what was meant by the committee when it was written "to balance the accounting of the law". This means before that law, which the government is forecasting is 100 billion dollars for the next year, but you have to find this 100 billion. There are two ways to find them: or throw something away, but I want to tell you that the budget was based on other laws, and they need to be implemented, too. There's got to be funding -- education laws, Chernobyl laws and so on, and so on, and so on. They're no less important than what we've taken for a living minimum. So to balance it out is to find money. And finding money means that all of this is going to have to be provided, either additional sources of funding, or something to shorten, or not to finance everything. And we'll take that with you in the second reading. But if we don't accept it now, then we have a second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u190	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u191	so the second reading just won't work and we won't have anything to work on. I mean, who's voting against the committee's conclusions now, not against the budget in the first reading, but it's the committee's conclusions that have taken all the proposals into account, that's actually going to shut down the budget process this year and dump the country for a few months next year without a budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u192	People’s deputies Tkac and Kulczynski hand over the right to speak to the national deputy Kirilenko Viácheslav Anatoliyovich. Please, six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u193	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine! ” Madam Prime Minister, not in the government's bed. Dear ministers, including the NS-NS quota, are not in the government's bed. Dear two government officials and present in bed! Deputies! Dear voters! I can't help but feel that both the socio-economic development programme and the 2010 budget project are kind of phantoms that seem to be but aren't really there. Well, judge for yourselves. The government doesn't care. He's gone and he won't be here today, at least. The opposition pretends to believe that the government will take full account of the increasing social standards voted in Parliament. The government appears to be concerned about this issue, and in fact, it has long since decided to pay off these increases in pensions and salaries because it has long approved its 1/12 decision of 1 January of the following year 2010. So now we're talking about things that are virtual, because even the decision of the budget committee is also supposed to be, but it doesn't seem to be. Because he's been meeting twice, first time, 11 deputies, second time, 13, and only 33. So, your honorary colleagues, or you have to close this whole thing down here, at least until the end of the presidential campaign's second round, or you have to do serious things and take responsibility for your vote. Therefore, the group “For Ukraine!” will act in a spirit of responsibility for what at least we can offer. That's why we asked the Prime Minister that the costs that we think are strategic for the Ukrainian State are included in the text of the State Budget for 2010. We're talking about defense spending, security spending, humanitarian spending, foreign policy spending and other strategic orientations, without which the Ukrainian State itself will be at risk in 2010. There is no answer to any of our suggestions. I don't think it will be for the reasons I've already mentioned. We all know that the budget proposed to the Ukrainian military next year is only a budget for cash maintenance, just food and not the best and just the payment of utilities. At any other expense, the entire next year the Ukrainian army will be unable. Because the Prime Minister and the government don't care. I think the opposition is indifferent, because there's nothing anyone can say about it. The same can be said of a foreign direction. We open the budget, we read: “enlargement of the Ukrainian property network abroad, 45,000 dollars”. Colleagues, let's just count our wages, so that the Ukrainian state will increase the prestige of its presence in the world. Besides, our diplomats don't know where the money for treating the brothers comes from, and they don't know where they're going to work. The government says 45,000 dollars is enough for you for the entire year 2010. I gave just one example because he is eloquent, but we give such examples to 23 principal officials. Here is the official address of the parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” which we believe may be the minimum basis for us to start discussing the decision to support such a budget. I also met with the Prime Minister personally. He was talking about the Ukrainian army. “Yes, yes, yes,” - three times was said. “No, no, no,” we see in the documents. So they're trying to trick us one more time? Why don't we push the buttons here?Oh, my God! It won't happen. For the first time, we didn't press the button to send a document to the government. We are pleased to inform you that this time the parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” has made a draft decree on the government's return to work on this extremely short draft of the 2010 Budget. And this is our consolidated position that will now be demonstrated. All the possibilities of a different belief of the government and the government have been exhausted. When we see this budget as a direct effort to destroy the Ukrainian army, to destroy the Ukrainian humanitarian sphere, to strike directly at foreign policy, in other strategic areas of the Ukrainian state, we cannot support such a document. Why there is no answer to any question, it is a mystery to us. Just like the mystery is why here, again, for the national money, we're sitting and discussing a program called economic and social development, in which there's only letters, and there's no idea and no political will to do it. What macroindicators?Oh, my God! For example, we are offered in the budget, if even the budget committee says, a respected government, please determine the dollar's rate for 2010, because it is unclear, please determine the price of Russian gas for 2010, because it is not clear, well, and please identify all the basic macro-indicators in this regard. Colleagues, so what's the budget if we don't have any fundamental figures on which any real expenses can be calculated? It's a propaganda that, in a case like the previous document, an economic and social development programme, can't be supported. We believe that these recent approaches do not withstand any criticism from the government. We will abstain from serious political conclusions right now, but today we are giving the government one more chance to make a project that will serve not the leaders who go to the Presidents, but the independent Ukrainian state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u194	Dear friends, Jemelev.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u195	Mustafa Jamilev, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” faction, the Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people. During the discussion of the Ukrainian National Budget project on October 8, one of the deputies said in the sense that Prime Minister Timoshenko would play with the Crimean Tatars the day before the presidential election and therefore send the sum of funds to the budget for their installation while there are no such funds for other nationalities. Actually, it's the other way around. First, the draft budget does not contain articles and expenditures with a national sign. It is a budgetary arrangement for the implementation of programmes for the deportees of the Soviet people to return to their homeland, including, of course, Crimean Tatars, which make up about 98 percent of all returnees in Ukraine. These programs are designed and approved by the Kabmin for reasons known to the State for not being able to return the returnees illegally confiscated during their deportation of property, homes, apartments, and land, but are obliged to solve their social problems. The programs that are being developed do not provide for the resolution of all the problems of returnees, and they are designed to do so. funds that allow only to be removed or mitigated by the most acute problems. But in the last two years, there has been much less funding available for these goals than the programmes approved by the Cabinet, resulting in a multimillion - dollar debt to construction organizations for work already done. For example, in 2009, only 53 million dollars were available in the budget instead of the 100 million dollars planned by the program. True, another 53 million are promised from the stabilization fund, but to date, even the projected 53 million dollars received only 25 million dollars, or only 45 percent. For 2010, the deportees programme provides for a set of 124 million dollars, with an undetermined budget of 227 million dollars in the previous few years. But in the draft budget we see only 3.5 million dollars. These funds are not even enough to preserve buildings that have already been built, a. as a result.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u196	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u197	Such disregard of the legal rights of deported persons can lead to the fact that returnees with full grounds and relying on international law may begin to demand the return of illegally taken during the deportation of movable and immovable property. It's like this. It's hardly worth commenting on. The Human Rights and International Relations Committee, having considered at its meeting the draft State Budget for 2010, unanimously concluded that the budget for the deportees programme should be increased to 227 million dollars. Without these changes, I will obviously not vote on this budget, which I also call for our faction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u198	Makinko Vladimir Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u199	That's what's gonna happen! Dear National Deputies! The budgetary conclusions presented by the Committee on Budgets on a number of occasions testify to the real anti - Ukrainian, anti - Ukrainian face of the perpetuation. This document invites us to accept the government's budget, which leads the country into a chasm, stimulates the further impoverishment of citizens, increases territorial disparities, deepens economic stagnation and destroys the national producer. The absence of proposals with financial support for industry, the agrarian complex, indicates a complete misunderstanding by the governing coalition, that only through the work of the real sector can an increase in the income of the budget be achieved as a result of the performance of state-run functions, including social ones. The draft budget, as in the budget conclusions, does not fully lack proposals to implement crisis measures aimed at supporting sectors of the economy whose implementation will contribute to economic growth in 2010. The second year in a row, the agricultural sector is without budgetary support. At the same time, the government does not forget the results of the 2008 agri-industrial complex, which is based on financial support from the government of Yanukovic. In the current year as a result of the lack of budget support for agriculture at the end of 2008 and early 2009 the quality and yield of the harvest is much lower. Last Sunday, the Prime Minister told the villagers that she lacked authority to improve the lives of farmers. I have a question: who prevents the financing of existing programmes to support domestic agriculture, which have been largely funded by the State Budget this year? As a result, only 900 tractors were collected in the Ukrainian companies in 10 months, while some 4,000 tractors were collected in the Januković government during that period. Your production has been cut by more than four times. The same is true of other types of hydrotechnics. In 2010, the government did not even promise to improve the situation. From the general agricultural fund, 20 percent less planned expenditure is planned than in 2009. If the proposed budgetary conclusions are accepted today, the coal sector will also remain, in fact, without the financial support of the State. In fact, the State recommends that mines finance their needs on their own. The government has designed that coal programs should be financed by the following. It's done to make it. In order for a substantial financial resource to be concentrated by the government in a stable fund. In 2010, it's increasing from 19 billion to 26 billion dollars, but it's very wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u200	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u201	On the basis of the foregoing, we are deeply convinced that we cannot accept the budget conclusions offered. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u202	Sebravsky Paul Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, each budget has its own name, and when I was looking at this budget, I think, what does it remind me of? And it's like trying to run between the dots and not get wet. And it has nothing to do with the main financial constitution for the whole year. Of course, it's only Minfin that it's Minfin's fault, that they've created such a budget, that it's impossible to budget. And, of course, it's fair to say that they're dividing this little bit of caftan, they're pulling from there -- there's the nakedness, there's the nakedness. Both by the army, by social expenditure, by the village, and by other areas that need to be supported, there are problems and underfunding just on the verge of critical. It is today that this law on budget cannot be adopted. But there's never going to be going to be going on about not having any money in the budget, and never, my friends, will be. Without a real economy, there will never be money in the budget. This year, we increased our government debt from 80 billion dollars to 230 billion dollars. I'm told that America made two trillion shows, Europe made two trillion shows. But, my friends, where was this issue headed? It wasn't meant to close the budget holes, and they were focused on the game of the economy and already with the money they made they started paying social standards, they started paying wages and everything. We've been waiting for this crisis, we've been looking at it for a year, and it's going to help us, and I've already talked about it. Of course, the exit from the recession of the world economy also helps Ukraine to cope with the crisis quietly, but no steps in the budget in terms of socio-economic development in the game of the Ukrainian economy are taken by the government. And there will never be enough money for a decent life for the Ukrainian people, because the economy will not work, there will be no jobs, there will be no taxes, there will be no normal social standards. I am convinced that the budget, which is set up in breach of the Constitution, is in breach of the Budget Code with non-compliance with other laws. Once again, I would like to emphasize: The Social Standards Act may not like it, but it is the law. This budget cannot be voted on in the first reading. I'm being told that we don't have the right and that we have to vote on the budget code in an article right now. Friends, you've violated more than laws and codes, you've violated the Constitution of Ukraine. Because of this. The Supreme Council, as the classic said, may be all, and the Supreme Council in this case should, simply, be destined to send for work, because no matter how much you draw, there will be nothing. This budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u204	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u205	This budget cannot be worked out, it needs to be redesigned from top to bottom, and before that, the Ministry of Economics has to approve the economy plan for Ukraine. Only then can the Budget Law be considered in a professional way. And then we will not drag on any political power, but we will work for the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u206	The Chechtov People's Deputy hands over the right to speak to Akima's Irina Mikhailny.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u207	Dear colleagues, there have been several external debt figures today, and I would like to draw your attention to the philosophy, the debt philosophy proposed by the document called “the draft budget”. Philosophy is very simple: let's do more, let's do as much as the Cabinet of Ministers does without the control of the Supreme Council, what we're going to do, we're going to put on private pockets. Why is that? Let's look at the state debt dynamics over the past 1.5 years: debt has tripled. Next year, from 36 per cent of GDP, it is proposed to increase it to 45 per cent. Service costs are also increasing at an astronomical rate. Today, the President of the Court of Auditors presented this figure. The service of external debt will go to a lot more money than it does to the economy. What's most interesting is that when the Government of Timoshenko and the money are no longer trusted abroad, there is a wager on the growth of domestic debt. The excellent papers, known as the AWGZ, have already been released for more than 80 billion, with a release of 120 billion next year. They will be purchased by the National Bank, and inflation will be on the shoulders of the Ukrainian population. The Government of Timoshenko proposes to continue to build a debt pyramid in the internal market next year in order to turn Ukraine into Argentina and lead it to an internal default. State guarantees are issued. State guarantees are issued for opaque, unclear programmes, and result is one: the Ukrainian debt burden is approaching $1,000 per person. Give it to the Ukrainian people. Money doesn't go into the economy. There is no investment support, there is no support for consumer demand. NAK Naftegaz in debt as in silk. The pension fund is on the verge of its own financial default. The money is placed in the pockets and went to Mrs. Timoshenko's election campaign, and the debt is rising. Which suggests, once again, that the draft budget in 2010 should be drawn to your attention. Let us allow the Cabinet of Ministers to set the level of public debt in Ukraine. Let's let them do whatever they want. I don't think that kind of public debt philosophy is acceptable. Together with the budget, we must see with you the medium-term debt-servicing programme and its gradual reduction. Only this can be an argument in favour of the consideration of a document called the 2010 budget. I think our opinion is one thing. Today, there is no way to view the 2010 budget as a serious document. It must be returned to the Cabinet of Ministers, not for further development, but for development.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u208	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u209	I have concluded that it must be returned to the Cabinet of Ministers in order for the 2010 budget to be reprepared.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u210	National Deputy Grigorovitch is transferring the right to speak to the National Deputy of Arjevetina.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u211	Deputies! I would like to remind you that the budget is first of all specific figures that I'm going to talk about, so I'm not going to talk about philosophy and other things. Obviously, the consumer price index, or the inflation rate, which is written in the draft of this paper with a diflator of 22.2 percent, is just at least two or three times too low. When it comes to the reality of VAT revenue, which is up to 120 billion, which is 26 billion more than this year, I think it's in these market conditions, I don't think it's a real number, and it's even planned to reduce VAT damages next year. The trade balance shown in the budget plus $1.8 billion at the National Bank estimate minus 0.2, I don't think that's a real number either. An unrealistic and exchange rate of 7.5 per cent at the national bank's average budget of 9.2 per cent. The income of the State budget in crisis conditions, given the negative trends we have this year, the projected increase of almost 20 percent, that is to say 50 billion. I think it's a major overstatement. Among other things, you can only get this revenue in one case if we triple the inflation rate, so we're going to triple it. If that's what the drafters are counting on, I think it's an anti-Ukrainian position. Income tax, which should also be increased by 25 percent compared to 2009, is not a real indicator. The direct budget deficit is almost 50 billion dollars, and if you take the state guarantees in the budget, 45 billion dollars, the quasi deficit can reach 120-140 billion, 10-12 percent of GDP. And what's important, covering this deficit, is almost 100 billion, is planned for domestic borrowing. The question is, which is why, if this is due to the purchase of securities by the National Bank, what we are already doing actively this year, we can figure out what is expected to be the level of inflation of our Ukrainians. If this sum is removed from the real economy, we can understand what will happen to our businesses that will remove these from circulation. Of course, counting 10 billion from the National Bank, I think everyone understands, and so on and so forth. I was trying to find out what my suggestions were about the socio-economic development of the Zakartat region, and I found nothing. Although I understood the problem of coming to the budget, I made a proposal solely for those protected programs that made the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers. These are floods, which are counterproductive as a result of a natural disaster, all come from the Carpathians with shovels before television when a natural disaster occurs, but then they are forgotten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u212	Thank you. The discussion is over. Final word Mikola Ivanovich Derkac. There's no need. Let's move on to decision-making. Please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the Ukraine Supreme Council Resolution on Approval of Conclusions and Proposals for a Draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2010. [[Registration number 5000]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:42:37]] For-189 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Code of Budgets, after the proposed conclusions of the Committee of Budgets are generally not accepted, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is obliged to move on to the adoption of each item that has been proposed for consideration. [[B in m in s a l in]] Would you like to improve the budget code right now? Oh, no? Are we going to improve the rules of the Supreme Council? Oh, no? Please sign in from the procedure for further consideration. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u213	Yuri Carmazin. God knows who to give the word to. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Article 41 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, which is probably before you, provides for the second part: “the opinions and proposals are voted on in general”. If not accepted, an article vote will take place. An article discusses suggestions that the committee proposes to reject and that the authors insist on. But the committee did not make a decision on any of the thousands of amendments that were to be taken into account and rejected. So what you've now voted against, you've only done is that now it'll all come back to the budget committee, it won't come back to the government, read the budget code. That's why, I think we're doing it wrong, we can't break any of the requirements of the Budget Code, which is the law. What's interesting is that we're criticizing that the government is violating something, and we say give us laws and codes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u214	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u215	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues! Last time we did not vote in favour of this budget, the last time we had to send it to the Government, because it does not correspond to modern economic realities, it does not remove the country from the crisis, it further impoverishes the country and the loss of economic independence. The attempt to continue the second time today, she again gave an objective assessment on the board, when even 200 votes were not cast and even a coalition in the minority voted. So let us not delay; we have many other questions. It is necessary to proceed to decisions that have been made alternatively, which indeed give an objective assessment of the bill. Please put to the vote alternative drafts of the ruling on today's consideration of the matter. Vote and put a stop to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u216	National Deputy Kamchatny, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u217	Kamchatya, Yulia Timoshenko, Kharkiv district. Please give the floor to an outstanding expert in the budgetary process, Láško Oleg Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u218	Thank you, Valery Grigorovich, for the kind words addressed to our political power. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, this is exactly what the previous speakers said about it, and you rightly said that according to the 41 articles of the Budget Code there should be an article discussion, and we have all these amendments, thousands of amendments to discuss, vote, etc. As for the colleagues who say let's go back to the government. Dear colleagues, article 39 of the Code of Budget provides for a rejection of the bill during its presentation. Today we have a first-reading procedure, not a presentation. This procedure does not provide for the return of the government or the rejection of the bill. But there is a compromise option, Alexander Volodymyrovich, perhaps in order not to consider this thousand amendments and not work on them for a month.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u219	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u220	By the end of the year, not working on them because the country needs a budget. We have registered with the Supreme Council a draft regulation on the creation of a working group of the Supreme Council that is working with representatives of these factions, composed of government representatives, who are to finalize proposals for all deputies, and propose them for consideration by the committee so that it can re-conclusions for consideration by the Supreme Council. I think that's the compromise that's going to let us get out of this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u221	Sebravsky Paul Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u222	Dear colleagues, considering a thousand amendments won't do any good. If we put all thousands of amendments to the vote now, it will break everything and lead to nothing. As a result, we can certainly spend time and put to the vote and go according to the budget code. However, the Committee on Budgets, which approved the conclusions, and today it was clear in the Hall that the philosophy itself, the fundamental things of this Law on Budgets, do not correspond to reality. Because of this, neither the working group nor anything can do. This budget needs to be changed completely, completely different principles, and all the other fundamental things are going to happen. And that's why the government has to take it back and present for two or three weeks a new bill, the Budget Act, and then we'll consider it. We're ready to work as long as it takes, we're ready to do work groups and anything, but this budget, I'm stressing again, it's impossible to work on, it needs to be done again.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u223	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u224	For this reason, there are two draft decrees for the adoption of the Budget for Government Development Act. I would like to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u225	Instead of the National Deputy of Skini, the National MP of Samofal is speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u226	Dear colleagues, right now you've all said all the problems to yourself, and I want our voters to understand why the faction of the Party of the Regions did not vote in favour of this draft decree. Here's the thing, we've got soldiers, today's Ukrainian Army captain's family, who's on permanent duty, gets 2,000 bracelets, divides by four, an officer lives below the poverty line today, that's the only person in Ukraine who gives power, gives. Give your mother's life if you need it. [[does not work for a wife and two children]] You can't vote for that. Take medicine. On the Health Committee, 800,000 Ukrainians died last year. We have programmes of the State for the prevention of vascular diseases, the fight against cancer, AIDS and so on. No money is added to public programmes today. May I vote in favour of such an order today? Therefore, the Party of the Regions has made the right decision to have the Government come to the Committee of Budgets and considers it its responsibility, not the people's. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u227	Thank you. We exchanged thoughts. I want to tell you what we have. I'm sorry, time for the procedure is over. We have both the Budget Code, and the Rules as to how this is to be done, and I don't think anyone can deny that it says that in case of disapproval in general, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is moving on to an article-by-article consideration of all proposals. Is there any objection to that?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u228	There is no such objection. It is also stated in the Code of Budgets and in the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that those amendments that are not taken into account in the drafting of the conclusions of the Committee on Budgets of Ukraine are the first to vote, if the national deputies who submitted them insist. Didn't I make a mistake? That's the way it is. That's why I want to ask the national MPs of Ukraine right now. Are there Ukrainian national deputies who have made their proposals for the conclusion of the budget committee and their proposals are not taken into account by the budget committee, and they insist on their consideration in the session room? Are there any deputies? Are there any deputies? If there are no such deputies, there is nothing to prevent us from considering the proposals that the committee recommends to take into account each proposal, as required by the Budget Code and the Rules. Is there no objection? None. Please, Alla Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u229	Dear colleagues, let's finally know what's going on in the hall. We all have a so-called parallel table with about a thousand amendments to the people's deputies, committees, factions and so on. There is no amendment to the conclusions of the budget committee, as required by the Budget Code. The table on the left indicates the text of the draft Budget Act, then indicates the amendment of the People's Deputy, Faction or Committee, and the right-hand side should be the one supported by the Budget Committee. It's not there. The budgetary conclusions that are at our fingertips. These budget conclusions take into account, if I'm not mistaken, the number, about 30-40 amendments, well, you see the number in your hands of the document, but not 800, but not 900, not 1000. And there is only one phrase that the budget committee proposes these proposals from the deputies, factions and committees to give to the Government for consideration. What kind of account?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u230	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u231	Unfortunately, the procedure was violated in the Supreme Council at first, when we failed and did not reject the draft Law on Gosbudget and it remained under the auspices of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That is why we see a conflict in this situation. And a number of deputies, a number of factions have found their way out, and we have proposed that a substantial State Budget Act be recast, because everyone knows, and the Government has agreed that this draft Law is written on the non-existent Budget Code. This document itself is contrary to the basic document, which shows how the Budget Act is being drafted and how it is adopted. We cannot consider it, and therefore I propose to support the regulations proposed by this document, the draft State Budget Act, to return to the Government for substantial revision and introduction of the new draft State Budget Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u232	National MP Griesenko, please. I'm begging you now. Just give me a second to say it. I see that we have different approaches to voting on amendments. Since we have a clear norm in the Code of Budgets, no one can deny it, we are now obliged to vote on the amendments. Since no one insists on them, we have in our hands those recommended by the committee. We are all obliged to go through them so that there will be no further questions. Now, please, we have five more minutes to exchange our thoughts. Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u233	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are in a situation where there is no easy way out. I'd like to make it clear why we're in this situation because the government has introduced a document that goes against the Constitution, the Budget Code and the laws. That's the first one. This situation needs to be rectified now. If we formally follow the articles that the chairman rightly pointed to, we will not get out of this situation. Nevertheless, the decision is responsible. Obviously, I think to the chairman that there are over 226 votes that now support the return of this document to the government that actually caused this situation. Let's proceed by conscience, let's put this to a vote. There are decisions that offer this. That's the decision. Someone declares him illegal, let him go to court later. But at least the government will be working on a new version of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u234	Please, National Deputy Sas.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u235	Thank you. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! Today, the draft State Budget Act for 2010 is on the agenda, and it is further noted that it is being considered in the first reading. Alexander Volodymyrovich, you're absolutely right. It is necessary to act clearly in accordance with the rules of the Budget Code and in accordance with article 157 of the Rules. [[Part 2 Article 41]] A vote should be taken, and every proposal made by the Budget Committee should be considered. If the proposals are not supported, the budget will result. This appropriation is The budget is balanced, then, according to article 157, part 14, the only thing the Supreme Council can do is send the bill to the budget committee for re-reading. The other options are neither the budget code nor the rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u236	Please, Hellhound Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u237	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, I think you have taken on an ungrateful and unappreciative matter to try to return to the legitimate field the matter which has long since emerged from it. We cannot deal with this issue today in the first or in any form of reading. Let us return to the point where we have considered this issue, whether it is in accordance with the Budget Code or not. There were two proposals. One is that it has 204 votes, and the other doesn't match, it has 204 votes. This question then depends on the budget space. And we had no right to move on until we decided on the main course. It is in conformity with the Budget Code or is not in conformity. Therefore, any attempt to consider today on first reading is a violation. There's only one option: either ours with Alexandrovsky and Zebravski or Kirilenko and Leapina. You have two bills. What are the other options?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u238	Dear colleagues, I see that on the way up we have more and more hands. Now those who asked: Kirilenko Viácheslav Anatoliyovich, Lyasko Oleg Valeriovich. We have two minutes. Please, Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u239	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine!” This is because these non-contacts, because the government both in content and form ignores the opinion of the electorate, because the MPs represent the electorate in this room, at least they have to do so. The budget code, which was adopted and dedicated by the President, did not take effect, which was the basis of the 2010 budget bill. If we take this form, it means that no rural budget, village budget, city budget, and all the other 12,000 budgets will get a single copy, because these actions will be accused by someone, for example, in the Constitutional Court, and there will be a collapse, including the financing of the local self-government system. The sociostandards have accepted it, like it or not, they're accepted, so we have to take it into account in part, completely, but we have to take it into account. Also absent, they may be accused, and there will be no old pensions or new pensions. And the third. Was there a quorum on the budget committee? I wasn't. Before that, Parliament had approved a decision to take on this budget? I didn't get it. So all the changes that are made are virtual. And that's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u240	I want to. Viacheslav Anatoliyovich, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u241	Dear colleagues, there are some concerns here, but they just never want to know the truth. The question is that these thousands of amendments have been made, which means that the deputies are divided into two classes: some who have implemented the law and have not amended it; and others who have decided to amend it, despite the fact that the budget will not be accepted by Parliament. That's why the budget code in this particular case does not work, and we can vote on the draft regulations made by the deputies for the recasting of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u242	Lyszko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u243	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, reverend Viacheslav Anatolyevich, you do not have reliable information. A meeting of the Budget Committee took place yesterday. Of the 33 national deputies there were 18-19 people present, the quorum was, the decisions were taken, and a draft decision on the approval of the conclusions proposed by the budgetary committee. This is a real document, not a virtual document. And now, essentially. Respectable. Dear colleagues, about the comments that are echoing. In a draft decree, which you unfortunately did not support, the government has been asked to make proposals to take into account the provisions of the Law of 20 October “On the establishment of a minimum of living and minimum wage”. You didn't support it. There is also a mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers to take account of the current provisions of the Budget Code when working on the draft law, and you have not supported it. So all the comments you're making, the budget committee took into account and proposed to support the government's work. You didn't support it. So the only way to do that is to move around, and there's no other way.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-11-19-m0.u244	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue our consideration of the issue of the conclusions of the Budget Committee for the State Budget project for 2010 after considering the appointment and release of judges. The morning plenary session is closed.
