ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:41]] The 407 National Deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies, today our colleagues ’ birthday: Kruk Yuri Borisovich, Sandler Dmitr Mihajlovich and King Oleg Anatoliyovich, let us welcome our colleagues, our desire for good health, our success in work, and our lives. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, the summary of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 19 to 22 May 2009: six plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine were held, and 83 issues of the agenda were considered. As a result of the review: 25 laws and 24 decrees were passed, 26 bills were adopted on the basis of one bill for re-reading to the committee, 8 bills were returned to the committee for re-reading, 18 bills and 7 draft regulations were rejected, the President's veto was overturned by one law, and 71 parliamentary requests were announced and sent to the relevant institutions. In accordance with article 25 of the Rules, honourable national deputies have 30 minutes on Tuesday for statements by authorized factions with proposals, announcements, and messages. Please record statements from factions. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. Lilia Grigorovich, faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense". Mikola Volodymyrovich Martinenko, please. Next is Michael Schershung.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u2	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The economic crisis remains the main topic, but I will allow myself to rephrase the Bulgarian professor Prezobrzeński: the crisis, first and foremost, in the heads of politicians. The people, our fellow citizens, they're fine with the situation. Yeah, it's not easy, which is why it takes more work to fix it, to make it easier for family, friends, the state, and less thread, like everything is bad, because two things are going to come out of the crisis -- hard work and hope for the better. According to sociologists, the level of anxiety caused by the crisis has declined. In the mid - 1930 ’ s, a quarter fewer people believe that the situation in the country has worsened. Instead, nearly a quarter of the population appreciates the situation as stable, and more than 10 percent think it is improving. The consumer mood index has been growing for three months in a row. However, some of our politicians are clearly lacking in adequacy, drawing apocalyptic pictures of the present and the future. At times, it may seem, however, that the Ukrainians are not afraid of these scarecrows. Indeed, most people have a crisis in their heads. It's when, instead of voting for anti-crisis laws, the parliamentary rostrum is blocked, and then the same deputies won't work another week to make up for what's lost. Enough panic and tension in society, we have a busy job ahead of us, more than 100 different drafts in the agenda of the Supreme Council this week. But I would like to focus on parliamentary hearings on budgetary policy for 2010. This year, analysts believe, will become the year of Ukraine's exit from the economic crisis, but it will not happen in itself, and one of the main factors behind the crisis is the rational use of budgetary resources. It provides a software-target approach to their distribution. As head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, I want to focus more on the energy problems that need to be reflected in the 2010 State Budget. Without their solution, we will not provide people and businesses with energy and heat, nor will we open up prospects for energy development. Long overdue reform of the system of compensation for the difference in energy prices and residential services provided by these energy carriers. Next. The budget is to be placed on the shoulders of the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz Ukraine to secure gas in underground vaults. Funding for the necessary amount of coal for electricity is also a problem. the quantity. And this form of support for the national coal industry is far more effective than direct budget subsidies. Even more problematic is the situation of government investment in the increase in Ukrainian oil and gas production. Everyone's focused on the transits of other people's energy carriers and rarely mentions their own. For any state, and Ukraine is no exception, the development of its own nuclear fuel cycle is a strategic task, and it needs centralised funding. I hope that the above-mentioned PEKU will become a priority in parliamentary hearings. This week, Parliament is also scheduled to consider the draft Industrial Safety Act. It's too important. In the country, high levels of industrial trauma, including fatalism, are particularly related to coal and gas industries, the construction of energy companies. The Supreme Council is to adopt a whole draft law on anti-corruption and anti-corruption rules, to consider the whole package of other anti-corruption decisions. The settlement of disagreements over the management of held property was long overdue. In particular, it is necessary to clearly identify the subjects of such an administration and to clarify their authority. Another important bill is to organize an enabling system to improve the investment climate. It is not a secret that our bureaucrats, using the imperfections of permissive legislation, beat up investors and scare them away from Ukraine. All of this is just a small part of what needs to be accepted in the Supreme Council. Let us be guided by the principle: fewer scarecrows, fewer political slogans, more real things. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u3	Mikola Shershun, Lithuanian Block faction. Dmitry the Smoker will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u4	Mikola Shershun, “Block Lithuania”. Dear Head, honourable colleagues and dear voters, if today we pay attention to what the media are saying, it seems that in our country, apart from political disputes and the question of who, who, who, and when, and how much such unification will be moral, there are simply no other problems. And it's not the press's fault, journalists write what politicians say. And politicians often engage in politics, forgetting what they promised by going to elections. Many promises were made: decent wages, decent jobs, decent living conditions. They promised to save the village and restore the national shrines, but when they found themselves in management chairs, they soon forgot what they had promised. As an example, let me give you an example of the situation that took place in the Plains. It's about supporting small business, creating jobs. There the issue of amber production has been unmovable for many years. Today, only 2 tons of amber are extracted from official data, although the project’s capacity allows for the conversion of up to 5 tons of raw material per year. At the same time, 20 tons are illegally exported to Poland, where amber businesses work together and generate profits for both people and the state. What prevents us from doing what our neighbors do? Insufficient funding? No, for there is no need for additional funds to address this issue. Simply by removing bureaucratic barriers, drilling will provide, firstly, additional revenue to the budget, and secondly, it will create new jobs. And here's the question: what doesn't allow the Minn Nature to finally develop a license order, including amber, and the Kabmin to approve it? This will enable people who have invested their own resources in the development of crops on legal grounds to get to work. At the same time, it will stop the barbaric destruction of the environment. This is also the case with the development of sand and roost careers. And you don't have to vote about the crisis and look for extra funds in the budget, you just need responsibility. The same is true of industry. For example, the chemical sector gives thousands of jobs to our citizens, but for a month now, because of political battalions, one of Ukraine's largest chemical enterprises, “EquineAzot”. Regardless of the agreement, this year the state changed the rules of the game and virtually prevents the enterprise from buying gas on favourable terms. That is why “EquineAzot”, where more than 5,000 people work, is forced to stop their power. We can't start the plant in the next few months, people will be sent away on unpaid vacations, and that is, as I said, more than 5,000 workers. What do they do for a living? At the same time, the Cleanhouses of “EquineAzota” are now working to clean the city’s sewers and to ensure the ecological security of the Plain. A proper stop in the industrial power of the enterprise will lead to an environmental disaster, and it will require billions of dollars to be eliminated. Not much better in the country. When the land was melted down, the peasants took the official job, which means the wages and expectations of retirement. The Lithuanian Block has repeatedly called for legislation that regulates the number of pensions they sell to farmers for milk, meat, and quotas for sugar beet production, giving priority to farmers. They didn't listen. The government declares support to peasants, reducing subsidies to villages and increasing taxes each year. Thus, from June 1, this year, the cost of the land will be tripled. The promise remains the promise of the restoration of national shrines. I am convinced that there is no one in the country who does not know or even hear of the Peressive Gospel. Today, three presidents of our nation have sworn allegiance to the people of Ukraine, and the village of Przesopnice, where this Holy Book was written, where foreign tourists come, has turned into no-needed population, there is no normal roads, and there is no infrastructure, nothing that allows the village to develop. History shows that in a state of neglect like this, there was only one time in the village after the Mongol-Tatar invasion. The difference is that the Tatars were inadvertent and they promised no one, and we, our own, put promises to the right and to the left. So, dear colleagues, we must admit that, very often because of a rather foolish political dispute, we forget the urgent problems and things that we are called upon to solve, problems that most people don't need, but only the understanding and cohesive work of Parliament, government, president. That's why the Lithuanian Blok faction urges everyone to engage in politics and finally start working for people and people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u5	Thank you. Dmitry Volodymyrovich Tobacco, faction of the Party of the Regions, will be followed by John Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u6	Dear colleagues and the distinguished President of the Supreme Council! I would like to draw your attention to the problem that depends, without exaggeration, on Ukraine's continued existence. The economic and political crisis has grown into a systemic crisis, and the question is now whether the country will continue or fall apart and lead to a historic end. It is clear that a fully balanced and conflicting power cannot overcome the crisis and propose measures without which the State is doomed. Since 2004, all political forces, all candidates to the Presidents, have not given up on the need to unite Ukraine, recognizing that there has been a rift. Experience in both presidential and parliamentary elections has shown that each time they blow society apart, they blow the country apart for years to come. The electorate is even more ideologies, and politicians are forced to consider themselves as voters, only to cast fields into the flames of the cold civil war. Today we have a historic chance to break the vicious circle of tension between East and West Ukraine. We have drugs from the most dangerous disease that destroys the entire state machinery. His name is a great coalition. In terms of the great coalition, I mean not only two-part education, as stated by the political outsiders, who label all conspirators. Of course, the Party of the Regions and the BET, as factions with a constitutional majority, must assume the primary responsibility to the electorate, to the country for overcoming the crisis, for the establishment of an effective coalition of its Government. But other factions of the Supreme Council must also be involved in such a coalition, and they must certainly be represented in the leadership of both the Parliament and the Government. This is important both for the consolidation of society and for the benefit of collusion. It might be possible to overlook the abuse of political losers who realize that their time has passed and who try for a month, even if they continue to be in politics for a day. It is not worth throwing pearls before the President's supporters who are willing to justify any violence by Yushchenko against the Constitution, any attempt to usurp power on his part, any threat to illegal referendums. They are people who are used to deceiving and imputing their own intentions to opponents and then scaring Ukrainian citizens with invented chimers. We have a duty to tell people the truth, only a great coalition can unite the country, can make the necessary changes to the Constitution, without which the effective work of the Government, without which the crisis cannot be overcome, is unthinkable. We have an obligation to convince people that the reform of Ukraine's State apparatus is necessary and the problem is not individual, although the inadequate action of the current President certainly gives the crisis a special edge. The entire history of an independent Ukraine is a permanent conflict between the Presidents and the Prime Ministers, in the end, all three presidents and almost two dozen Prime Ministers cannot be bad. The fact is that the two-headed executive system laid down in the Constitution is not functioning. The President is constantly trying to interfere with the Cabinet of Ministers and it is clear that this conflict will not be defeated until the Basic Law fully shares the powers and responsibilities of the President and the Prime Minister. A major coalition that can change the Constitution is a coalition of victory over the crisis and, I am sure, it is a great good thing. The Germans had never elected the President in post-war Germany, and the Belgians had not elected a king for 200 years, and yet any Ukrainian would dream that we would have courts working as in Germany and that social payments were equal to Belgian. Once again, the fundamental reform of the power system is not a redistribution of portfolios, as some would like to imagine, but rather a systematic change in the judiciary and electoral systems, and in particular economic measures: the development and adoption of a crisis programme that will guarantee the execution of all the responsible political forces, members of the great coalition. A detailed plan to save and restore the economy and to protect the most affected sectors of the population must be developed. Only hopeless outsiders can oppose this rescue plan, and every responsible politician must forget both party and career motives and do everything for an alliance that can be an alternative to increasing chaos. To overcome our own ambitions of mistrust is to take the lead in defeating the economic and systemic crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u7	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u8	Dear Head! Colleagues, dear voters! The end of May was marked by another hysteria of long - lived boredom and tiredness: betrayals, conspiracies, riots, coups, usurpations of power, and other horrors. This has already become a political sign of the country: there is nothing yet, and everyone is shaking and rehearsing. THE future is not just authorized to say so, but to calm down once more the many weights of diverse political slaves: don’t be afraid and don’t be in vain, nothing like that. But we have been, and will be, consistent supporters of a clear solution to the problems of the country's political system, which has exhausted itself for today, inhibits development and the economy, society, let alone the fight against today's threats and challenges. And for us, the main problem, as some want to present, is not in the powers between the President and the Prime Minister, although it is too important. To our profound belief, the cornerstone of the country's stable civil development must be a real power redistribution between the center and the territories for the benefit of the latter. The maximum of authority, authority and finance needs to be passed on to communities in the area, local authorities, and local governments. This is the main essence of our constitutional proposals, and our political power isn't the first time. An excellent example. A recent nationwide council with the heads of rural and rural councils. From the initiative of the head of government, Yulia Timoshenko, more than 10,000 village leaders have arrived in Kiev, caring for more than 70 percent of the country’s territory and more than a third of its population. This is indeed an unprecedented event in the history of Ukraine's independence. What was the main question raised by the villagers? It is that they are almost completely deprived of their rights, authority, and weights to do something useful for their fellow citizens. In fact, in urban heads there is a similar situation, similar to that of district councils and district councils, they have little solution. Because the vast majority of areas in the last few years have been directly dependent on Kiev — subsidies, subsidies, grants, and other central taxes. They are essentially deprived of their rights, and lawlessness gives rise to irresponsibility. And what's the result? Look around! Over the years, we've been turning into a European garbage dump, and everybody's pointing their finger at the center. The center gave no money, no resources, all responsibility, and everything else was transferred to the center, for today the lion’s share of the money earned is shipped to Kiev and only the small amount remains in place. And we think that the local authorities can do something about these bites? On the other hand, most of what you earn needs to be left in place, usually with responsibility. Otherwise, there will be no further interest in making money for the "uncle" and the economy will, of course, remain in the shadows. By the way, the wild tension of fighting for power in the center will go back in time, because now there is something to fight for. And remember, back in the early '90s, the State budget was ten times smaller, the inflation was crazy, the total was deficits and costs and resources. But there were at least laws restricting the activities of local authorities and management elites. So look at the statistics of those years, tens of them were introduced, not closed in areas that were separate in the operation of schools, kindergartens, clinics, hospitals, bridges and even metropolises, and clearly worked on the principle that was not prohibited, that was allowed, the money was sought in places, that was almost not addressed to Kiev because there was almost nothing to be decided on. Then what happened. They wrote a bunch of laws, centered everything possible and impossible, the situation led to absurdity, all the money drawn to Kiev, power to Kiev, authority to Kiev, authority to Kiev, and that as a result of the unprecedented scale of opposition, the struggle for streams, and places of struggle for survival, because everything has long been locked away from buying grain and the price of bread to the cave repair of roads, ambulances, and kindergartens. So unless it's a question of the center, of the colleagues, of whether or not it's time to dismantle the center from its own functions. That is why the Bellows spoke of a meeting that, according to the Prime Minister’s initiative, turned into an open meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers, and this was a sign that changes in the country would be built on modern civilised principles. This is also evident from the draft laws that were immediately passed by the government as a result of the meeting. So, dear friends, calm down, not the usurpation of BUT and its leader, Timoshenko, thinks about it, but finally with the joint efforts of the political forces and authorities of all levels to bring order to the country and to build its great future. Join us and don't be afraid! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u9	From the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u10	Respectable citizens! Dear colleagues! The notion of corruption and the power of Ukraine today cannot be divided; corruption is the essence of the oligarchic authority that serves the interests of large capital; and capital naturally pays generously in exchange for the services of the government of the presidential roof. Last week, the Communist people's deputies met actively with voters in the districts, and at each meeting, the most unfavorable words were addressed to the President, the Government, the local administrations, many specific facts of corruption, bribery on the ground. People hate power! There was widespread demand for determined action to bring to justice those responsible for the misery and poverty of millions. In support of these requirements, the Company requires that this week the issue of the exemption from the posts of Minister of Defence of Yehanurov, Justice of Onishuk, Education of Vakarczuk, Culture of Vukun be considered. At the same time, people understand very well who is in power. The vast majority of voters supported the proposal to amend the laws and demanded that the responsibility of top-level public officials for the crimes committed should be increased until the death penalty was imposed. The bill in question has been registered with us, and it entails the imposition of the death penalty for serious crimes such as murder, the destruction of State resources on a particularly large scale, the organization of criminal groups related to the slave trade, the trafficking of children, sexual slavery, drug trafficking, the illicit trade in arms and so forth. The punishment must be irresistible and adequate. This is what the people of Ukraine demand. It's done, stole a pound of sausage or a bottle of vodka -- got a deadline and stole a billion -- got the order out of the President's hands. And the more he stole, the higher the reward for such persons. All of this is against the background of impoverishment and the unfortunate exploitation of employed oligarchic capital. I recall that the Company has introduced a number of anti-crisis bills aimed at ensuring that the criminally illiterate economic policy is the responsibility of those who carry it out, i.e. the representatives of the oligarchic and nationalist authorities, led by Yushchenko, and not by Ukrainian citizens affected by their financial and monetary speculations and the construction and banking mafia. We have already achieved the abolition of the excessively high transportation fee, the ban on banks from taking out mortgages and vehicles purchased for loans from citizens. A number of other bills, namely: State support for the domestic producer, nationalization of strategic industries, monopoly on tobacco and liquefied products, reduction of the interest rate on real-sector loans, extension of the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land. They should be considered immediately this week. Today, that is, more than a thousand coal miners are now under the Cabinet of Ministers, the result of their work. Power is silent and ineffective. This once again demonstrates that oligarchic capital is depreciating the work of miners today, destroying the basic industry for further privatization. I would also like to recall that on 31 December, the moratorium on land is running out, and everything will be done to sell this land in the next January-February of next year. We must immediately consider and revert to the notion of extending the moratorium on the sale of land. In addition, we have prepared and require consideration of the Law on the Fundamentals of Internal and Foreign Policy. This sets priorities for key issues. It is of particular concern that Romania is now making territorial claims to Ukraine. After Yushchenko has actually surrendered part of our economic territory, I refer to developments surrounding the diversion from Ukraine in favour of Romania of part of the sea shelf of the island of Zmejina, today he is silent and does not respond in any way to the new territorial claims made by the President of Romania. It was recently the Romanian President who called on Ukraine to renounce its rights to Bessarabia, the vast territory of the Odessa and Nikolaev region, and not to recognize the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact at all, which meant that it did not recognize the territory of Ukraine — the lands that had been reunited with the rest of Ukraine in 39 years under the Covenant. I have no business with the Romanian President, but Yushchenko must be punished for criminal inaction, which has created a real threat to territorial integrity. Dear colleagues, the time for consideration of the draft budget for 2010 is approaching. Once again, the key issue remains the price of energy and gas. We propose the establishment of a special commission which, on behalf of Parliament, Kabmin would negotiate a settlement of this issue. As I conclude my statement, I would like to remind everyone that the cause of Ukraine's falling into the abyss is a system of power that protects the interests of only large capital, based on unguilty corruption, where impunity exists.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u11	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u12	where impunity is guaranteed by the billions in power of the oligarchs. Respected Ukrainian citizens, such a system must be destroyed, or it will destroy Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, the speech is over. I ask the secretariat to prepare appropriate assignments on the proposals made during the presentations. Dear colleagues, I ask you to listen to the information. Honourable National Deputies, May 21, 2009, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its first reading and generally as the Law 318 votes in favour of Ukrainian national deputies, was passed by the Act of Ukraine “On Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax”. [[on the application of special taxation rules for farmers in the implementation of their own products]] The draft law consisted of two paragraphs, and the first one consisted of three sub-items. The Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, in its submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on May 8, 2009, recommended that the Act be adopted on a basis with the exception of sub-paragraph three, paragraph one. According to the transcript of the plenary session, the reporter, the Ukrainian national deputy, Catherine Timofievna Vaschuk, supported the committee's decision, twice discussed the two sub-items of the first draft. In connection with this information, the President of Ukraine is given the text of the bill, which consists of two paragraphs, including the first paragraph containing two sub-items corresponding to the committee’s decision and the content of the report when discussing the bill in plenary session. I'm doing this message for the transcript so we can have regular cleanliness. Dear colleagues, we have agreed with you to schedule a plenary session for the week and Tuesday. At the Conciliation Council, a proposal was made: In view of the fact that we have to consider more than a hundred questions this plenary week so that the bills in the first reading are considered by a reduced procedure. I'm going to put this motion to a vote. Please be supportive. [[10:31:35]] For 181 Decision taken. Thank you. A draft Act amending certain codes of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on common ownership of land]] Registration number 2697. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister for Environmental Protection, Movchan Mikola Mihajlovich. Correspondent is the head of the Committee's subcommittee on agrarian policy and land relations, Bevanko Valerij Fedorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u14	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The draft Ukrainian law proposed for consideration was drafted by the government to bring legislation into line with the Ukrainian Constitution, the Ukrainian Civil Code and the Ukrainian Family Code. The position of Ukraine’s Earth Code of Common Property in comparison with the Ukrainian Civil Code is limited and restrictive in nature, which finds expression in a limited circle of subjects where the land may be in social property. In a comprehensive list of grounds for the creation of social property rights to land. The Ukrainian Family Code does not assign property to an acquired land as a result of the free transfer from land of all forms of property to the personal private property of a wife or a husband who does not correspond to the legal nature of the concept of free transfer of property to one of the spouses, thus in part violating his right to private property. The bill proposes: First. An increase in the number of social property subjects, including not only citizens but also legal persons, but also state and territorial communities. The other one. Regulation of the division of land held in the public part of the property. Third. Allocation of land acquired as a result of free transfer from land property belonging to the private property of one of the spouses. The adoption of a law amending some of Ukraine’s social property codes on land will improve the implementation of the Ukrainian Constitution’s rights to property under the dynamic development of land relations in Ukraine. It is envisaged that the introduction of this law will ensure that issues arising from the division of land in the social part of the property will be resolved by removing the legal restrictions on the realization of social property rights to land.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u15	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u16	in resolving controversial issues concerning property rights in a land area obtained through the free privatisation of one of the spouses. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u17	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Valery Fedorovich, would you please take the committee's decision?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u18	Honourable Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, honourable invitees, a committee on agrarian politics and land relations on 31 March of this year, reviewed the draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws on common property on land, registration number 2697, and notes that this bill deserves support for the following reasons: first, the land legislation of Ukraine in part of the regulation of common property on land is restrictive and restrictive, which is manifested in a limited range of subjects in which the land may be held in common ownership and in an exhaustive list of grounds for the creation of common and partial property rights to land. Second, the rules of land and family codes also do not address the issue of the acquisition by family members of the right to private property in the land privatized during their marriage. All these questions are proposed to be settled by the bill. At the same time, it cannot be accepted that the bill has been put in place to cancel the notary certificate of joint property contracts, as this could lead to an increase in abuses in this area and a decrease in the level of protection of co-owners. In view of the above, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft law be adopted on a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u19	Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this project? Who insists? You don't? I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt as a basis for the draft Act amending certain codes of Ukraine. [[on common ownership of land]] Registration number 2697. Please vote. [[10:36:53]] For 339 Decision taken. Thank you. A draft Law amending article 176 of the Ukrainian Code of Land is being announced for consideration. Reporter: Deputy Minister of Environmental Protection Movčan Mikola Mihajlovich, co-rapporteur – Valerij Fedorovich Bebzenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u20	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, national deputies! The current edition of the Ukrainian Code of Land, “Contesting the Borders of Territorial Creation”, contains only general rules. The bill introduced by the government proposes to present this article in a new edition with a view to clarifying, firstly, the content of the State act at the border of administrative and territorial creation; secondly, the definition of documents added to the State act; thirdly, the order of its signature and issuance, the procedure of determining the forms of the State act. The adoption of Ukraine's Amendment Act under Article 176 of the Earth Code will contribute to the development of separate administrative and territorial units, the improvement of the efficiency of State land relations regulation, the protection of territorial rights to land. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u21	Thank you, too. Valerius Fedorovich Bevanko, please decide the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u22	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The issue of certification of territorial boundaries is still unresolved. Therefore, while supporting the draft bill as a whole, I would like to point out that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is proposing such a bill for the second time. A similar bill on June 7, 2007, was adopted by the Supreme Council as a law and directed to the President’s signature, but returned without consideration in connection with the parliamentary elections. However, it is not clear that the position of the government has been ignored by an earlier bill on this issue and adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a law and has repeatedly passed a bill almost earlier without taking into account the changes that have already been made. This once again provides for consideration of the bill in two readings and thus delays the introduction of the law. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine actually reiterates its conclusion to the previous bill introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers in 2006 and proposes to adopt the bill as a basis for consideration in the first reading. In view of what has been said, we propose a draft of the Ukrainian Act “On Amendments to Article 176 of the Ukrainian Code of Land” to be adopted as a basis. [[Registration number 3038]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u23	Thank you. Please sit down if you would like to discuss signing up. Please sign up, insist. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u24	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are in the first draft, which we voted without notice, although there is a very important point to be taken out of the second reading, is a change to article 88 of the second part, where instead of notation, there is a simple written form that will result in a mass of complaints and all other and judicial cases. And that's gotta be cleaned up, you can't go there. As far as this law is concerned, dear friends! We're making a second law in a row about making changes. At first, we made changes in articles 86, 88, 89. We are now amending the Second Law of the Earth Code to Article 176. And right now, I'm surprised how easy it is for us to talk without some serious justification, and why we don't want the U.K. State Act to be before, now it's just the State Act. Why, earlier, the form and order of the issuance of the State Act within the administrative and notary establishment were established by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, will now be established by the government. I'm asking you: who would benefit from this going to a slightly lower level, or perhaps just better by law, so that you can't do the things that are happening right now when they stop by a government decree, by presidential decrees. So I'm not dividing the point of view that has now been expressed in the Committee's assessment, which is preventing reform by not making such changes to the law. I call on the entire Supreme Council, the whole government, the Ministry of Comprehensive Approaching, the amendments to the Earth Code, enough to dissipate, that's the first. And the second. I can't support this bill with my own voice, because it's not worth taking away any unnecessary powers from the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, who still insists on the discussion? None. The committee's proposal to accept this bill as a basis. A draft law amending article 176 of the Ukrainian Code of Land is put to the vote for adoption as a basis. Registration number 3038. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:42:58]] For 323 Decision taken. The draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws (contribution to the Ukrainian Act on Basic Principles of State Oversight (Control) in the Field of Economic Activity) is being published for consideration. Registration number 3620. The rapporteur is the Deputy Head of the State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship of Trelyaków Sergiy Ivanovic, co-rapporteur, the First Deputy Head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Bodnar Olga Borisovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u26	Dear Volodymira Mihajlovich, honourable national deputies, the purpose of the bill is to implement the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine and the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on Basic Principles of State Control and Control in the Field of Economic Activity, which took effect at the end of 2007. The implementation of this Control Act requires that certain provisions of the Act be brought into line with the Basic Law on State. on the main steps taken by the State. Yes, article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government is proposed to be published in a new edition that local government authorities do not carry out checks, but government supervision and control as defined in the Control Act. And article 16 of the Law on Local Government Administrations adds to part of the fact that local government administrations exercise State oversight, control in the field of economic activity in accordance with the law. It should be noted that according to article 16 of the Ukrainian Law, “On Local Self - Control and Local Administrations, Local Government Administrations and Local Self - Government Authorities exercise a number of powers regarding the control and activity of all economic entities located in its territory. Thus, the bill does not in any way diminish the authority of the local authorities or the authorities of the state administration. The adoption of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Laws will have the effect of bringing some legislative acts into line with the Ukrainian Act on Basic Means of State Control and Control in the Field of Economic Activity, which will facilitate a clear interpretation of these rules in practice. Given the very codifying nature of the draft law, please support the bill in its first reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u27	Thank you, sit down, please. First Deputy Head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Bodnar Olga Borisovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u28	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The bill was discussed at a meeting of the Committee on State Building and Local Government on March 4, 2009. The bill proposes to amend article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government and article 16 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations in order to make them fully responsible for the Ukrainian Act on Basic Principles of State Control and Control in the Field of Economic Activity. The provisions of article 16 of the Ukrainian Law “On Local Government Administrations” specifically assigned to the exercise of State control by these authorities are, therefore, only a specific detail of this article. With regard to article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government, it regulates the relationship of local self-government bodies with enterprises, institutions and organizations that are not in municipal property of the respective territorial communities. Thus, it is a matter of further entrusting these authorities with the authority to exercise governmental oversight or control in the field of farming in the special law set out above. The Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government adopted the conclusion to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill on the basis of which the preparation of the bill for the second reading would take into account the proposals and observations made by subjects of the right of legislative initiative, as well as the view of the General Scientific and Expert Office, which considers the law to be sufficiently superficial. In addition, I would like to inform you that the adoption of the bill has been supported by committees on industrial policy and entrepreneurship, on budget issues, on rules, on parliamentary ethics and on ensuring the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So, honourable colleagues, please support the bill and accept it on the first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u29	Thank you, too! Dear colleagues! Please sign up for the discussion. There's a recording of the performance. I'd like to take you to the board. Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyovich faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u30	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" block. Dear colleagues! I want to draw your attention to one very important detail. Indeed, the committee proposes that the State vote in the first reading and in general, and I would like not to vote today in general, supporting this bill only in the first reading. Why? Because you know that delegated powers are already in place in the local authorities today, and so it is a huge overload. No compensation for delegated powers, this practice has been established, and there is no local self-government. If, in addition, the State delegates authority to the local authorities, we should offer an adequate funding mechanism that would provide for the execution of these delegated powers. There is no such thing as local self - government in this bill. So there is a proposal, evidently it is possible to delegate such powers to local authorities, but it is imperative that we work on the second reading so that the State has the obligation to compensate for the financing of these delegated powers. This is the civilized attitude of local self - government authorities as a subject of the organization of government and government. If we don't break this mechanism, just irresponsible delegation, then we'll never have real local self-government. Request, support only in the first reading and work on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u31	Alexy Plotnikov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u32	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! There is a proposal not to support this bill. Given that the bill proposes that local self - government authorities exercise State control over the agricultural field rather than the existing order. But the application of this approach is extremely problematic, since under the requirements of the current legislation of Ukraine local self-government is carried out on the basis of legal and organizational autonomy, this is article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government. Thus, it will be impossible to follow the principle of subordination, the accountability of the public authority in the field of economic activity to the appropriate local authorities. So from this point of view, the very ideology of this bill, it has some flaws, and it's no longer worth thinking about why and how it can be improved, it just needs to reject this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, no one insists on the performance anymore? Draft Law 3620 is completed. A proposal is put to the vote for a committee to adopt on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to bring Ukraine into line with the Act on Basic Principles of State Oversight, Control in the Field of Economic Activity. [[Registration number 3620]] Please vote. [[10:51:41]] For 181 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a motion to return the bill to read again. By the way, this is also suggested by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. [[10:52:15]] For 201 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the protection of the right of persons in custody and convicted persons to unhindered correspondence with a lawyer is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 2460]] The reporter is Deputy Justice Minister Lutkovska Valerija Volodymyrna. Correspondent is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement activities, Shemchuk Viktorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u34	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the protection of the right of persons in custody and convicted persons to receive unhindered correspondence with a lawyer. The point is that the Ukrainian Law on Pre-Prison and the relevant article of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Enforcement provide for certain features of the lettering of persons held in custody and convicted persons. In particular, the letters addressed to the Commissioner for Human Rights, as well as to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the European Court of Human Rights and other international organizations are sent without review. Yet, these articles do not provide that the letters sent from these organizations are directed to the appropriate individuals who are not subject to review. In connection with this draft law, it is proposed that the laws of Ukraine be amended accordingly in order to ensure that the letters received from the Authorized Supreme Council of Human Rights from the Attorney General of Ukraine, in response to requests, are received without review from the European Court of Human Rights and other international organizations. It is also suggested that these persons be allowed to send letters and receive letters from a lawyer and, accordingly, to send them without review. Please support the fact that this bill brings Ukraine’s legislation into line with the European Convention on Human Rights and in line with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. In addition, the adoption of this bill will also allow for the avoidance of large losses from the State budget in the event that persons who apply to the European Court of Justice with a complaint of violation of their rights receive some compensation. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u35	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Victor Viktorovich, please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u36	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, honourable colleagues, proposed for your consideration, Bill No. 2460, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, aimed at bringing the provisions of the current legislation of Ukraine into line with article 8 of the 1950 Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms, ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in 97 and in accordance with article 9 of the Constitution of Ukraine, became part of the national legislation of Ukraine. The proposed changes to the ban on the review of correspondence do not in any way preclude the possibility of reviewing and removing such correspondence in accordance with the envisaged Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine on sufficient grounds to believe that this correspondence contains data on the commission of a crime, or documents and items of evidential importance if it is not possible to obtain such data in other ways. The proposed amendments to the proposed Ukrainian Bills harmonise legal regulations in this area, ensure the constitutional principle of the rule of law and remove problems in the practical application of current legislation in Ukraine. Please note that, in line with the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 2 June 2008, which has been submitted without regard to the content of the bill, it is proposed that it be accepted as a basis. Given the agreed position of all interested central executive bodies, the State Department of Execution, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the conclusions of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The committee's proposal is to adopt Bill 2460 as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u37	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if there is a need to participate in the discussion, please sign up. There's a recording of the performance. Please give me the names of the people's deputies. Yuri Carmazin. Please, Yuri Anatoliyovich, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u38	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Respectful national deputies will certainly be a serious milestone in the observance of human rights and freedoms. I agree with the opinion of honourable Victor Viktorovich that this bill should be adopted. I would just like to emphasize, because today we are being heard by people who are deprived of their will, that the violation of this right, of this convention, is completely in all countries. They were in Britain, established by the decision of the European Court of Justice in the Kemple v. United Kingdom, and they were and are in Poland - the decision “Klemecki v. Poland”, this is a fresh decision in 2003, they were all around. But. But in this law that we are adopting, we must make it clear that this law is not misused, that it is not misused, and that it is the only practice, the only approach. We have terms that are currently being applied in this law -- proposals, statements, complaints. And then every document has to be determined by someone. And how would you define it if you didn't read it? So when you read it, you're already breaking the convention to figure out what it is -- a statement, a complaint, or an offer? Therefore, one of the proposals was absolutely correct: all of this was to merge with one term of “correspondence”. And then, indeed, there will be no review of the correspondence that is addressed to and to the Powered Supreme Council of Human Rights, and the European Court of Human Rights, the Prosecutor, and the novelty that we have here, are lawyers. Because the decisions of the European Court of Justice have just reinforced the role of counsel as to the ability of people deprived of their will to communicate with a lawyer. I believe that this law should be adopted in the first reading and then taken into account the numerous observations that are still before this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u39	Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u40	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The project is intended to supplement the Ukrainian Law on Pre-Prison and the Criminal Enforcement Code of Ukraine with rules prohibiting the review by administrative authorities of institutions for the execution of sentences and places of detention at the expense of correspondence, which is being sent to, or received from, convicted persons and persons who are being held in custody. The draft is designed to bring Ukraine’s legislative acts into line with the requirements of article 8 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which was ratified by the Ukrainian Law of 17.07. In 97 C.E. The adoption of this project will eliminate the unconformity of the current legislation of Ukraine with the provisions of the Convention, which will not only meet the stated constitutional principle of the rule of law, but also remove problems about. in the practical application of the provisions of applicable legislation and in the future avoid the European Court of Human Rights finding a violation by Ukraine of article 8 of the Convention and of the State budget to pay the amounts of fair satisfaction awarded by the European Court of Justice. The faction of the Party of the Regions proposes to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. A committee proposal is put to the vote, namely the adoption of a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the protection of the right of persons held in custody and convicted persons to receive unhindered correspondence with a lawyer. Registration number 2460. Please vote. [[11:01:21]] For 377 Law, decision taken. So the bill was adopted as a basis. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Technological Information is being announced for consideration. Registration number 3303. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Education and Science of Strych Maksim Vitaliyovich, co-rapporteur, Head of the Committee on Science and Education, Zutec Mikhailo Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u42	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, the distinguished National Deputies of Ukraine, apparently there is no need to explain the enormous role that scientific information plays in science and production. Ukraine's Science and Technology Act of 93 has played a positive role in its time. But now, unfortunately, it's very old and today there are negative trends, real-time access to scientific and technical information for many Ukrainian researchers, industrialists, etc., complicated. The draft law, which is being submitted to your consideration, is designed to improve the legislative base in the field of national regulation and the development of scientific and technical information through the creation of an institutional basis and the legislative provision of a national system of scientific and technical information, information support for the development of scientific, scientific and technological, innovation, transfer technologies based on the broad use of new knowledge and the protection of the information sovereignty of Ukraine. The components of the national information and technology system have been identified, including organizational and functionally integrated information bodies, which include the main information body of the national information and technology system, the National Science and Technology Library of Ukraine, the National Centres of Science and Technology, and the branches of information. I would like to point out immediately that there is no question as to the status of the Central Scientific Library of the name of Vernadian Ukraine as the main body of scientific information, because the subject of this body's regulation is scientific and technical information that is oriented towards production. Designated functions of designated bodies, their tasks, subordination and participation in the formation of national information resources for scientific and technical information. The innovation of this law is that it defines the elements of unpublished documents of scientific and technical information, reports of scientific work, dissertation, etc. as an extremely important type of scientific and technical information that has so far remained outside the scope of legislative and regulatory use. The legislative provision of conditions is important.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u43	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u44	Requesting that this law be supported in the first reading, because it will allow the administration of the national scientific and technical information system to be improved, create favourable conditions for the involvement of natural and legal persons in the formation of national information resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u45	Thank you, too. Mikhailo Vasilovich Zubec, please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u46	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! On 22 January 2009, the Committee on Science and Education reviewed the Government's draft Ukrainian Law amending the Law on Scientific and Technological Information and decided to recommend it as a basis. The aim of this bill is to improve the legislative regulation on the development of the national system of scientific and technical information, support for the development of scientific, scientific and technological, innovation and the protection of the information sovereignty of Ukraine by amending the existing Law on Scientific and Technological Information, which was adopted only in 1993. This must be done because the legislative basis for regulating social relations in this area has changed in principle. After that, a number of codes were adopted, including Civil and Budgetary, a large number of Ukrainian laws that regulate either scientific and technical or informational activities. The reality of the country's social life has changed in principle over the past 15 years, according to the report, and the conditions for Ukrainian scientists to participate in international scientific and technological activities have been updated, especially in the light of the WTO accession and the ratification of intellectual property agreements. The law needs to be modernised to take into account the realities of modern life on the basis of a new national and international legislative framework. The law is being updated primarily to protect the rights of domestic scientists, engineers for effective interaction with the international community. The main scientific and expert office believes that the first reading of the bill can be adopted on the basis of the comments made and the proposals made. The bill is not a political exercise, it's aimed at improving activities and it's linked to scientific and technical information. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for a bill if you need it. It's a recording. May I see the names of the national deputies? Vladimir Ivanovich Polochalo, faction of Yulia Timoshenko, head of the committee. The next one will be George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u48	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I'm just going to add to what the reporters said and I'm just going to point out that we don't actually have a law on scientific and technical information right now, because it was adopted in the industrial age at the beginning of the first years of independence. And that just means that all of the sessions, all of the Supreme Council's convenings, that 15 years we had defenseless and scientists and engineers, had no effective interaction with the international community. So our sixth-room committee, all factions, together with the only one that exists with the Supreme Council, the Information Council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, joined together with prominent and well-known scientists of Ukraine, asked the Supreme Council to consider this bill and to adopt it in the first reading. This is all the more important today in the realities of the 21st century. And I would like to take this opportunity to say that on June 17 there will be parliamentary hearings on the subject: “The innovation strategies of Ukraine 2010-2020 are in conditions. challenges” and this is also an important component of this strategy. I invite all MPs not only to uphold this law but to come to parliamentary hearings.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u49	Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u50	Dear friends, Yuri Carmazin. The Party of Protectors of the Motherland “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”. Now in these days, there is a meeting of the International Academy of Bio-energetic Technology, which has been looking into this law, and we have come to the conclusion that there is a need for a change and a new revision of the law on scientific and technical information. Those changes that are now, they are not all for the benefit of the law. I agree with the same opinion of the Scientific and Scientific Administration that defines it this way. Proposed by the project, I quote, a new edition of chapter three of the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Technical Information, based on these positions, the management considers that the current edition of the section is more perfect and does not need to make changes in the proposed form. What are we talking about? This is about the fact that the provisions of article 17 of the bill propose budgeting to finance the formation of information resources with scientific and technical information, as well as scientific research and the improvement of international cooperation. In fact, budget funding can be used to finance all subjects involved in the formation of information resources for scientific and technical information. But at the expense of the budget, it's only possible to support the state authorities and the scientific and technical information services. And we don't have any scientific basis for financial help that's going to cost the budget such serious records. In addition to everything else here, we have interesting things listed in article 8, in article 9, which I mean. We have the main information body of the national information and technology system, which is defined by the central authorities of the executive branch in the field of education and science, and is part of its administration. In doing so, the criteria by which it is defined and so forth are not covered by the law. That is why I would like to avoid being praised by this law. The Law has been prepared by name.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u51	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u52	I'm done. The law is prepared, I repeat, extremely badly imperfectly legal. But it must be accepted in the first reading to start making changes. In doing so, the law that existed before does not deteriorate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u53	Thank you. Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u54	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Amendments to article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Technical Information indicate that the sector's information authorities, which are determined by the relevant central executive authority, ensure the implementation of state innovation policy at the sectoral level. However, what are the sectoral bodies, which are the relevant central executive authorities and the criteria for determining them, is not specified in the bill. It is also unclear on what legal basis these branches are proposing to authorize the implementation of state information policy, since this is the exclusive function of government authorities and local self - government. The provisions of the third part of the first part of article 17 of the bill propose that the budget be used to finance, form information resources for scientific and technical information, and conduct scientific research and develop international cooperation in the field of scientific and technical information. The content of this situation suggests that the budget can finance the activities of all subjects involved in the formation of scientific and technical information resources. At the same time, budget funds should provide financial support only to state authorities and the scientific and technical information services, to scientific and technological libraries. It is also worth noting that the above provision of the bill is too abstract and does not allow for a clear definition of what kind of work it is proposed to spend on the government budget of Ukraine, which may contribute to the misuse of budgetary resources. Some of the provisions of the bill need to be reconciled. The position of the faction of the Party of the Regions – clearly we propose to reject the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u55	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u56	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Oleg Zarubinsky's Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues! I'd like to draw your attention to such a thing. It's a government bill, it's developed by the appropriate ministry, it's passed a few consents, a lot of consensus, including the Miniusty, and the Cabinet of Ministers, and so on. I want to refer to some of this bill. Look, I'm giving you specific examples. In some places, terminology is used in some articles, while others refer to the same thing, but another. An example. The use of terminology is not uniform. State authorities and local self - government use part one of the first article of friction, other governmental and local authorities, part one of the first article of the fifth article. The next moment. The project proposes to exclude from the article of the first Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Technical Information the term “information resources for sharing” and, in the second article of the 21 Act, it continues to be used. What kind of work is this on the bill? I think that what should come from the government, because there's so much agreement, should be a model of legal technology and attention to what's being given. Not the MPs are supposed to do this, first moment. One second. See, there are certain concepts, there is no, there is no definition of these concepts, what are original documents, what are secondary documents, what are sectoral information authorities, and so on. Who's it supposed to be? What is this quality of the legal bill passed by the government? It's the Ministry's fault, I mean, it's the fault of those who signed the agreement. You know, when the topic is important, when the idea is right, if you can't spoil this idea and you can't spoil it with an inadequacy bill, you can't vote in general, I think you should think about whether it should be based on a vote. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u57	Dear colleagues! Discussion of the bill. Adam Martinyuk, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u58	Thank you! Martinuk is a faction of Communists. Dear colleagues! I am absolutely in favour of the last two speakers, and especially my colleague Zarubinsky said absolutely fair words, that a good idea, a necessary idea, was carried out by an author who was persecuting the one who wrote this bill he wrote another shadow scheme to create from scientific and technical activities a commercial organization for himself. [[I don't know who wrote it, obviously, not those who signed it.]] Because if in today's law, which, by the way, can be said that, to some extent, it's outdated, but it's clear who's responsible for the scientific and technical information, the whole structure is written down, then there are hundreds of new substructures in the new project that, by the way, will be private, but will be financed, including from the state budget. I repeat, this is another shadow scheme. I therefore urge everyone not to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The committee proposes to adopt it as a basis, this proposal is the first to vote on the adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Technological Information. [[Registration number 3303]] [[11:17:25]] For-147 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the vote on re-reading the bill. [[Registration number 3303]] [[11:17:49]] For-187 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the State Special Transport Service is being reviewed and the rapporteur is the Deputy Minister of Transport and Communications Klimenko Anatoly Volodymyrovich, co-rapporteur with the National Security and Defence Committee of Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich. [[Registration number 2687]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u60	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, Honourable Head! With a view to further improving legislation, removing existing gaps by the Ministry of Transport and Liaison of Ukraine on its own initiative, a draft Ukrainian Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the State Special Transport Service was developed and agreed with all interested ministries. The current nature of the bill is the need to implement the provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine and certain legislative acts on the settlement of issues relating to the grounds and the procedure for bringing to justice the individual composition of the State Special Transport Service, the removal of gaps and contradictions in the current legislation regarding the authority of the State Special Transport Service. During this time, 4,053 persons are serving in the State Special Transportation Service, including 2,279 full - time service and 776 contract staff. During the course of military service duties, there have been cases of individual offences, including crimes against military service established by the Ukrainian Armed Forces Statutes. At the same time, at the same time as the list of special objects that comply with the relevant legislation, the army officers of the State Department have not been introduced. This makes it difficult to resolve the issue of attracting legal responsibility and compensation to the affected State. The existence of listed gaps in Ukrainian legislation poses a potential threat to the elimination of the above-mentioned category of offenders from liability and breach of legislation. The proposed bill was amended by the Cabinet of Ministers at the time of its consideration: the draft legislation has deleted the rules for amending the Supreme Council's decision because the issue of the order of attraction to material responsibility, as well as any other kind of legal responsibility, should be regulated by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u61	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u62	The bill was fully reviewed by the Supreme Council Committee and supported. And we ask you for the results of this bill's consideration to support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u63	Thank you, sit down, please. Head of the National Security and Defence Committee Grishenko Anatoly Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u64	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, your honor, our committee unanimously supports this bill and asks you to vote for it in the first reading. This is the case when the legislative provision is already catching up with real life and is running late for a few years, but it is said that “better than never”. Please support in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u65	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Please sign in. Please show me your name. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u66	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, I support the opinion of the National MP Grishchenk, the committee head, that this law should be adopted because it is about amending the Criminal Procedure Code, it is about amending the Criminal Code, it is about amending the Law on the State Special Transport Service. The only question I have is to read the second reading and wish the committee to work is to change the name of the law, because the title of the law has clearly failed. And we realize that there are some things that have not been settled before: and how to break a criminal case, and who has to break it, who has to apply a type of disciplined seduction using disciplinary authority, the Commander. Armed forces or Defense Minister. But all of this cannot be combined with what it is. That's why I support this bill. And you could talk about it in general if you didn't talk about the name of the bill, which should definitely be amended. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u67	Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, I invite you to support this bill. Indeed, we need to give what is said. Indeed, most of you or some of those who voted in favour of the law on the transfer of railway forces to the Ministry of Transport and Communications, as practice has shown, have done just that. Speaking of this bill, speaking of railways or now special state service, I have every reason to believe that I was lucky in my third postgraduate course, learning to serve for a year in these armies and to build railways and in neighboring Moldova, in Dniproperty. And so I understand very well what it is. And let me speak out as a lobbyist of this law, and I really suggest that we vote in favour of this bill, because it doesn't carry any load, except that the leadership of these armies, the special forces, is given authority as well as other military personnel. And I think Yuri Anatolyevich will agree with me and remove his objections that this law can be passed both in the first and in general as a law. Let's not make too much paper. Please support as a whole as a matter of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, the speech is over. Those factions who did not take advantage of the right to speak do not insist? No, it's not. The Committee's proposal to adopt a draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the State Special Transport Service is put to the vote. [[Registration number 2687]] Please vote. [[11:25:17]] For 354 Decision taken. Here was a proposal to accept the project as a law. Is there a denial? There's a denial of Yuri Carmazin. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u70	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". I understand the offer made by Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. At the same time, I would like to point out that, as noted in the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, we need to make a change here. If we put this change in -- I emphasize -- in the conclusion of the Science-Expert Authority, we're now going to include it in the transcript, then we can accept it in the second reading. What do I mean? I mean what it says here is “to include the State Special Transport Service in the list of bodies listed in the Preamble for which the military statutes are extended” and therefore to provide for appropriate additions to the laws of Ukraine, by which the discipline, construction statute of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the statute of internal service, the statute of the garrison and guard services of the Ukrainian Armed Forces are approved. [[And that's not one charter!]] So if we do, I don't talk about other comments, they're not really important, but we have to do this, or it's not possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u71	Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u72	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, with the remarks made by Yuri Karmazin, I think we can agree and vote in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, no other warnings? Taking into account the proposal made by Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, which is contained in the observations of the Scientific and Experimental Administration, I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts on the State Special Transport Service on second reading and in general as a law. [[Registration number 2687]] Please vote. [[11:27:40]] For 367 The law is passed. Thank you. A draft Act amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. The reporter is the head of the State Information and Information Services of Ukraine, Czebotarenko Yuri Borisovich. The Coroner is the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u74	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft law is proposed to establish a standard of compensation for students, as well as for primary staff members of the State Department, for expenses associated with their maintenance in higher education institutions where they were trained on held orders. The norm is proposed to extend to students and persons serving in the State Service for Special Liaison and Information Protection of Ukraine within five years of the completion of the educational institution and to be released for systematic failure to comply with the terms of the contract, the service inadequacy and the acquisition of the legal force of the indictment. A similar standard exists in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the internal troops of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the External Intelligence Service, the BSS, and other structures. The draft law is in agreement, and the notes are fully taken into account. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u75	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko, head of the National Security and Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u76	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, this law is also unanimously supported on our committee. It's very simple. If a person has learned and received higher education at the expense of the State and then is released before fulfilling his obligations under the contract, he must pay, compensate for the cost of teaching. This is justly done in all other power structures and requests that this rule be extended to the State Service for Security and Information Protection. If there is a willingness to vote on this document not only in the first reading, but in general, I would like to take into account the editorial rights expressed by the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, then we can accept it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u77	Thank you, sit down. Is there a need to discuss a bill? Please sign up. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u78	I think I'm going to be as concise as the reporter and co-reporter, because they made the point of this bill clear, which we should definitely support with you. Because it is based on the fact that, in fact, in all other structures, military structures, and the State Information Protection Service also has a bearing on these structures of military formations, the rule is that each of the students of the institution, and all of the students of the educational institutions, respectively, are being trained in higher education institutions at the expense of the State Budget, that after the completion of this educational institution should work and, more specifically, should serve a minimum of five years in order to compensate the State for the costs it has spent on it. Since this norm, unfortunately, is not now extended to the students of those teaching institutions that are in the State Service of Special Branch, or, more precisely, those educational institutions that are working for this service, it is entirely logical and fair to introduce such a standard and finally put it into these matters, as you recall, we recently adopted a series of amendments to the Law on this service in order to normalize it and bring it to the state in which it should be. Because you know, it's probably the youngest government service we've singled out by special law, taken out of the Security Service, created as a single organ of central executive power. So I'm really leaning towards the idea that the head of the profiling committee here has expressed that, given the observations of the Science and Experimental Authority, we're going to adopt this law as a whole, because the law clearly, clearly and clearly, we're not going to waste time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u79	Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u80	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. I answer to the author of the report about “Baby Yaga” who is against it. I really am for making a clean legislative field, absolutely clean, and I see my role in helping parliament, including you, my dear friend, to make this law better. This law is aimed at two categories of persons: first, the students who are released from service, and the question is already settled, it is included in another law, it is included in article 25 of the Law on Military Duty and Military Service, and there is absolutely no need to duplicate it, in my opinion, even though you will not spoil the mess with butter. And the second is for the people in charge. Some have decided that changes should be made to article 14. Although I agree with Anatoly Gristenck's suggestion that we should change article 12 instead of the 14th law. I repeat, in article 12 of the law and so adopt this bill both in the first reading and in the second reading, otherwise it doesn't sound, you will look and see. That's why I'm in favour of adopting this bill, just in view of the conclusion that was drawn by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Authority, which should be noted, this is where the executioner Petrichenko, the glory of God, worked normally. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The discussion is closed, so I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft law amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information of Ukraine. [[Registration number 3311]] Please vote. [[11:34:53]] For 367 Decision taken. Adam Martinyuk, and then the committee, after all. Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u82	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear Yuri Anatolyovich and head of the committee! In fact, already in the draft law, see draft Law 3311, corrected as proposed by the Scientific and Experimental Authority. It was proposed in article 14, and the draft law stated that it should be added to article 12. I mean, I think Yuri Anatolyevich is taking his notes off and we can vote absolutely peacefully for adopting it as a whole as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u83	Dear colleagues! The head of the Anatoly Stepanovich Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u84	Thank you. Dear colleagues! There was a mere inaccuracies because the text of the law contained the correct article 12 and the comparative table contained article 14. So given what Karmazin said, what the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration wrote, make changes to article 12, and we voted in the first reading. It's standard for all power structures. I'd like to take it as a whole, taking into account the editorial bill provided for by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration and Carmazin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u85	Thank you. Dear colleagues, no objection? Yuri Carmazin, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u86	Yuri Carmazin. Dear friends, the point is that there is only 12 articles in part two, and we voted in part one to complete article 14. So Anatoly Grizzenko is right now when he says that the 12th article should be written. So I would ask, taking into account this and what is written in the expert board, and the conclusion of the committee, to vote on it as a whole. Thank you. But article 12. He agreed, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, already agreed. Thank you. I convinced him.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u87	There is no objection to taking into account the comments made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate, which the honourable colleagues spoke of, to put to the vote the draft law in second reading and in general as a law. I'm voting on this proposal. On the adoption, in second reading and in general as a bill, of the draft Act amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:37:35]] For 349 The law is passed. I am introducing the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine, the Reporter is the Deputy Minister of Justice of Lutkovska Valeriy Volodymyrna, co-rapporteur of the head of the Subcommittee, the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Schmelov Svetlana Alexandrovna. [[on the development of the work of convicts]] [[Registration number 3400]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u88	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, honourable national deputies, your opinion is proposed by a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine. I must say that there are some 100,000 working convicts in the prison system today, more than 50 percent of whom are under 30 years of age who have never worked or studied before being sentenced. In recent years, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has adopted decisions that would improve the employment of those who are serving sentences at places of deprivation of liberty, primarily because of the wider involvement of industrial potential of criminal enforcement services in the region's economy. Sadly, though, the effectiveness of their implementation remains low. Given that nearly 90 percent of the convicted persons are punished in the detention facilities located in the areas of their permanent residence to commit crimes, there is a need for a more effective involvement of the local executive authorities in solving employment issues in the organization of their professional training to form and consolidate in the convicted work skills as an integral part of their socialization process. Currently, Ukraine’s laws on local government administrations and population employment do not provide guidance for the promotion of social rehabilitation of convicted persons. Therefore, it is suggested that local authorities should be involved in addressing the pressing issues of obtaining convicted professions that use demand in the labour market. In this regard, we propose to amend the Ukrainian Law “On Local Government Administrations and the Ukrainian Employment Act. And we hope that the adoption of this bill will allow businesses to execute penalties more effectively to meet the needs of the regions in the production of industrial assignments, to acquire convicted professions that use demand in the labour market and to save the budget of local authorities. Please support and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u89	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Svetlana Alexandrovna Schmelova, head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. Please conclude the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u90	U.K.A.'s Schmel's faction. Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! As already stated in the bill, amendments to the Ukrainian Laws “On Local Government Administrations and Employment of the Populations, which are proposed to establish rules for participation in the local public administrations in the acquisition of the convicted professions that use demand in the labour market. In addition, public and territorial employment programmes should help create jobs for convicted and socially useful people. On February 4, this year, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Work reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and decided to adopt it on the first reading as a basis. [[3400]] The committee concluded that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority generally supports the legislative proposal and believes that the first reading of the bill can be adopted as a basis. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Ministry of Finance support the bill. The National Tripartite Economic and Social Council of the President of Ukraine from trade unions and the Confederation of Ukrainian Employers have no comments and no proposals for the bill. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine reported that the bill was drafted and registered in accordance with articles 90 and 92 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. In view of the above, it is suggested that the bill be adopted in the first reading as a basis. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u91	Thank you, Svetlana Alexandrovno! Dear colleagues! Please sign up for the bill. I'd like you to put your name on the National MP board. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u92	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear National Deputies! The proposed step by the government is only a small and first step in bringing us to a hugely important problem. And yet, what's like is 100,000 working people, they're out of work and two thirds of them are completely out of work, more than how many sick people and so on. I'd also like to do the second reading, because I'm going to go for the first reading of this law, and I'm going to make changes to the Law on the Purchase of Goods, Jobs and Services for State Resources, which would provide for the elimination of this category of persons when applying and when orders are made to do housing or possibly health or education in these institutions with a view to providing people with jobs. I actually think that we're going to have to devote this to a separate hearing and that as yet this problem is not rising, well these people can't get out, which two thirds of them don't work, they can't go to the Cabinet or the Bank to the President's Secretariat, they can't just. And it would be as satisfying as those miners who came out today and couldn't understand why they didn't take 300 bracelets of coal, and they bought 600 dollars of coal, why they didn't want to reduce the cost of electricity and this energy supply in all services, they couldn't understand this miner, I can't understand it, and I can't understand it. This is a question that obviously we want to hear from both the government and obviously from the profiling committees. This law should be adopted, but it should also make serious changes aimed at improving the employment of convicts in places of deprivation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u93	Oleg Zarubinsky instead of the national deputy Baranov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u94	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues, there is a phrase in the people “out of the sum and out of the prison do not complain.” But I don't think this phrase should be an argument or a motive for taking this bill seriously. The deputy minister gave the exact figures according to which about half, two thirds even of those convicted today are people that the state cannot afford to work. I don't want to talk about the pasta principle of work education anymore, but it's very different. When we say that a person who has been punished needs to be reintegrated into society has to undergo social adaptation, it can't do that at least because 50 percent of the 100,000 who are currently in detention centers have never worked before 30 years. It seems to me that any state, our state, because the Constitution says that it is a social state, has three key functions: employment, securing the convicted, first; secondly, vocational training and third, and most importantly, have made or helped further integration into the society of the condemned. And that's why I think that the proposals in this bill are right, at least because they're systemic. They are tasked with local administrations to promote the search and formation of jobs, both within and outside penal institutions. They ask questions to the authorities responsible for the employment of the population, too. It seems to me that unlike my colleagues who said there was still a lot of work to be done here, I didn't find any work to be done. That is, we must help those who have given in, at least for their own good, because they will return to society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The committee proposes to accept it as a basis. I am voting on a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the development of the work of convicted persons. [[Registration number 3400]] Please vote. [[11:47:42]] For 339 For 339, the decision is made. There's no other proposal, let me put it this way, is there? The committee proposes only on a basis, there is a note. Asking the committee to speed up the preparations for the second reading. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the regulation of the activities of the political party is being considered. Reporter - Oleg Zarubinsky, co-rapporteur - Head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Upper Sergey Petrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u96	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues, today everyone is saying that the political party should be an institution that identifies political responsibility. It is clear that waiting for serious political responsibility and, above all, for the election in the parties that are created as technological projects that are registered for elections that try to use just like tools, tools, technologies, such political structures do not need to expect political responsibility, and that is impossible. The legislation regulates this issue to some extent, so that such artificial neophytes do not participate in the electoral campaign, actually do not spoil the electoral campaign, and it is envisaged that one year of registration will be required. In my bill, I propose to increase this term is the first position. Second position. This is about elections to central authorities -- parliamentary elections. When it comes to local elections, there are no restrictions at all today — that is, the day before the election to register a pseudo, an artificial organization, and it will nominate its candidates. This is also artificial. And one more moment. When the parties register, according to current legislation, it is necessary to raise 10,000. signatures. What I'm proposing in the bill is that if the party chooses a national scale of less than 10,000. voters, then, are there likely reasons why they need it at all, and is it even a party? It seems to me that this project will certainly give rise to ambiguous interpretations, especially when everyone sees themselves the day before one or another election campaign. Maybe Vladimir Mikhailovich, as the author.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u97	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u98	As the author of the legislative initiative, aware that it is controversial, although I am convinced that it is in principle strategically correct. It might be possible to further elaborate this bill and, if there's the will of the session room, send it back for re-reading, some points still need to be clarified. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u99	Thank you, too. Please take the seat of the committee. Upper Sergei Petrovich, head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u100	Honorable Predestination! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government, commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on February 20th, 2008 at its meeting, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the regulation of the activities of the political party, submitted by the national deputy Oleg Alexandrovich Zarubinsky. The bill proposes to amend Ukraine's laws: “On political parties in Ukraine”, “On elections of Ukrainian national deputies”, “On elections of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Village, Urban Heads”, “On elections of the President of Ukraine”. The law proposes to increase the number of grounds for the cancellation of the political party's registration certificate, to increase the time interval from the date of the political party's registration to the acquisition of the right to nominate candidates in the elections of the Ukrainian and President's national deputies to 730 days, and to establish that the local political party's organisation can nominate candidates in the election of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, village, city heads if it is registered no later than 365 days before the election day. The meeting also considered the conclusions reached by the committee on the bill. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy makes separate comments to the bill, but it believes that the result of its first reading may be accepted as a basis. According to the Committee on Budget Affairs, the bill has no impact on the income and expenditure of the budget or on its implementation in the current financial year. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine makes separate remarks to the bill, according to the first reading of the bill, it is appropriate to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u101	Yes, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u102	The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine also made comments to the bill and did not support it. Instead, the National Deputies of Ukraine, members of the committee, believe that the bill can be adopted as a basis for the first reading. The draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the bill is based on the consideration of Parliament by the Ukrainian people's deputies, members of the committee. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u103	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. Please put the names of the national MPs on the board. Olga Geramsimük Ruslan Knazevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u104	Dear Head, honourable colleagues, if we can agree in some part of this bill only because it is indeed necessary to amend the law on political parties in Ukraine. You know, what we live by is the law in 2001, which was still written on an old constitutional basis, and in 2004, you know, remember that we've actually moved to a new parliamentary-presidential model of form of government, where political parties are or are not the main driving forces of political life in Ukraine. Thus, a similar act was discussed at last sessional week in Mr. Gristenk’s editorial work. He didn't get enough votes, unfortunately he was out of the order of the day. But I am grateful to the author for his initiative, and she needs it very much. It is essential for us to start a really serious work on this bill. If we don't change it, much of the change in cosmetics that we're trying to make in the electoral legislation on political party activity is not essentially a solution to the problem. Because the problem is in the law, which is morally outdated in terms of at least valid constitutional standards. In large numbers, you know, I'm not going to count everything, but, for example, even the first change that presupposes the Supreme Court's decision to terminate the political party's activities is no longer in line with the legislation that was adopted after those functions were handed over to the administrations of justice. You remember, there's still a bunch of things left in the law. For example, if a political party does not participate in elections for 10 years or in no way manifests signs of political life, it can act during this ten - year period, only 10 years go by, then it is the reason for its termination. Ladies and gentlemen, if we have one. We've already understood the idea that we may not have any elections in Ukraine for 10 years? What is the political party if it can afford to have no part in the country’s political life for 10 years? Why such a political party? Because the political party under the Constitution is designed to have a direct active and influential share in political life. Of course, it's a discussion norm on the two-year period of the need to register a political party for elections, because you know what we might have.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u105	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u106	I thought there might be an early election. And according to the valid Constitution of 2004, no one can predict when these elections will take place. And then, to some extent, the rights of the party are limited. But this idea is right, it needs to be developed, maybe really supported by the author of the bill and sent back for the first reading. I would be very happy to join in working on complex changes to the Political Parties Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u107	Pavlovsky People's Deputies, Timoshenko's Block. Please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! I want to support Mr. Zarubinski's initiative. I think the bill is up to date because there are almost 140 parties in our country. The number of them increases almost monthly. This is in principle the right of everyone to unite in different parties, but there are cases where parties are created for artificial, commercial reasons. We know when a brand of parties are then sold for money. If you really look at it, at best we have 10 parties in the country, all of them are these artificial products for sale. So I think it's time to sort things out. I support the author's need to define more clearly the reasons for the party registration and the correct novelty that the party should exist at least two years before it takes part in the election, so that these are not the day-to-day parties that are created under the election. Therefore, I propose to support Mr. Zarubinski and to vote as the basis for the first reading of this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u109	Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u110	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The project proposes to limit the political party's right to nominate candidates in the election of Ukrainian national deputies and the election of the President of Ukraine in the event that they have been registered less than 730 days before the election day. In addition, it is suggested that the local political party organization should be restricted from participating in local elections of all levels and election of members of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea in the event that it has been registered less than 365 days before the date of the appropriate elections. The project also has a proposal to increase the grounds for the cancellation of the political party’s registration. In our view, the imposition of coercive measures on the cessation of the political party for the proposed reasons without regulation of the aforementioned possibility is unreasonable and excessive. There is no doubt that the political party has the right to eliminate its own structures and structural structures provided for by the statute. Similarly, there is no doubt that there is a need to eliminate specific local political party organizations. As a result, even in the event of a decrease in the number of local organizations and the number lower than that established by law, a party should not be required to immediately cancel its registration certificate. In our view, this bill is non-democratic, and we suggest that it be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u111	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. The Communist faction has the right to speak. Please, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u112	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I am addressing you: let's support this bill in the first reading. Each of us understands that, unfortunately, Ukraine has produced so many political parties that even political party leaders do not know what their party is really called. If we set the rules that govern the activities of these political parties, then I am convinced that there are those political parties in the session room that this law has no relation to, because each of them can confirm the number of 10,000 people. Each of them can win at least 10,000 votes in the election, each of our parties has been registered for more than two years, each of our parties is participating in the election, and that's where the language goes, if they don't participate in the election for ten years, that's how the party gets out of the vote. I think we have absolutely every reason to vote on it in the first reading, and already in the second, we have to look at it in more detail and take those proposals into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u113	Anatoly Matvienko, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u114	Ukrainian Republican Party Council. The “Our Ukraine - People’s Self - Defense ” bloc. Dear colleagues! In fact, we need a way to normalize the party's activities, but I'm now addressing those who want to support this bill that we have a problem with society? The problem of small parties and their impact on the situation, or the problem of oligaric parties? Political holdings that are now seeking to usurp power. I think we have a sense that this is not a problem that is, unfortunately, supported too much, is a problem in Ukraine, so we have to think clearly about not creating in democratic conditions right now, when we don't have political structure, when we don't have ideological political parties, some sense of destruction. It seems to me that this law is not the part of the political parties that should be settled today. So the first thing we can do is read again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u115	Dear colleagues! The bill is closed. We are united in the only thing that we need to normalize the process so that we have a civilised political structure of Ukrainian society. The responsible structure, as discussed by colleagues, is the national deputies of Ukraine. A motion for a committee to adopt is put to the vote on the basis of a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[Registration number 1236]] [[on the regulation of the activities of the political party]] Please vote. Based on the base. [[12:03:33]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. A motion from the author of the bill to re-read the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine is put to the vote. [[on the regulation of the activities of the political party]] [[Registration number 1236]] Please vote. [[12:04:10]] For 224 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Ladies and gentlemen of the National People's Party, this is an announcement. I'll put it to a vote, please. On the return of the question of re-reading, when you're there, about coming back. [[12:04:47]] For 212 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A break of 12.35 minutes is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u116	Please invite the national deputies to the session room so that we can continue our work. Dear colleagues! Now we have to look at draft laws: registration numbers 2637 and 2102. There is such a proposal to listen to the reports, then a co-report on these two laws, to discuss them together, and to vote separately. Is there no objection? A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, as well as a draft Act amending article 28 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Principles of Full Protection concerning State Oversight for the Safety of Work, is being announced for consideration. [[on the State Civil Protection System]] The rapporteur is Deputy Minister for Emergency Situations and Protection against the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster Kostinjuk Bogdan Ivanovich. Please, Bogdan Ivanovich. The co-conspirator will be the first deputy chairman of the committee, Shershun Mikola Haritonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u117	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws was designed to meet the requirements of chapter 14 to the end and transitional provisions of the Ukrainian Civil Protection Act. [[on the State Civil Protection System]] The project envisages changes to the Ukrainian Laws: an ecological emergency zone; State rewards; elevated risks; higher education; state assistance to families with children; combating terrorism; and the operation of a fuel-energy complex during a special period. In order to comply with the Law on Civil Protection Rules in the area of the appointment of ministries, organs and departments, which are responsible for the tasks of civil protection, members of the military and primary staff, who have served in civil protection bodies and units, the names of the higher educational institutions of the Ministry. In its essence, the bill is technical and refers to terminology. The implementation of the law does not require additional material and other expenses. The draft Law is accepted without notice by interested executive authorities. The adoption of the project will allow for the elimination of existing terminology differences, such that obsolete legislation on the functioning of civil defence forces has become invalid. Create the right conditions for a single state system of civil protection for populations and territories against technological and natural emergencies. The bill as a whole received a positive conclusion from the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, which was considered by the Profile Committee and recommended for adoption as a basis. Thank you for your attention! The report is complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u118	Thank you, too! Please sit down, Bogdan Ivanovich. Mikola Haritonovich, on the bill 2637 and 2102.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u119	Mikola Shershun "Block Lithuania". Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The proposed draft law is designed to comply with the requirements of the Final and Transitional Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Civil Protection Legal Principles. This project is designed to amend the seven laws, and I won't repeat myself again, because only the speaker told me about it. And the purpose of the amendments is to align the Act with the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Civil Protection Legal Principles in the area of the appointment of ministries, departments to which the tasks of civil protection of members of the military and primary forces who serve in the civil protection departments and departments of the name of the higher educational institutions of the Ministry are assigned. I want to say that this is essentially a technical bill that applies exclusively to terminology. And the implementation of the law does not require any additional material expense. The bill as a whole received a positive conclusion as the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it was considered on a profile committee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster and recommended for adoption on the basis of comments made. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u120	Yes, thank you, too. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a bill discussion. [[Registration numbers 2637, 2102]] A recording of the performance is being made. Please show the names of the national MPs who are registered. Bondarenko Volodymir Dmitrovic. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, and especially I address Mr. Bogdan Kostinuk as representative of the Ministry. Of course, it is a bill that identifies formal things, names of educational institutions, changes in the definition of these names, as well as the status of students, and so forth. But we, I care about another problem and, I think it should be more important than these formal things. It's about a system of human resources training for all the departments that are actually involved in saving the lives and health of the population in different situations, and it's also in the fight against terrorism, it's also during technological disasters, it's also in special areas where a lot of these things happen. And we have developed a system of standard emergency situations in Kiev that then trigger various services, such as power outages, gas shut-offs, underground transport disruptions, floods that were very high in Kiev in 1970 and so forth. So these standard situations, they can be listed in two or three tens, sometimes there are extraordinary, extremely extraordinary situations like the Chernobyl accident, but everything else is standard, usually. And often the actions of officials who are supposed to be protecting the population are the militia, fire protection, civil defense, some technical units are divided, they operate without certain standards in performing their actions under such conditions. So I would ask the Ministry to introduce a bill on the standards of action of all services that deal with civil protection for a period of such emergencies. I think it's more important than putting names in place. Although I do have to do this, I propose to support the bill, but the ministry is asking me to make proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u122	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u123	To make proposals in the same way as I talked about the development of state-wide standards for the operation of different services dealing with civil protection of the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u124	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. No one insists on the word. I will put to the vote a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the State Civil Protection System]] Please vote. [[12:43:10]] For 315 Decision taken. It is now being voted on as the basis of the draft Act amending article 28 of the Ukrainian Civil Protection Law. [[on State oversight of the safe conduct of work]] Again, registration number 2102. Please vote. [[12:43:48]] For 307 Decision taken. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on waste management is being announced for consideration. Dear colleagues, here's the reporter for our National Deputy Strtovich, he's meeting at 12 o'clock and he's asking that if he doesn't make it, we postpone it and then we go back to reviewing these two laws: 2459, 2642. No warning? Therefore, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on hunting and hunting, protection, use and reproduction of the animal world is being considered. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Shershoun Mikola Haritonovich, co-rapporteur, head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement, Gritsak Vasil Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u125	Mikola Shershun, “Block Lithuania”. Honourable Head, honourable national deputies, the need to introduce this bill is also due to the fact that a number of problems, such as hunting dogs, are not regulated by valid legislation. And today's illegal hunting fines are much lower than the user's set-up for hunting animals. The bill proposes to amend the laws: “On hunting and hunting”, “On animal life”; the Code on Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which aim at improving the legislative base on hunting management; the Code on Administrative Offences; the Code on Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which provide for a substantial increase in the amount of fines for infringements of hunting rights, such as the granting of rights to a specially authorized executive body in the field of hunting; the use of hunting animals, birds. The adoption and implementation of this bill does not require additional financial expenditure from the State Budget of Ukraine. The main scientific and expert office recommends that it be accepted on the basis of its proposals. The Committee on Environmental Policy, as well as the Legislative Security Committee, which is the main environmental activity, support the bill and recommend its adoption as a basis. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u126	Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the Committee on Law Enforcement. Gretzak Vasil Mikolaiovich. I can't see him. Who will report from the committee? However, we do have a committee decision that recommends that we take it as a basis. At the same time, I ask the heads of the committees to be present. Please sign up for your speech on the bill. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. Vladimir Ivanovich Landik, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u127	Thank you. Landik, Party of Regions. You know, as much as we're not limiting all these fines, we're increasing, and so on, the reduction of the head, it's said, of the wild birds and the four-legged animals, is shrinking dramatically. And soon we will show our children and grandchildren all of this from pictures of the past or the last century. I therefore believe that a bill should be drafted, not limiting or increasing fines, but a total ban on hunting for a long time, for example, for five or 10 years, which would bring about the resurgence of wild animals. And then you'll be fined, or you'll be shooting, because we'll lead to something that's not going to be fired, and they'll be shooting at crows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u128	Vladimir Bondarenko, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, radio audiences, TV sets! I would like to point out that this law is extremely necessary, but it is extremely soft. It is a matter of world practice today, especially in Norway, when a Norwegian citizen received four years in prison for killing a wolf in the woods, and it was proved that it was not a wolf that came to steal something, and a man came and killed in the wolf’s natural environment. The same applies, for example, to Germany, where it was forbidden for five years to visit forest areas at all. What do we have? Go to the market today, and you'll see that during the rest of the day, there are dozens of people standing there and trading in different kinds of fish that are just disappearing during this period. The point is that criminal responsibility should be increased for fishing during the rest of the season, especially since this destroys the actual future generation. the future reproduction of this fish. It's about using these kind of hunting devices, like electrics, that actually destroy everything that's alive there. I would like to say that there's an industry in Ukraine that's also famous when some people are making squats from animals that are long gone into the Red Book and the former Soviet Union and Ukraine. But this man stands and sells. Where did he get it? Who gave him permission to destroy this animal in nature? So I think we need to step up the position of this law a lot, and I think in the second reading he should take more hard forms, or we in Ukraine won't be able to see what. What we've seen, and we've never seen our children before, is no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more. Therefore, there is a need to strengthen the responsibility for violations of nature’s legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, no one insists on participating in the bill anymore? Oh, no? I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on hunting and hunting, protection, use and reproduction of the animal world. [[Registration number 1154]] Please vote. [[12:51:08]] For 324 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Code on Administrative Offences is being announced for consideration. [[on strengthening efforts to combat poaching]] The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Ivan Aleksandrovich. Correspondent is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement activities, Shemchuk Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences. [[to strengthen the fight against poaching]] First, it is proposed to extend the scope of the right to draw up protocols on administrative offences for officials of authorized authorities. In the case of the adoption of the bill, authorized officials of the conservation authorities and the hunting authorities will have the right to draw up protocols on offences in the area of infringements of the requirements for the protection of species of animals and plants in the Red Book of Ukraine, and officials of the state-of-the-art conservation services of the natural-command fund in the area of infringement of the rules and procedures for the pursuit of hunting. The other one. The bill also extends the scope of the application of the right to draw up protocols on administrative offences by public inspectors. Civil hunting inspectors and public inspectors of the conservation authorities will have the right to draw up protocols for infringements of the relevant fisheries rules and regulations. And for the manufacture, or sale, of prohibited tools for acquiring animal or plant objects, for exceeding the limits and standards for the use of natural resources. With the adoption of the bill, the public environmental inspector will have the right to draw up protocols in both the areas just mentioned and those who violate the order of purchase or the sale of animals or plants, rules for keeping wild animals in captivity that violate the rules for the protection and use of SFP territories and objects. Third. The bill expands the scope of the implementation of standard protocols on administrative offences by officials of enterprises, institutions and organizations that carry out protection, use, reproduction of the animal world. Such changes to the Code of Offences were long overdue because poaching had become unheard of at an unheard - of scale. From 91st to 2008, mainly as a result of mass poaching, the number of hunting animals: deer, moose, and so on has been reduced by 30 to 70.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u132	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u133	The number of bears fell twice and the number of bears fell three times. Fish poachers catch so many fish each year that they are almost equal to their industrial catch. About 11,000 infringements of the rules of hunting, about 100,000 infringements of the rules of fishing, about 30,000 arbitrary forest eaters, nearly 6,000 ticket poachers, and one thousand reserve violators are detained by the State’s environmental services each year. There are positive conclusions from the Committee on Ecology. These proposals will support 10 of the public. Almost 10 public organizations. The main scientific and expert department thinks it's okay. recommends that it be accepted as a basis. We're working on the warnings, the comments it makes. So I'm asking you to adopt this bill in the first reading, and we're going to do it according to your comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u134	Thank you, sit down, please. Shemczuk Victor Viktorovich, head of the committee's committee on law enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u135	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Law Enforcement of Law Enforcement has considered a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Administrative Offences on strengthening measures to combat poaching, submitted by Ukrainian National Deputies Members of the Republic of Ukraine to introduce amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences. The aim of the bill is to increase administrative responsibility for violating a number of environmental legislation requirements, improve public control in the field of environmental protection, and expand the powers of both officials of the relevant public authorities and public inspectors and public authorities of fisheries inspectors (for the purpose of producing protocols on administrative offences for certain types of such violations. However, it should be noted that the legislation on administrative responsibility sets out a special order of accountability, which includes a range of procedural measures aimed at ensuring the conduct of cases of administrative misconduct, such as the conduct of checks, the collection and evaluation of evidence, the detention of the offender, the conduct of personal examinations, the removal of items and documents. In doing so, the public inspectors are not in charge of most of these procedural measures. In addition, empowering public inspectors to draw up protocols on administrative offences provided for in article 85 of the Code on Administrative Violations, which is the responsibility for infringements of the rules on hunting, fishing, including fishing with weapons, will require measures to regulate their legal and social protection at the level of employees authorized to exercise control in the field of hunting and hunting. It also raises doubts and changes to paragraph 9 of the first part of article 255 of the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the granting by civil fisheries inspectors and inspectors of fisheries authorities of the right to draw up protocols on administrative offences provided for in article 91 with a badge of two for infringements of hunting rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u136	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u137	After reviewing the draft bill, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that it should be rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u138	Thank you. Dear colleagues! For discussion, please sign up, Bill. May I have the names of the national deputies on the board? Vladimir Bondarenko, microphone, Timoshenko Yuli Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u139	There is one very valuable thing in this bill, and even if it is rejected, I will ask Mr. Shersun Mikola Haritonovich that we may work together. This is a special category of conservationists, so - called outpost inspectors. Imagine conservation activities in the area of tens of villages and thousands of water resources and thousands of water resources, such as lakes, ponds, rivers. How it can protect these objects by means of several inspectors from safety. I think there's going to be a whole group in every village, or a small group of these out-of-office inspectors, who will have the right to be driven out of the pond, or out of the lake, or out of the river, which there are those who destroy nature there without stopping at anything. So this category of extracurricular advocates has to be introduced to us as an absolute nature protection unit not at the lowest level where it actually develops this nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u140	Ivan Vernidubov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u141	Thank you. Dear friends! There is no doubt that legislation on increased responsibility for violations and the fight against poaching needs to be improved, but what is the point of this bill? And I can't say, for example, why this bill is being discussed today, given that there are many drafts on this subject in the Supreme Council. For example, No. 1154 of December 11, 2007, No. 2252 of March 20, 2008, No. 4009 of February 4, 2009, and these bills are also proposed to amend, and it is to these articles of the Code on Administrative Offences that we are talking about. A similar subject of regulation also has Bill 1461 of January 31, 2008. Therefore, under such conditions it would be really appropriate to consider all these bills and listen to the conclusions of the profiling committee on these issues, which changes have been taken into account. And one more thing, I think, is that the expansion of the powers of government officials, of civil servants, of senior inspectors, and yet I also have fears and doubts. If we adopt changes to this law, just about the forest inspectors, we're going to want another area of activity tomorrow, and that's what we're going to do, I think, with a number of negative phenomena. I think this bill needs to be rejected at this stage. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u142	Yuri Karmazin, faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u143	Yuri Carmazin. The Party of Protectors of the Motherland “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, I approached Viktor Viktorovich, and he said it was the committee's opinion, but not his personal opinion when he spoke to the committee about rejection. Let's think about what's going on, the state isn't capable, I'm stressing the word "incompetent" to protect our environment today. It's in the Rabbit's Bill about giving such powers to public inspectors that he created them, he didn't invent them, they're written in the law on hunting and hunting, about protecting the environment, about the plant world, about the animal world, where it's clearly stipulated that these public inspectors have the right to file a protocol on the abuse. Among other things, there are numerous special provisions that have been approved by the executive authorities. So they exist in some laws, and now we have to change the Administrative Code in general, that's the question. Next. We are told that there are many drafts on the Supreme Council today called 1154, 2252 and so forth. Here's to health! Let them be. We'd be looking at this -- we'd be taking this bill into account today; this is being considered -- we'll take these into account when we make the changes. But the fact that the Azov Sea is now being wiped out by fish is practical, the fact that forests are burning around today, the fields are burning, and we see how it ends, the fire parts are not going out. And this needs to be completed – this clearly shows that this bill needs to be adopted and then predated by those bills that are in place. So, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support this bill and public inspectors from the authorities of fisheries, and environmental protection, and forest inspectors, all of them today are to help the state at this difficult time of chaos, when no laws are in force at the level of the state, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u144	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The draft law has been finalized. [[Registration number 3003]] I'm betting on the vote on the first proposal to adopt a draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on strengthening efforts to combat poaching]] I'm reminding you, registration number 3003. [[13:03:59]] For 233 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Let's see, because there was a committee proposal to reject, let the committee work so it doesn't. Oleg Lazko, please, what's the point? Microphone. Is that what this is about?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u145	Oleg Laszko "Club of Yulia Timoshenko". Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! While you and I are discussing important, relevant bills for the country, there are some very strange things happening in Crimea. As soon as I got the information that the government's number four, number five and number seven in Libya had been removed, I replaced these funds with the private protection of one of the commercial structures that were sold to the State Administration. I want to remind you that the state houses in Libya are monuments to history, it's the acquisition of the state. I would like to remind you how in 2003 the Glycinium was given into private property and to this day the Supreme Council is being tried for this “Glycinia”. I'm addressing you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Now, make a request, protocol order, for the State Administration to provide all information on the alienation of Dutch number 5 and number 7 and initiate the creation of an appropriate temporary council in the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u146	Thank you! Well, finish it, please! Well, that's not the point, dear fellows!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u147	A corresponding interim commission of inquiry. What an impression it is that today’s bank leaders, who realize that they are living the last days, are also stretching out state property! We have to stop this process! And everything we can do.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u148	Thank you! Dear colleagues! I'm asking you, let's talk about it. For that matter, if the Supreme Council doesn't object, I'll make an appropriate request, and then I'll inform you. And please, let's work on the meeting schedule. Dear colleagues! A draft Law on the Provision of Services, which facilitates the departure of natural persons abroad from Ukraine or their temporary stay abroad, is being announced for consideration. [["On non-state immigration services"]] Rapporteur, National Deputy of Ukraine Bondarenko Vladimir Dmitrovic, will be the co-rapporteur of the Head of the Committee on Legislative Protection of Shemczuk Viktor Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u149	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, it is not a secret that Ukraine is one of the most powerful providers of immigrants to the countries of Europe, Asia, Australia. Today we know that there are between 3.7 million and 5 million people living abroad at the same time. About 15 million people leave Ukraine each year on various issues. But as labor emigration, that part that I was talking about is abroad, mostly in an illegal situation. And that's what's causing the total mess in that part of the labor export activity that's being released from control in Ukraine today. The language goes for the next one. Today, several ministries are involved in this problem, including eight of these ministries, and we asked them in drafting this law about their opinion on this issue, and we received very interesting suggestions that entered the bill. The bill was discussed on four committees of the Supreme Council and received support from these committees. It was developed by representatives of various factions of the Supreme Council, including the Yulia Timoshenko Block, the Party of the Regions, and also from the “People’s Union. ” “ People’s Self - Defense. ” I would like to say that virtually everyone who has analyzed the situation has come to the conclusion that order and order should be given here, first of all, the unforbidden nature of going or not going abroad, and first of all, that those firms and those licensed individual entrepreneurs who operate this activity should be acting in defined rights. It's about that we have examples where one firm, with a job license from the exit, let's say Japan was making, ensuring, more loyally, the processing of documents without any obligation to citizens in 24 countries, is the same thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u150	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u151	The same applies to the activities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, where, instead of prejudice, work is done to search for the illegals, and the illegals are returning to Ukraine. And today we have more results than we warn crime. So I would like us to consider this bill today in one way or another: to stop the illegal actions of individual firms, and today, hundreds of them, by actually recruiting Ukrainian citizens who, when they're abroad, have no rights, are becoming slaves, sometimes sexual slaves, and so on. I would therefore like to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u152	Thank you. Victor Viktorovich Shemchuk. Decision of the 2396 bill committee
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u153	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Law Enforcement of Law Enforcement has considered a draft Ukrainian National Deputies Act on the provision of services that facilitate the movement of natural persons abroad from Ukraine or their temporary stay abroad. [[Bondarenko, Crnvol and Stretovich and others]] [["On non-state immigration services"]] The bill is initiated on the basis of the need to establish uniform requirements for non-state institutions dealing with the provision of appropriate services to persons who wish to leave Ukraine for permanent residence in another country or for other purposes, i.e. work, treatment, education, religious or tourist purposes. The bill is aimed at reducing uncontrolled migration, the cost of readmission, removing obstacles to the return of Ukrainian workers to Ukraine and increasing revenues to the State budget due to the limitation of anonymous, that is, the shadow entrepreneurship of emigration services. After reviewing the bill, the committee considers it possible to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it on first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u154	Honorable colleagues, the report, and the report are delivered. Please sign up for the discussion. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u155	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. You know, it's a very important question. I've been on a foreign mission recently, and I've encountered many cases of violations of citizens' rights that come out of the very middle-class companies that organized citizens or temporary work abroad or going on a tour or even when people emigrate to another country. Now it's a very simple task for us to leave this area of activity unregulated, that is to say, for our own benefit, those operators working in this area will either conscientiously provide services to our citizens, or in any way try to make more money at any cost. While, you know, there's an extremely common phenomenon, such as human trafficking, the mass exodus of women abroad for purposes of sexual slavery, and not without the mediation of some firms working in this area. That is why I, my dear colleagues, urge you, regardless. That this law is not perfect, but that it should be adopted in the first reading on the basis of, develop and regulate this field of activity, give clear rules, a clear system of coordinates for all the subjects working on this market, and allow the State to control those subjects in order to prevent violations of Ukrainian citizens’ rights. Dear colleagues, I invite you to vote on the basis. Thank you. Our faction will support the foundation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u156	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u157	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Respectful national MPs are twice as impressed by this bill. First impression. There are problems in defining definitions. For example, the law, literally, in the first article of the law, which contains the task and the short title of the law, is already a question. There's a question, because the written name for non-state emigration services is a short name. I think it's just a complete failure, and it needs to be changed. So I'd like to separate the effort that the authors have, and I thank them for that, and it's Bondarenko, and Crnovola, and Stretovich, and Moskal, and Verniubov for trying to get this activity out of the shadows, it's very good, it's that there's an attempt to resolve these issues and help those who help in tourism, sports, scientific, cultural, religious, professional, political, social activities. But you can't change those definitions, you have to change them. So this term, "emigration services", has to be thrown out at all, it's not serious. With regard to the term “non-state” in this term of “non-state immigration services”, there is a question that is apparently also a matter of State immigration services. Obviously, we still need to work seriously on everything else. I think that only legal persons should be involved in this activity. I think they have to be with a certain reputation, they have to be licensed, their services certified as they are all over the world. Then the responsibility will be certain. So I'm supporting my colleague on what should be accepted in the first reading, making changes, including those systemic names that are in the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, the discussion of draft Law 2396 has been completed. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. This is my proposal to vote on the adoption of the draft Services Act, which facilitates the departure of natural persons abroad from Ukraine, or their temporary stay abroad, registration number 2396. [[“On non-state emigration services”]] [[13:16:14]] For 290 Decision taken. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on waste management is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 2459]] The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine. Did we postpone? Strtovic Volodymir Mikolajovic. The rapporteur is a member of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Tolstow Anatoly Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u159	Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! The scales of environmental use and the structure of industrial production in Ukraine have pushed our country into countries with the highest absolute drinking rates of production, accumulation of waste. In the early 1990s, Ukraine produced as much waste each year as it did in the 12 countries of the European Union in general. The stockpiling process continues today, accounting for about 600 million tons a year. The problem of waste management with each year is exacerbated and a legislative solution is needed to prevent harmful effects on the environment and the health of people, which can lead to significant negative consequences. In line with the recommendations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Supreme Council Regulation of 6 October 2005, taking into account the Euro-integrational orientation of Ukraine's environmental policy, should radically change the treatment of the problem of own waste management and its use, which needs to be improved in line with European practice. The changes proposed today to adopt and implement a number of Ukrainian legislation take into account the trends that have taken place in Ukraine in the last 10 years since the adoption of the Waste Act. The aims and objectives of this law are to bring Ukraine into line with the provisions of the Ukrainian Law with international standards and instruments governing relations in this field, including the European Union Framework Directive on Waste. This will contribute to Ukraine’s branched, interlinked legal field, taking into account world trends in the effective solution to the waste problem. There is a proposal for developed methods for the organization of the separation of household waste collection and rules for the organization of the collection, transport, processing and disposal of household waste, which are approved by the central authority of the executive branch on housing and utilities. The implementation of the law does not require additional financial costs from the State budget, but the purpose of the reprocessing of human and industrial products will be to fill the public penalty. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u160	Anatoly Volodymyrovich Tolstoyov, a member of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u161	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs, a bill tabled by our colleague, National Deputy Stretovich, contains proposals to improve the legislation on waste management. More specifically, these are changes to the Code of Administrative Offences, the Law on Local Government Administrations, Local Self - Government, the Wastes and Militia Act. The situation was particularly open to all of us. From the point of view of reality, back in the early 1990s, we were producing wastes as much as in all EU countries in general, today it's 600 million tonnes per year. If we look at the situation on the side of legislation, we are lagging behind in our response. We do not have sufficient coordination between the various legislative acts, the synchronization of their activities and, of course, we are lagging behind in adapting these legislative acts to international standards. The position of the scientific expert council: send for work. As for the few committees that were looking at it, it looks different. And the Committee on Budgets and Housing and Health, and the Cabinet of Ministers are offering support and acceptance as a basis. Our committee has taken the position of professional committees in view of the fact that the nature of the changes, the comments that are proposed, can be taken into account in the preparatory phase from first to second reading. Accordingly, I express the committee's position: to support and accept as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the performances. Please put the names of the national deputies on the board. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u163	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, we already have an example today that 500 to 600 million a year is just as much as 12 EU countries give garbage. Waste. But I want to draw your attention to the fact that already 2 percent of Ukraine's territory is under these dumps. 2 percent of the territory of Ukraine! I want to draw your attention to the fact that rains, rains do their thing: they go in grant water, they're then used by people, they're then used by people. We can't get rid of it later. So I'd like to pay attention, taking this opportunity, to the head of the Chief Executive, to the expert board of Bordenyuk, which probably his boys have to go to re-rehearsal when they're in no public position to conclude that they're going to re-read the law. I'm just saying, they need to go and learn, see what's happening today in this area. I thank both my fellow Stretovich and Mr. Tolstouch for paying attention to this problem. Today, it is cheaper to pay a fine than to buy, carry, and dispose of. Unfortunately, this is the case today: a fine of 51 bracelets, what is foreseen. And not to see it, not to see it, not to see it, not to impose requirements on the handling of household waste, where there is a separate collection of household waste, where, of course, there will be a serious burden on owners, of course, there will be a burden on local councils, of course, on raising a culture of handling these wastes in general, to be done by the authorities. That's the social ad you have to pay for, because it's the economy of all that goes into the future. So I suggest that we adopt this law in the first reading and that we adopt it as quickly as possible, and it is extremely useful for Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u164	Thank you. Vladimir Yavorowski is handing over the right to speak to Vladimir Bondarenko, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u165	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u166	Yes, please, Vladimir Alexanderovich Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u167	Dear colleagues! It seems that soon after a year or two or three, if the situation doesn't improve, but it will remain in a stagnation where it is today with garbage, it's a feeling that Ukraine will not be able to see from under the falls of the trash, nor from the bird's flight, nor even from space. Well, there's nothing to say. The people who listen to us, our electorate, understand this very well, that today, in fact, all the sideways of the road are just as good as the plastic that came and you know that it's practically undissolved. And this, if we don't deal with these problems, is literally for some other good and good decades. Not to mention, we are focusing on large cities, where the problem is particularly acute, but today, as the ever - clean objects of the state, such as inhabited areas, villages, are now sinking into these terrible wastes. And I think that the bill that I believe we are going to vote today because the Yulia Timoshenko Block supports it, it has a lot of interesting features, especially the requirement of sorting before burning. That you can't just burn everything with hammuses, we know how it can end. The fact that this law regulates a lot of things and places them in place, I'm convinced that it's just that I'm addressing my colleague Stretovich, it's just the beginning, of course, of this work to clean up a little bit of Ukraine from the terrible garbage we have. What's more, in the midst of an economic crisis today, you know, there's almost no funding for this sector, this segment of human activity in Ukraine. We know how the Kiev is surrounded by dumpsters today, and the same village of Podgorci or Krenichi, in which the Chernobyl wastes were once dumped, all these huge expressions on the body of Ukraine. That's why we have to vote in favour of this bill today in the first reading, and the comments that are before it, let's say, personally, then I'll submit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u168	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The bill has been discussed, and I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts in the Field of Waste Management. [[Registration number 2459]] [[Registration number 2459]] Please vote. [[13:26:08]] For 324 Decision taken. It is announced in the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on coastal protection strips. [[Registration number 2642]] Rapporteur: National Deputy of Ukraine Stretovich Vladimir Mikolajovic, co-rapporteur-first Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Shershun Mikola Haritanovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by the law amending some of the legislation on coastal protection lanes. Frankly, the motive for adopting such a bill was an interview by a Crimean woman who said that in Alushta there were so many beaches in concessions that it was impossible for citizens simply to get to water. There are the first swallows, a week ago in the city of Aluupka in the same Crimea, believing that this was done without proper experience, there are no documents, come out with fractures, bricks, and destroy all fences so that citizens can use the natural values of the seas and rivers. Another thesis. Today, according to UNEP, the UN Environment Commission says that 60 percent of the world’s population will experience the problem of drinking water. We don't usually feel it in Ukraine, except for the Steph Zone of Lvova, for example, where it's given in a timely manner, but it's an inevitable knock on the door, and by 2015, about 70 percent of the world's population will feel the water problem. In order to preserve natural springs, the filling of rivers must be done to ensure that they do not grow. Let the moment come from today's approval until the President's signature that we will ban construction in the coastal protection strip within 100 meters, where water is actually being reproduced, where fish stocks are being stocked, not what we have today in the state. This is the motive for saving our motherland of nature for future generations of Ukrainians, for trying to resolve the problem by law, and for asking environmental prosecutors, who unfortunately today do not perform their mission, although they earn very good money, sit in very good schemes. But in fact, our nature is getting worse and worse for consumption, and the time will come that there will be no place on earth to lay low and rest. Thank you. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u170	Mikola Haritonovich Shershun, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u171	Mikola Shershun, “Block Lithuania”. Dear Mr. Head, honourable national MPs, I fully support this concern, I share with my colleague Stretovic that the situation today with the protection and use of the coastlines of Ukraine is becoming a sign of danger, the regime of management in coastal protection lanes and water protection zones is being carried out with a clear violation of legislation. This is particularly true of the Coastal Territories. The existing imbalance in the management of agriculture and other activities within the coastal coastline threatens the loss of an ecosystem as such, leads to pollution of the marine environment, and makes it impossible to use the recreational potential of adjacent areas. The draft law defines the size and boundaries of the coastal protection zones of the seas, complements the list of restrictions on economic activity within coastal protection zones, and regulates the issue of ensuring citizens access to the seashore on general water use conditions. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has proposed to adopt the bill as a basis. The bill is supported by the Committee on Budget Affairs, the Committee on Health, the Ministry of Environmental Protection. The bill contains a number of comments that can be taken into account when preparing for the second reading. The Committee supports the need to resolve the issues mentioned and notes that the bill will help improve Ukrainian legislation, preserve the marine environment and the adjacent sea area. I propose to adopt the draft law as a basis. Please be supportive. And thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u172	Yes, thank you, Mikola Haritonovich. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for the bill. Yes, I'd like the names of the national deputies on the board. Yuri Carmazin. Vladimir Yavorowski will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u173	Yuri Carmazin. The Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense." Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! I point out to you that in the present Code of Land, the Code of Water in force provides that no one today will be prevented from going to sea without hindrance. Nevertheless, regardless of what this prohibition is, it is not being fulfilled. And today it was only the sea that was spoken of. Oh, Dnipro? Look, all the Dniper factories, take the border only in the Kyiv region. And you will see, and you will see that the trouble is not that there is no law, dear friend Volodymyr, not in this trouble. [[I'm not saying what we have above the seas anymore.]] Good law, I'll vote for the first reading. The trouble is that there is no law, no good, and there is no law. Because we have a good Water Code, we have a good Earth code in some parts. So I would like us to take special advantage of the opportunity to listen to this bill, but we're still going to consider doing this project. We had the same thing in Allasta, Aluupka, and Gurzuf, we had people getting beaten up, we had criminal cases, we had people getting dragged, we had people from public organizations, and we were talking about Colonel Activist of the Party of Fatherland, who forbidded it. And I want to say, we have to adopt this law, but we have to control the executive power. So let's plan, I'm addressing you, Vladimir Mikhailovich! Let's plan parliamentary hearings to report both to the Ministry of Environmental Protection and to the Attorney General's Office, and to the Ministry of Internal Affairs on what's happening today and what's actually going on. And how do we get this situation back? We need to enforce the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u174	Vladimir Aleksandrovich Yavorovsky faction "Blank of Yulia Timoshenko".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u175	Dear colleagues! Vladimir Yavorowski. You know, I'm very pleased that my colleague Vladimir Stretovich has “broken” into lawmaking today. This problem is completely on the surface, we all saw it, we know it, but someone had to pick it up and put it on the legislative level, and the Yulia Timoshenko Block is grateful to Stretovich for that. This is indeed a colossal problem. If you think about the fact that, in fact, about 400 small rivers disappear each year from the map of Ukraine, I repeat, about 400 small rivers. And given what's going on in Kiev, here's my colleague Vladimir Bondarenko, who was just talking to him, he confirms that 90 percent of the water that Kiev has today is no longer a lake, it's no longer a pond where you can bathe, it's called a hard, scary word of water for firewater all in all. This is what we are in today’s situation. I, here, have touched the problems of the same Dniper that was made in Concha-Sleep, which today literally makes the Kiev authorities in our eyes, if we can call it power today with the Dnieper Island, which is actually being pointed at, it's actually disappearing from the face of the earth, a unique gift of nature that has been given to many generations of Ukrainians today, in fact, before our eyes, it's already being destroyed, it's happening, it's being forgotten there and so on. Because, well, once again, I say, although this law may not be so hard if, let's say, I wanted it and, I think, and many wanted it, but it must be accepted, it has a normalization, let's say, and the beach zones, it's very good that they're marked, what there is, means that there's access to the shores, so that we can save for the offspring and our, that means, the seas and our rivers. Because of this, Yulia Tymoshenko will vote in favour of this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u176	Vladimir Ivanovich Landik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u177	Respectable colleagues seem to be both necessary and important, but I don't think that's the point. If we believe that we must ban all construction at sea, if we take Crimea and it is written in a bill, then it turns out that sanatoriums, children's houses of rest we have to build somewhere in Crimea in the area of the lagoon or better in Djankoe. We're an open country, and we want guests to come and rest. I think Stretovich should never have done it the first time, but the second time in Egypt, he was caught and seen, and he wasn't released because of it, and they wouldn't let him go. You can see that there's everyone building as close to the sea as possible, another thing that's an open beach area, no one has the right to close the beach, to put any fences in any country of the world on the beach. We've closed off all the coasters in our departmental sanatoriums. This is where the law needs to be applied, the coastline opened. And the sanitariums, please shut up behind the beach and so on. And you have to build as close as you can on the water as you can, anywhere you want. And let's think about what to do about what children like "Son at Sea" are built? What about boating all the cooperatives? What about rescue stations? We should be smart about this. You can't squander, you can't throw, you have to clean and open the sea to have free access to the shores, to the beaches, and so on. And if we are, as far as we can drive people away, we will drive them away from our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u178	Strutovich, please, microphone. The replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u179	A replica of Vladimir Aleksandrovitch’s words that broke me into such lawmaking. I've had 27 drafts broken in this call, and it worked out so well that they are now in the order of the day since May last year. And the Landik colleagues, exactly what he's saying, are written in a bill that clearly states that within the beach zone, it's the beach area, the coastal lanes are prohibited from building any building, except for hydrotechnical, hydrometric and linear, where you have boat stations, all of it. It's all foreseen, you can't do industrial construction. And the second is about opening beaches. It says that if someone took a piece of the beach in a concession, he is obliged to provide an open passage along the coastline so that you can get up early and run three miles [3 km] one way, the other way and walk to the sea. This is what this bill foresees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u180	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. The committee proposes to accept it as a basis. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on coastal protection strips. [[Registration number 2742]] Please vote. [[13:39:02]] For 223 The decision is not taken. Who's for going back to the draft law, please make up your mind. [[Registration number 2642]] On the return to consideration. [[13:39:32]] For 241 We went back to reviewing the draft law. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act, namely: to amend certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[Registration number 2642]] [[on coastal protection lanes]] [[13:40:03]] For 254 For 254, the decision is made. The factions, please. Region Party – 2, "Club of Timoshenko" – 154, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 57, communists – 25, "Club of Lithuania" – 16. Dear colleagues, let us speak relatively in order. Then you take the results of the vote and you see what the results of the vote are. And then there's going to be a lot of talk, and that's what's going on in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Citizenship Act is being announced for consideration. [[on the elimination of collegiates allowing dual citizenship]] [[Registration number 2752]] And here we're essentially going to have the following drafts: 3102, 3102-1, but first we're going to look at the bill for registration number 2752, please. The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations, Oleg Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u181	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, dear colleagues. Rubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Article 4 of the Basic Law of our State establishes that there is only one nationality in Ukraine. Thus, Ukrainian society, in its view of citizenship as an institution of relations between a person and a state, is determined that the consolidation of a single citizen is the most appropriate to national interests. However, today's series of U.K. Nationality Bills practically allows for violations of the Constitution and the acquisition of dual citizenship while not taking responsibility for it. The non - acceptance of dual citizenship for Ukraine is based on the fact that the exercise in the full extent of the dual, or State of rights and obligations is impossible, since they often conflict with one another. Thus, a person with dual citizenship is always faced with the need to determine which State should and should not carry out its duties? In this situation, they tend to seek the protection of their rights to one State while ignoring the duties of another. And failure to perform one of its duties calls into question the full realization and protection of the rights and freedoms of others — those who have one nationality — the vast majority of the population of Ukraine. What is particularly important about this issue is that bipolarism allows people with dual citizenship to act against the requirements of legislation without even stopping at acts that qualify as a crime. [[dual-party]] Because in the event of a flight from justice to another country, a person avoids responsibility, because any State does not betray its own citizens in accordance with the approach that is common in international law. The problem of dual citizenship, and even more so in the process of legislation, is particularly relevant to States that are just going through a period of development, such as Ukraine. So here's a demo.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u182	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u183	Bipatrism, therefore, demobilizes society, halts the process of creating common values, development priorities, the unity of the people. My bill proposes to introduce very specific things, very few of them, which will not be allowed to abuse legal commissions and acquire two citizenships. And by the way, that's what the people who have these possibilities are using, first of all. Once again, the vast majority of citizens have one citizenship, and we have to think about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u184	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Please sign in. It's happening. a record is being held. Names on the board, please escort the national deputies who are registered. Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Karmazin will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u185	Vladimir Yavorowski. Respectable Society! Dear voters! Today, Vladimir Mikhailovich, it seems to me that we are not to charm a very interesting legislative day, so we are looking at the system of laws that we have gathered together. And it's very good that we came to this problem, and it's really painful today in Ukraine. You know there's a lot of talk going on somewhere today, but there's already some indisputable facts about the absolute presence of many Ukrainians, citizens of Ukraine, of dual citizenship. And the fact that we're completely different deputies on different sides came to this subject, and I want to say right away that these two following laws are, in fact, also complete the bill that Zarubinsky's colleague passed. [[and Shevchuk, and mine]] This is a very important subject. I'm going to report my law, and then I'm going to expand it a little bit to save time, and today I want to say that the Yulia Timoshenko Block will support this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u186	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u187	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear National Deputies! We come from what is and must be the rule of action of the Constitution of Ukraine throughout Ukraine on all legal relations. I exclude the statements made by some factors, including the constitutional guarantees that the Constitution is imperfect, so it needs to be reworked, and everyone concludes that it is not necessary to do so, unfortunately. And a lot of conclusions are made, and those, including we know by the owners of the mass media, the banks, when they're now beginning to intervene in this area. What Is Revealed? Our bankers, our cable owners, are citizens of other states, but including Ukrainian citizens. That's disgusting! Let's see what list of countries that are stimulating this. It's usually the Russian Federation. It's usually Switzerland. It's usually Israel. Three countries use this and make it appear that they do not see or observe and do not respect the Ukrainian Constitution. I remind you that article 4 of the Constitution states that there is only one nationality in Ukraine and that the grounds for acquisition and termination are determined by law. That is why I am grateful to the drafter of the bill for having clearly foreseen, in which cases there may be cancellation of decisions on the formation of Ukrainian citizenship. And that is when false information, or false documents, was given, or hidden any substantial fact that a person could not acquire Ukrainian citizenship. And then, dear friends, here's the reason for losing citizenship -- that's the change to article 19, which is very well written. And I'm surprised, and I'd like to ask the head of the Apparatus, Mr. Zajczuk, to see if there's a dual citizenship in those who have concluded that the bill should be sent for second reading. We should take it in the first reading. and persons with other citizenship.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u188	Thank you. Ivan Vasilovich Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u189	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, since the exclusion from the first part of article 19 of the law of a provision that establishes cases that are not considered to be voluntary acquisitions of another nationality is combined with the simultaneous expansion of the concept of “voluntary acquisition of citizenship”, the result will be a narrowing of the content and scope of existing rights and freedoms, which is contrary to the requirements of part three of article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine. In fact, all the cases provided for in article 19, paragraph 1 of the original original edition of article 19, such as cases that are not voluntary acquisitions of another nationality, will become such a voluntary acquisition by the project in cases where the person concerned has received documents that testify to the nationality of another State. Thus, the persons concerned will be considered to have lost their citizenship. However, article 14, paragraph 1, of the European Convention on Citizenship, ratified by the Ukrainian Act of 20 September 2006, contains an imperative requirement for States parties to allow children who have automatically acquired different citizenship at birth to keep that citizenship and to allow their citizens to have another nationality if that other nationality is automatically acquired in connection with marriage. Cases are currently regulated in paragraphs "a" and "in" of paragraph 3 of paragraph 1 of the first part of article 19 of the Ukrainian Citizenship Act. Then, except for the corresponding provisions of the proposed law, there will be a conflict between the provisions proposed in draft article 19 of the above - mentioned law and the provisions of the European Convention on Civility. As a result, we need to think about what kind of person we have at the level of Europe. That's why the Party of Regions opposes the adoption of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u190	I ask you to calm down, dear colleagues. Please calm down. The committee's offering to take it as a basis. First of all, it is government officials, officials, not ordinary citizens, not private citizens. This is why the proposal for a committee to adopt is based on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Nationality Act on the elimination of collegiates allowing dual citizenship. Please vote. [[13:50:39]] For 233 Decision taken. [[Applause]] By factions, please: Region Party - 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 153, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense - 60, Communists - 0, Litvina Block - 20. There are proposals to put a vote on acceptance as a whole. Is there a denial? One, two, three. I see three objections, I can't, unfortunately, put up, honourable colleagues. It is proposed to continue our work until the conclusion of the debate, i.e. no more than 15 minutes before the completion of the consideration of related bills, on amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[Registration number 3102, 3102-1]] [[on the responsibility for concealing or acquiring citizenship in another State]] Reporter: National Deputy of Ukraine, Sweden, Viktor Dmitrovich, National Deputy, Yavorowski Vladimir Aleksandrovich. And the co-reporter is the first deputy head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and National Relations, Teren Viktor Vasilovich. Victor Dmitrovich, please. We continue our morning session for 15 minutes or until the conclusion of our consideration of the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u191	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The addition to the law that the Supreme Council has now adopted in the first reading, I and my colleague, National Deputy MacKeenko, propose to amend some of the legislative acts of Ukraine that would be responsible for concealing the fact of dual citizenship or multiple citizenship. Dear colleagues! As has already been said, article 4 of the Constitution of Ukraine, in accordance with article 4 of the Constitution, there is only one citizen in Ukraine. However, in individual regions there are numerous facts regarding the acquisition by Ukrainian citizens of the citizenship of other states. This situation cannot be without concern, for it poses a threat to the national security of the state, creating a basis for external service in Ukraine’s internal affairs. This problem is particularly important in the context of recent events in some neighboring countries. If we reject emotions, it becomes clear that the critical mass of citizens with dual citizenship who are not known by public authorities is the source of a potential, serious threat. The existence of dual citizenship allows individuals to act despite the requirements of the law without stopping at the possibility of being held accountable because they know that States are not obliged to issue their own citizens – it stimulates irresponsibility. Dear colleagues! Because I would like to highlight the following detail in particular. We do not question the establishment of criminal or administrative responsibility for the very fact of dual or multiple citizenship. We propose to establish responsibility for the fact that a person who has dual citizenship or multiple citizenship within the time limits established by law has not notified the relevant public authorities of the presence of such a dual.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u192	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u193	And only if such a citizen has failed to report in due time does that give rise to responsibility. I think, fellow citizens, we are all citizens of a great country and we should be proud to be citizens of Ukraine, and those citizens who disregard the rights of the State, the Constitution of Ukraine, illegally acquire dual citizenship must be held accountable. And we suggest that we set up such a responsibility. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u194	Thank you. Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, we are discussing, we are looking at a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u195	I want to confirm once again for our voters and, above all, that we are looking at three bills today is very important. Because the institution of citizenship in every state is a key institution and that in Ukraine today we have a chaotic situation, the Constitution clearly means one single Ukrainian citizenship, but the law on citizenship is not so clear that it only identifies one single position that one cannot be a citizen, let's say, other territories in Ukraine, let's say Crimea there and so forth. But in the law itself, one citizen, frankly, has not been written, obviously that's what has called Zarubinsky, has called both Sweden and me to clarify these points. Whether there are nations on the planet today that are cultivating dual citizenship and there is nothing strange about it, that is what Israel is doing, it is understood, the nation has been scattered all over the planet, and today those who live in Israel and those who do not live there want citizenship and have health. Or maybe, let's say today, let's say this is Ukraine, a young state that's just stopping up on its feet, if it was, say, a dual citizenship that's already been considered in the Russian Duma and they're asking the question that it's going to be such a voluntary choice, so to speak, of dual citizenship. The issue of military service is immediately raised. Where will the Ukrainians serve? In Russia, will they serve in Ukraine? There is an immediate election problem if there is a dual citizenship. We can bring people back tomorrow during the presidential or not presidential elections from Russia to Ukraine or Ukraine to Russia and so on. Because of that. And the problem of ownership, the privatization process has not yet ended, dual citizenship gives certain opportunities to people from another state who have dual citizenship, to the same privatization processes. Based on this, actually, Zarubinsky proposed one approach, in fact, very easily today, I conclude that it is very easy for me to conclude by the three laws that we have proposed to unite them into one. There's absolutely no ambition of ours, let's say how the authors of the law we actually agreed on that. Maybe there's something to think about.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u196	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u197	On the Swedish bill, it may be necessary to consider whether the term is too harsh, such as whether there is a prison sentence or not. We need to think about it. I propose in my bill that people write a declaration that they have no other citizenship. That is, this person will be obliged to, say, a certain responsibility. Please vote on these two laws. And I guarantee that we will make one of them very normal, and very relevant and important to the Ukrainian State is the law on the only Ukrainian citizenship.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u198	Yes, from the committee's first deputy head of the Committee on Human Rights of National Minorities and International Relations, Teren Viktor Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u199	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I'll start with the facts. In Israel alone, over 50,000 people own Ukrainian and Israeli passports. According to the prosecutor’s office of Sevastopol at the end of 2008, 1,595 members of the Black Sea Navy of the Russian Federation illegally received Ukrainian passports. In general, some 20,000 Russian citizens in Sevastopol alone have Ukrainian passports. How many people have Ukrainian and Polish, Ukrainian, Romanian, and other passports in general do not even know. Why doesn't he know? Because the state is not tracking it down. The state does not track double citizenship because there is no tracking mechanism that is a citizen of only Ukraine or any other state. And so, on April 15, 2009, our committee discussed two bills at its meeting: the Swedish and Makeianka National Deputies Bill, as well as the Yavorowski People's Deputy Bill, which provide mechanisms for tracking dual citizenship in Ukraine. I want to emphasize that these bills do not affect the acquisition of citizenship, they allow the state to know at least how many of its citizens have dual Israeli, Romanian or any other citizenship. The committee decided to propose and ask for support for the Yavorowski bill, which, according to the committee, provides a clearer mechanism for reporting to citizens of Ukraine on the acquisition of citizenship of another country. The point is that this is just a declaration. I'm going to personally say I'm going to vote for both bills. If both bills, one of them gets more votes, then we can work together, but we suggest we accept the basis. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u200	Thank you! Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for a bill discussion. There's a recording of the performance. Please put the names of the national MPs on the board. Eugene Kirilchuk faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u201	Thank you! Eugene Kirilchuk faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear colleagues! Perhaps this whole process began when we formed and voted against nationality in the passport. I think that every Ukrainian citizen is proud of his nationality and must proudly record that he is a Georgian, that he is Armenian, that he is a Russian, but he is a Ukrainian citizen. But I think we should get back to that. The other one. I'd like to find out here how many people are sitting in this room and have dual citizenship, and they wouldn't have the right to be national MPs, but they're hidden. I think we should also follow up on our regulatory committee on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u202	People's Deputy Davidenko, faction of Our People's Self-Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u203	Please pass the word to the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u204	John the Rabbit, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u205	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Why do we have to support this bill? Because, first of all, the drafters want to harmonise national legislation, they want to bring the Citizenship Act into line with the requirements of our Constitution, which speaks of Ukraine's only legislation. Secondly, they want to make such a situation that it is not possible to manipulate a civil institution within the country. Who opposes the adoption of this bill? One who wants to use a dual - citizen institution to dispel conflicts within the country. Let's not hide our heads, remember Georgia, remember South Ossetia, remember the other parts on which the beginning of this war was based? It's because one of the countries, Russia, went to protect their citizens as if they were in a foreign territory. Therefore, we need citizenship alone in order to have peace and peace in Ukraine. And the third. It must be the responsibility of every citizen for his actions, if he is the only citizen, in which case the citizen is accountable to his people, to his country in terms of military service, he is responsible for even criminal responsibility. Again, from our own experience, we see that very many people who have committed crimes in Ukraine today are hiding outside their borders, covering for foreign citizenship. So if we want to build a European state, if we want to build a democratic state where citizens have rights and have some responsibility to the state, we have to adopt these bills. I call on those who block the adoption of these bills to step down and act within the framework of the law to act within the framework of the Constitution. Let's vote and take it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u206	Anna Mikolayevna Herman, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u207	Dear colleagues, we are very often speaking on behalf of the people, but before that we will not ask the people themselves whether the people give us the right and legitimacy to speak on the matter. Western sources indicate that 10 million Ukrainians are working in Western countries today. Ask those people: Would they like to have citizenship in the countries where they work? And they'll tell you, yes. You ask those people: Would they want to give up their citizenship, their state? And they'll tell you, no. Because our nation has not allowed them to work and receive a decent salary in their country. Our nation cannot protect them from all the hardships they face. Then give them the right to be free. Give them the opportunity to have Ukrainian citizenship and citizenship, such as Portugal, where Ukrainians, Poland, and the Czech Republic work extensively. Let us think that the world is globalizing, and we are closing ourselves in our tent and beating ourselves in the chest on behalf of a people who will soon be no longer in Ukraine at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u208	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The point is that the Constitution of Ukraine requires one citizenship. And this is primarily about leaders, about politicians who are temporarily resident and living in two countries. Let's get out of the way, it's not about ordinary people who, thanks to these policies, are forced to look for a better life outside the country. That's why you're treating me. The committee thus proposes: Bill 3102 reject, Bill 3102-1 accept as a basis. But in accordance with the Rules, I am voting on the adoption as the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the responsibility for concealing or acquiring citizenship in another State]] [[14:06:17]] For 235 Decision taken. But I want you, my dear fellows, to focus your attention on that when we now vote for the next document, so that we don't have any difficulty with the committee's work. I'm betting on the vote because you insist, I'm betting on the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] The committee claims that they are not alternatives. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please microphone by Volodymyr Alexandrovich Yavorowski. If a bill is registered under the same number, it is an alternative.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u209	Dear colleagues, my bill and Sweden are absolutely not alternatives, they complement each other. [[Here comes Sweden.]] I told you from the rostrum that my bill suggested that a person should write a declaration that he was not a citizen. It's a civilized norm. A person is responsible for what he puts under it. The Swedish bill is quite different. Because of this, I have already said from the rostrum, we are very easy to unite, and we will have one good law, and by the second reading we will do so. That's it. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u210	Dear colleagues, we are now putting to the vote draft Law 3102-1. Change the vote. Please, colleague Klukkowski. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thus, when preparing for the second reading, it should be supplemented, you know, but not adopted by two bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u211	Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, does not create problems for ourselves. There are two bills on one subject. They are united as alternatives to the order of the day. They reported together, discussed together. If we wanted to adopt both of these in the first reading, then a decree would be made to have the committee unify these two bills in preparation for the second reading. There is no such commission. So I think the committee is perfectly capable of taking into account the position of one of the bills in preparing for the second reading. And that takes away the problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u212	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinsky, then Yuri Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u213	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. But I don't think Yuri Carmazin will have to say anything anymore, because the main committee is the committee I lead. The situation was normal, i.e. there were two, indeed, alternative bills. The first was registered to Sweden, then taking into account the positions and proposals of the scientific and expert administration, the honourable Vladimir Alexandrovich passed his bill. So if it happened that the first bill, co-workers of Sweden, was voted in the first reading, then there's a bill that was voted before me, and so in the committee we're completely able to create a working group in preparation for the second reading, a colleague of Yavorowski will enter this working group, and all these positives that he has, one hundred percent will be included. We'll go to the Supreme Council with a joint bill. There's no need to vote now, they're really put into the agenda as alternatives. We made a decision, that's fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u214	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u215	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich! The Yavorowski bill, which is called “For the Declaration on Foreign Citizenship”, foresees a supplement, starting with the first article of the Ukrainian Citizenship Act, and the Swedish-Makenenko Bill from only 19 primaries. articles - making changes. So there are articles, a couple of articles that aren't alternative, that's the first. But they both have to be accounted for. So I would, in any case, if you put this proposal to the vote -- the 3102 bill, which goes under the same number, and unfortunately, that's what happened, I would ask you to ask questions about the commission of the committee to unify them, and then two authors would be, more loyal to the three authors -- Sweden, MacKeenko and Yavorowski, so that their copyright would not be violated, but to make one bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u216	Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u217	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished colleagues, I fully agree with my colleague Zarubinski. Well, his bill is really best, to take as a base, to make a working group without haste, seriously in the summer to prepare and in September/month to pass a single bill. Work well on vacations and draft a bill in September. I think we will vote by constitutional majority, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u218	Dear colleagues, we exchanged our thoughts and let us make progress as required by the Rules, since they were. We were looking at one question, and there were two alternative bills when we considered the issue. If we take two bills as a basis, we're going to have to put two bills on the second reading. Please tell me this will happen. Therefore, honourable colleagues, when preparing for second reading, all these proposals can be included in a bill sponsored by the national deputy of Ukraine, Sweden, Victor Dmitrovich. So given that, when the Supreme Council of Ukraine supported the first draft of the law, the second we cannot put to the vote, otherwise we will not prepare any drafts for the second reading. Therefore, with this in mind, it is considered acceptable in view of the fact that more than 230 deputies have supported the bill, and we protocolly prepare the commission in preparation for the second reading to take into account, consider, and consider the proposals made by the Ukrainian national deputy Vladimir Oleksandrovitch Yavorowski. [[Registration number 3102]] This will be in line with the Rules. With this in mind, the honourable colleagues, the morning meeting of the Supreme Council. [[B in m in s a l in]] Why do they vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, it is suggested that the committee be entrusted with processing it under reduced procedure. Please, I'm voting on the drafting of bills 2752, 3102. Please vote. [[14:13:12]] For 221 That is, working in accordance with the Rules. National MP Philenko, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u219	Dear Chairman, I apologize. After you actually announced a break, we pulled out a piece of the cards, and we couldn't put them in. I ask you to re-vote, we are physically unable to put the cards back.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m0.u220	Ladies and gentlemen, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Let's get back to work at 4:00.
