ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:51]] Four hundred national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Adventure Anton Vicentiovich. Let us welcome our colleague, and wish us good health. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I give you the summary of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from March 3rd to March 6th. Six plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine took place, and 78 issues of the agenda were considered. As a result of the review: 18 laws and 58 regulations were passed, 17 bills were adopted on a basis, four bills and two draft decrees were sent back for re-reading, one bill was returned to the committee for drafting, 13 bills and two draft regulations were rejected. According to the President of Ukraine's proposals: two laws have been passed taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine, the veto of the President of Ukraine has been overrun by four laws, one law has been passed to the Main Committee, two laws have been rejected. 105 parliamentary inquiries have been announced. Now for the announcements, dear colleagues. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and according to the minutes of the parliamentary faction of the Yulia Timoshenko bloc, the political parties: the All-Ukrainian “Batakščina”, the Ukrainian Social-Democratic Party, the Party “Reforms and Order” since March 5, 2009, I inform that the deputy head of the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko” has been elected National Deputy of Ukraine Shustik Olen Jurijovna. [[Applause]] And one more thing, dear colleagues. At 3 p.m., there will be a meeting with the heads of the MP factions in the Cabinet of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In addition to the issues that we agreed to continue at this meeting, I inform you that the President of Ukraine has filed for appointment as Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine Shamshur, who is the Ambassador of the United States, so at the Conciliation Council meeting, we will discuss the way in which this matter is dealt with as well. Dear National Deputies! In accordance with article 25 of the Rules, Tuesday 30 minutes are allocated for statements by authorized factions with proposals, announcements, and messages. I'd like the factions to sign up for the performance. Attention! There's a recording going on. I'd like you to put on the board the name of the national MPs who signed up. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Oleg Zarubinsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u2	Respectable citizens! Dear voters! Dear colleagues! A week ago, a faction of the Ukrainian Company prepared and published an application for the need to remove President Yushchenk of Ukraine from his post in order to impeach him to commit crimes against the State and people of Ukraine. The statement that we have sent to the leaders of all the parliamentary factions lists the undeniable facts of the deliberate violations of the laws of Ukraine and the Constitution of Ukraine by President Yushchenk, as well as the evidence of his or her actions, which can be classified as treason, as an assault on the overthrow of the constitutional system, to capture the state power by violent means. These facts are widely known, so I will list the most violent of them, namely: illegal decrees on the dissolution of the Supreme Council in 2007 and 2008; an attempt to usurp power in Ukraine, particularly through obstruction of justice and to this end the collapse of the entire judicial system, including the Constitutional Court. Illegal decrees and orders on the direction and subordination of the power structures, primarily the BSC, the State Protection Authority, the internal forces, the Ministry of Internal Affairs; gross violation of the Constitution in the formation of the National Security Council. You can continue this list for a long time: it's part of its gas affairs, it's a trade war with Russia, it's an illegal arms trade in Georgia, it's involving Ukraine in NATO, it's signing a protocol on Ukraine's entry into WTO, it's betraying a national producer. In general, during the reign of Yushchenka, corruption, extortion became the cornerstone of the state policy of the "orange" and cave nationalists. The direct robbery of the state and people, the destruction of the history of the cultural heritage, the propaganda of neo-Nazi ideology, have become an integral sign of “evenings. ” With its irresponsible, anti-State foreign policy, its attempts to involve Ukraine in NATO, its failure to adequately assess the internal situation of Yushchenko led Ukraine to the end of the financial and economic gap, along with its political forces, which brought it to power; it undermined the authority of our state in the world, it completely lost the trust of Ukrainian citizens. Unfortunately, some of our colleagues, who repeatedly claimed that it was necessary to remove Yushchenk from power, and in the Supreme Council, talked about it, despite the numerous accusations that were made by their mouths at the President's address, did not respond to our call. We'll wait, and then we'll call those who support Yashchenk right now. Covering up with inadequacies such as “we will not be able to complete the impeachment procedure” or “there is no proper legislative basis”, they are actually protecting Yashchenka today from criminal responsibility, betraying their constituents who are demanding the trial of a political criminal, President Yushchenk. On behalf of the Company and our faction, I state that the existing legal framework, such as Article 111 of the Constitution and the relevant decisions of the Constitutional Court, allow not only to begin but also to complete the procedure for President Yushchenk's impeachment this year. It takes political will, and it's not in a lot of strong capital to do that, and it can't be, because they're with it the expression of interests as a powerful capital, and they've created a political system that protects the interests of this capital. However, it is when they like to, for example, negotiate with the President on the creation of a “broad”, sign separate agreements and involve the country in illegal elections at a certain time. Or when, as is now the case in Ternopol, in the face of an irreconcilable confrontation in the people, they're behind the scenes with the EU Presidential Balogite and the pulleys about cooperation, that is, they're working on their actions during the next election campaigns to the councils of all levels. Dear citizens, I address you! Our country’s history, world history, teaches that supporting nationalists leads to Fascism. By funding the election of nationalists in Ternopol, they did their utmost to ensure that nationalists, followers of Fascist ideology, came to power in Ternopolska. You can't let that happen. That is why it is essential for us in principle that the crimes of Yushchenka are properly assessed before the people and the State. And even if the deputies of the other factions don't support us, and the Supreme Council doesn't start the impeachment procedure, I'm sure there will be a day when the evidence base of our submission will be the basis for the discovery by the Attorney General of a criminal case against the citizen of Yushchenka, his supporters, as the basis for the trial. Yushchenko promised.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u3	Finish up, please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u4	Yushchenko promised prison bandits. We will help him fulfill his promises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u5	Oleg Zarubinsky, the “Block of Lithuania” faction, is invited to the presentation. Prepare Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u6	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Respectable citizens, respectable colleagues! Against the backdrop of the harsh political struggle, the mutual personal accusations of the powerful, the cosmic projections of the simple issues that concern millions of ordinary citizens, the problems that directly affect their rights daily, the rights of people, are often perceived as petty, secondary issues that may have been solved in principle, but then again. The “Clock of Lithuania” categorically rejects such an unfair logic and considers it wrong. So now I want to stop at three legislative initiatives of our faction, drafted in the form of bills and registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. First. To date, law enforcement authorities have been given the right to use photo and video footage to document traffic violations. However, by allowing the police to use appropriate controls, the mechanism for their application was not regulated. As a result, the real task of surveillance cameras was to raise additional funds, fines from the population, and not to reduce road traffic offences. Thus, the innovation became fiscal, rather than prejudiced, against traffic rules. We suggest that the use of law enforcement agencies, photo and video surveillance to detect and detect traffic violations is only possible if appropriate signs are installed that alert drivers to the use of video cameras. In addition, it should be assumed that the attraction to administrative responsibility on the basis of photos and videos takes place only when the fixation of the traffic rules took place in the area defined by the special signs where the surveillance takes place. The other one. To date, criminal responsibility for theft occurs only when the amount of stolen property exceeds 907 dollars 50 dollars. For example, stealing 900 dollars leads only to a fine and a small one, by the way. Such a situation creates prerequisites for unpunished assaults on foreign property, the property of ordinary people, and the corresponding increase in petty crime. Moreover, the amount that determines the criminal punishment of theft is one and a half minimum wage, which is more than the monthly income of a large part of the population. Thus, such theft has a significant impact on their well - being and thus has a clear antisocial meaning. And I'll add that most of the victims are children, women, and older people. The Lithuanian Bloc suggests that criminal responsibility should come for theft, starting with 300 bracelets, not 907 as it is now. And secondly, the indicator that defines the administrative or criminal responsibility for the offence is to establish, not the value of the stolen property, but the amount of damage caused by the laws to the owner of the theft, because the kidnapper often damages the woman's purse, such as the car, the premises. And the third. There are always many willing to talk about the fight against corruption, but in practice such monologues rarely go into concrete proposals. As a result, such matters are prolonged, and those responsible avoid responsibility. Why? Because it seemed that in this crime of corruption, the guilty person is always, always established. No, because there's a possibility of a fact-finding case, not a personal case. That's why Block of Lithuania has made the appropriate proposals that if a criminal act is committed, a criminal case should be brought against a particular person, who again, I will say, and this is the specificity of a case, when corruption is always established. We are convinced that the rights and interests of people and nothing else should be at the centre of political attention and activity. Politicians who don't understand it or don't want to understand it don't need it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u7	Yes, please, the faction of the "Timoshenko Block" of July.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u8	Dear voters! Dear National Deputies! Honorable Predestination! Let me make a statement to the Yulia Timoshenko block about the events in Ternopilska. On March 15, 2009, a dangerous farce was held in the Ternopil region by officials in charge of the Balogo government, with brutal violations of Ukrainian legislation and the Constitution. As warned by the “Julia Tymoshenko Block” there have been numerous forgings during the voting process. Yes, the actual number of people who voted did not exceed 30 percent. But about an hour before the end of the vote, 20 percent of the ballots were cast. Another evidence of massive falsifications was the second result of Baloga’s “One Center ” election. Beginner political scientists know that a party that has zero zero ten percent of its impact and rating, both across the country and in specific areas, cannot succeed without falsification. Forgers did not count one: only the idea that Ternopilska could give the Baloga party 15 percent of the votes is a direct insult to the inhabitants of the region. Ternopil has always voted for freedom, for independence, for democracy. For such ones as Balhoa, he would never vote or vote. What happened in Ternopol allows us to say with concern that yesterday there was a test of a total system of forging voting that could be applied both in the election of the President of Ukraine and in all subsequent elections. These were the most dirty and cynical elections in the history of an independent Ukraine. Balog officials have shown that it is possible not to count on the Ukrainians, to have neither party structures nor authority to ensure the desired outcome. It is only worth controlling the work of the election commissions. That is why the Ternopil precedent is of particular importance and must be taken into control by the forces of democracy in order to prevent falsification in the future. If the forces of democracy do not now resist these shameful events, then tomorrow these forgeries will become the norm. “Julia Timoshenko’s block” did not participate in a show called “Ternopil elections” and did not recognize their results. We have warned about this in advance and thank our supporters, most of whom did not participate in this dirty show. We're going to sue the results of these elections in court. We will never allow ourselves to be forged by Baloga for the opinion of the district dwellers. And a few more words from myself, like the person who in the last days of the election campaign, so-called, was directly in Ternopilsland. We all know that all sociology unanimously showed that it would be about 80 percent. In fact, the phenomenon was 30 percent. Another 20 percent were drawn. But it's not in arithmetic either. There's not enough, at least, 30 percent. And that's what shows the unprecedented manipulation of numbers. The voter turnout, they said, was no more than 8 percent by the tenth hour. And that's clear, people in Galicín go to church on Sunday mornings, and then they go to other places. But from 15 to 19 hours, there's more than 15 percent increase in appearance. Finally, only 50 percent of the appearances were made. And I want to remind you, that's because Terenopolska has always voted very actively for democracy, and the turnout has been at least 85 percent. The city of Ternopil voted only 30 per cent, and there are more than 70 per cent of the people who have listened to the thought of the “Julia Timoshenko Block”. As far as the results are concerned, the result of the Party of Regions, which itself says she didn't expect it to happen. How can it be explained that in some areas the result is 4 percent and in some 25 percent? I think it can only be explained by the fact that a political bribe was given. And if you want, this is a proposal from the EC and the Party of Regions to cooperate in future presidential elections. We are for the will of our citizens. We respect the choice of our citizens, but we have been and remain opposed to this choice being drawn in the offices of the Presidential Offices and their supporters. And that's what we've been watching in Ternopolska. We believe that the direct responsibility of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General’s Office, is to conduct a thorough investigation into all illegal activities during this electoral campaign. A little bit more results. Hysterical screams are being made that the future is the result of the loss of its rating. I want to give you an example. Of the four rural councils that had the election of heads, only three were defeated by the representatives of BUTU, with a percentage of between 50 percent and 91.67. And finally, I want to say that today we have set a dangerous precedent. This is the first step, indeed, to legal vandalism, when the guarantor, along with his office, urged citizens not to comply with Parliament's decision. Sam.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u9	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u10	It was Parliament that made that decision. And no one, no court ruling at this time, has canceled after that minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u11	Mikola Martinenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Please, your performance. And the next is by Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u12	Dear Head, dear colleagues! Ukraine and the world are experiencing an economic crisis. It has the same characteristics everywhere: decline in production, inflation, unemployment. But in Ukraine, there is one exclusive trait of crisis -- fear in society, fear of the future. But fear results from the powerlessness of the spirit. It is regrettable that in Ukraine, those who are to strengthen the spirit of the people are undermining it. We keep hearing from politicians about what seems to be the coming defolt, hyperinflation, and other horrors. The situation is, of course, very difficult. But this is not a cause for panic and tension. Together, we can stabilize the situation. I mean the President, the government, the Supreme Council, the National Bank. Moreover, it is our responsibility and responsibility to the electorate. The government’s joint councils gave hope for a joint response to the crisis. True, the truce was disrupted by all kinds of “mask-shows. ” But now we see that at least temporarily our own politicians' ambitions have been pushed aside. This allowed Ukraine to build a consolidated position on continuing its cooperation with the International Monetary Fund. But today, restoring effective co-operation with the IMF is key to a successful fight against the crisis. It is also a prerequisite for obtaining financial assistance and borrowing from the World Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and other international organizations. So I welcome the government's decision to go to the IMF's proposals and refuse to control Natzbank for the refinancing of commercial banks. The entire Ukrainian government is faced with two major tasks. Stabilize and maintain the country's financial system and cover the government budget deficit. This is vital in order to undergo the terrible storm that our economy has experienced, as is the case with other nations of the world. However, external influences are not enough to survive the Ukrainian economy. We're going to have to take unpopular steps. In particular, we should not avoid reducing certain budget costs. It is also fair for all authorities to say that the new rise in social spending is now unrealistic. In addition, it is appropriate to delay the introduction of a single tariff network for a certain period. These are difficult decisions, but Ukraine faces a difficult dilemma or lower taxes to save production and jobs, or increase taxes to increase social benefits. I think it's appropriate to come out of the idea of saving and expanding production and creating a resource for social security. Deregulation measures need to be taken and expanded, especially to promote small and medium-sized businesses, to prevent the conditions from worsening for small businesses. In today’s crisis, it is totally justified to reduce tax pressure. They've been doing this all over the world for a long time. Let's make the right decisions from the beginning of the second quarter of this year. These decisions may include: a reduction in the value added tax rate to 13-15 percent, together with the elimination of the income tax on this tax, this will result even in a reduction in taxation; a reduction in the income tax on enterprises; and a reduction in income tax on the fund; and a reduction in the tax pressure on the part of stimulating investment activities, as is practically done in all countries of the world. Clearly, this is far from a complete list of anticrisis measures, but the steps I have listed will not only have an economic effect. The willingness and power to make effective anticrisis decisions will also have a positive impact on society’s moral condition. Roosevelt, in the face of the Great Depression, said: “We have nothing to fear but fear.” When politicians are ready to act together, people hope that Ukraine will survive this crisis. I call all my colleagues to consolidation and to work. Let us not at times think about political statements, but they are of no interest to anyone today. We're looking for effective economic decisions to improve the state's situation here. The Supreme Council has to work from morning to evening and without politics. Many important bills need to be considered in order of the day. The "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" faction is ready for hard work, we hope for the joint action of the entire Parliament and we urge all colleagues to do so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u13	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, a faction of the Party of the Regions, is invited to the presentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u14	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, dear compatriots! The first and most important issue for us is the protection of Ukrainian citizens from the consequences of the crisis and the unprofessional, inefficient and harmful approaches taken by the State and people in this situation. Thus, we parliamentarians today have a double burden of protecting citizens from the crisis and from power. What does the Party of the Regions offer as the only opposition force in this situation? We support the establishment in Parliament of an anti-crisis centre, to which we propose to involve four parties: local authorities, trade unions, government and parliament. We believe that the main focus of anti-crisis activities should be placed on local self-government. What do I mean? The fact that local authorities in the regions are better aware of the real needs of the people and better know how to address these needs on the basis of local circumstances. On this basis, we call for a return to our idea of a shared responsibility of the State and business, with particular emphasis on the regional dimension. Thus, the monitoring of the situation would take over the anti-crisis centre of Parliament. We would listen to the Government's report in Parliament on the state of protection of people in each region of Ukraine every week. This would allow for a rapid and rapid response to the failures that constantly arise in the financing of budgetary institutions, schools, hospitals, pensions, disability assistance, and many-child families. The Government has systematically tried to hide such information. The anti-crisis centre of Parliament would take over the monitoring of the situation and help to address these issues expeditiously. The Social Crisis Programme of the Party of the Regions also includes a number of activities that guarantee the protection of the most vulnerable groups of pensioners, persons with disabilities, many children and single-parent families. One of our proposals is to restructure debt on housing and utilities for the poorest. It is known that the bulk of the income of low-income families is paid for public services. We propose restructuring the debt of these people and thus facilitating their lives. We propose, in the revision of the budget, that subsidies be increased to local authorities to ensure the social obligations of those authorities to the people. This is, as is known, a solution to health problems, education, unemployment benefits and so on. Indeed, we propose to address the problem of unemployment, including through local employment programmes, because it is on the ground that they know better what real jobs can be created or preserved in a particular region. The main means of implementing employment programmes should therefore go to regions rather than from the centre. This is a principled approach and only it can be effective. By initiating such programmes on the ground, using the idea of a shared responsibility of local authorities and the local budget, people can be helped much faster than by applying the principle of allocation of resources from the centre. This is about the initiatives we as the opposition propose in the social package of our anti-crisis programme. Now on the political challenges of the day, so to speak, the political crisis. The election in Ternopol was the most pronounced manifestation of the crisis. This is another lesson that illustrates the crisis of local self-government. While the Party of the Regions has had a good outcome in these elections, and although people have reiterated that they do not support the current power even in the regions of its traditional support, we are still questioning the need to change the electoral model, including in the local elections. Obtained lists would provide an opportunity to make the process more transparent, more understandable to citizens and more equitable. The Party of the Regions once again insists on changing the electoral model, and we will seek appropriate changes in electoral legislation. Respected members of the people, every day, every hour of our work, must be directed to the most important task: to protect citizens from the consequences of the economic crisis, which, due to the unprofessionalness and irresponsibility of the authorities, had a particular impact on Ukrainian citizens. In any country, whether from the west or the east side of our borders, people are not suffering as in Ukraine. Suffice it to say that we are the only country that has reduced food consumption by 40 per cent and 10 per cent of our citizens have already renounced meat consumption.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u15	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u16	Our task is to unite and face the crisis together, a clear, effective and anti-crisis plan. We must forget about party, ideological differences. There is only one task that needs to be focused on: protecting people. The Party of Regions is offering a moratorium on party disputes; we call on the power to less penetrate the presidential elections, to spare no effort to accuse each other of who is more to blame. The whole power is to blame, and she must resign. It's just a matter of time. But we must think and take care not of this today, but of the people in our country if we really want to stop the trouble that has come to our home. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the factions are over. The suggestions that have been made in the presentations, I ask that you carefully consider the Secretariat, prepare appropriate assignments. Dear colleagues, we have a schedule of meetings for today -- almost three dozen questions. On the Conciliation Council, pay attention! – we agreed that, taking into account the need for urgent consideration of all these issues, the first sentence would be put to the vote: that the evening meeting of the Supreme Council should continue until the conclusion of the Tuesday schedule. I'm going to put this motion to a vote. May I have your attention, please? The proposal is made that the evening meeting continue until the conclusion of Tuesday’s consideration of issues. Please vote. [[10:33:02]] For-174 The decision is not supported. Thank you. The second sentence shall be put to the vote. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, Timoshenko Block – 131, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 24, communists – 0, "Block of Lithuania" – 19. The second sentence shall be put to the vote. Consider bills by reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:33:40]] For 181 Decision taken. Now, one more question. Dear colleagues, before considering Tuesday’s schedule. Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, we discussed the finalization of the draft Law on the Protection of Citizens' Property Rights at a time when Ukraine's economy came out of a financial crisis. We've adopted this bill as a basis. He was directed to work on and prepare for the second reading of the committee headed by Sergey Anatolyovich Teryochin. In view of the fact that this committee has not considered the bill for a long time, it was agreed that we would send the bill to the Committee on Banking and Banking, headed by Mikola Janović Azarov. But since we have made a decision in this regard, honourable colleagues, we need to make the appropriate decision in the form of a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's what this is all about. To entrust the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking with the drafting of a bill that takes into account the comments and suggestions of the subject of the legislative initiative and to submit it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its second reading. Therefore, I would like to pay attention to the vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision, registration number 3459-1-P, please vote. [[10:35:33]] For 236 We've included in the agenda a draft of this decision. Now, I ask you to vote in favour of this decision, whose essence is to have this matter considered by the Committee on Finance and Banking, please vote. [[10:36:04]] For 365 Decision taken. Thank you. The draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on strengthening financial and budgetary discipline, registration number 2329, is announced. The focal point will be the head of the Committee's subcommittee on budget Kirilo Borisovich Kulikov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u18	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, is proposed for your consideration by the draft Ukrainian law, which is designed by the Chief Audit Authority to implement the government's decision to strengthen financial and budgetary discipline. He foresees making changes to nine laws. The results of the State Audit Service have shown that there are substantial financial violations in the system of central and local executives, as well as in enterprises, institutions and organizations, and that existing legislation often avoids liability. Thus established by valid legislation, the period of recourse to administrative responsibility from the date of the commission of the individual infringements, but from the day they are detected, makes it impossible to bring financial discipline violators to administrative responsibility, since the control measures are usually carried out by the DCRC authorities in the last two or three years. In order to address this issue, it is suggested that a separate deadline should be set for imposing administrative fees for breaches of financial legislation on the basis of the deadline for detecting such violations. In addition, the bill proposes a new edition of articles 164.2 and 164.12 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences as a result of the practice of applying them, as well as to differentiate the penalties they provide depending on the social danger of the offences committed. The project also addresses the issue of administrative responsibility for breaching the procedure for the use and write-off of municipal property and for impeding the authorities of the State Audit Service to carry out controls. The proposed amendments to the Ukrainian Criminal Code are aimed at strengthening
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u19	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u20	For breaking the law. The bill does not require additional financial costs and the proposed differentiation of administrative fines will allow for an increase in the budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u21	Kirilo Borisovich Kulikov, head of the Committee on Budget Affairs Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u22	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Budget Issues at its meeting held on 9 July 2008 considered this very important bill. The purpose of the bill is to increase financial and budgetary discipline, prevent inefficient use of government, municipal property, increase responsibility for illegal, purposeless use of budgetary resources, breach of budget legislation. I think it's a very important decision today, and it's an immediate decision. First, changes are being made to the Administrative Code, as Mr. Sivolski has said, because all offences that are all being established are being annulled by the court because they have been discovered for two or three years. That's why we need to do this, the offenses are administrative, two or three months from the time they're established. Changes are made to the Criminal Code. Because the amounts considered to be responsibility, the great responsibility, especially the great responsibility, is very great, and today in times of crisis, we must punish those who steal the budget. Amendments to the Act on Economic Societies, on State Audit Service, on Banks and Banking are also being made. The Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government supported the bill and suggested that it be adopted on first reading as a basis. The Committee on Combating Organized Crime also supports the bill and recommends its adoption as a basis. The Committee on Budgetary Questions supports this bill. There are some comments that we will consider before the second reading, especially making changes to the first reading of the new budget code, but we insist on this bill and recommend the adoption of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for a two-on-two. There's a recording going on. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. The Hungarian People's Deputy faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u24	National Deputy Unguryan, BUT faction. My fellow Members, I think that under the current financial and economic situation, this bill is extremely relevant and therefore the faction of the "Timoshenko Yulia Block" will unanimously support it and call upon the entire House to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u25	Thank you. Paul Sulkovsky faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, the Sulkovian faction of the Party of the Regions, I don't know if this law is going to help the state budget, or if it's going to add discipline and so on. I wish he would, but I don't believe it. And so I'd like to take this opportunity to ask you again today, Mikola Ivanovich, what the government did last year, you know, for compensation from the elements of agricultural production was allocated specifically to the Plain region of 20 million dollars. You know, it was set up by your institution, by the authorities of the KRU and the Accounting Chamber, which, in fact, the district government has disbursed, has stolen almost 50 dollars, 50 percent of 20 million, that is, about 10 million, and more specifically, 7 million of your confirmations with experts have been found to have stolen the funds. And you know, it's very strange that all the materials were handed over by the Attorney General's Office in the Rhineland area, and the prosecutor to this day does not violate the criminal case against these thieves, explains that it's as if those thieves, agricultural enterprises that have been given the opportunity to steal these funds, they're being judged by the CIA, they don't agree with the findings of the materials. I don't remember waiting for the D.A.'s office to end the lawsuits of these thieves from the C.R.I. So I don't think you should be watching and talking about these things either. The Attorney General simply sees what happens next, but he does not protect the state budget. If this is the attitude of the Attorney General's Office, it's just that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u27	Yuri Karmazin, faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u28	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, the introduction to this bill shows that he was preparing well, but there are some things that need to be addressed in order to work on. What impresses me in this bill, and why should it be accepted as soon as possible? I think it should be applied to those that are anti-crisis bills at all. Everything that's done today, when checked by the control and audit department, it's going, tail work. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary, correctly written, to be able to impose a retraction no later than two months after the date of the discovery of the offence, but not later than one year after the date of the commission of the offence. Otherwise it can't be instantaneous. Technology doesn't allow it. Next. The issue of accountability for the absence of accounting, the introduction of unreliable data into primary accounts and financial accounting registers is absolutely correct, as well as the non-indemnity of remedial measures taken with respect to the infringements of the legislators, the cost legislation that caused the damage or caused the shortfall. Because today they are often covered up by the fact that they do not keep account and cannot even be punished for it. In addition, I believe that the question of the completion of the Code with Article 188 of the 27 is correctly raised, and I mean the Administrative Code, where it is the responsibility of the officials of the State Audit Service to interfere with the implementation of State financial control. Along with one of the authors of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, I believe that the changes made to article 210 of the Criminal Code, which are reduced by just 2 times the monetary value of the concept of a large amount of budget and a particularly large amount of budget, are unfounded. They can't be supported. And I'm going to go against these changes, and I'm going to make changes to the second reading. On the first reading, I ask for the bill to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the review of the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening fiscal discipline has been completed. The committee's proposal is to adopt this bill as a basis. So I'm voting on the proposal to adopt a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to strengthen financial and budgetary discipline. Registration number 2329, please vote. [[10:47:38]] For 226 Decision taken. Thank you. The draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the external independent evaluation of knowledge, registration number 3675, is being introduced. Reporter: Minister of Education and Science Ivan Alexandrovich Vakarčuk The focal point will be the head of the Committee on Education Studies, Lesio Jurijna Horobec. Please, Ivan Alexandrovich, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u30	Highly Honourable Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine. Ukraine's draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws on external independent knowledge assessment has been submitted for your consideration, designed to implement the Ukrainian Presidential Decrees of 20 March 2008 on additional measures and 25 September 2008 as well as to address the issue of external independent evaluation at meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on science and education issues of 13 February and 16 April 2008 and to implement the relevant decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since 28 May 2008. [[on improving the quality of education]] I thank you very much to all who have contributed to the development of this important document. The bill envisages the introduction of additions to Ukraine's Education Act, the General Secondary Education Act, the Higher Education Act. First, the terms “external independent knowledge assessment” are defined, “external independent evaluation of the knowledge of persons who wish to enter higher educational institutions”. Secondly, it is suggested that admission of persons to higher education institutions should be made on a competitive basis, regardless of the form of the property of the educational institution and the sources of payment for education, according to the skills and level of their knowledge determined on the basis of the external independent evaluation provided for in the admission to higher education. Thirdly, it is proposed to supplement the Ukrainian Higher Education Act with article 44. “External independent evaluation of the knowledge of persons who wish to enter higher education institutions. Fourthly, there's no public observation of external evaluation. Fifthly, the law provides that the content of external independent evaluation programmes should correspond to the content of full secondary education curricula, and they should.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u31	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u32	a list of subjects and periods of external independent evaluation. On January 28, the bill was considered at a government meeting and submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on February 18th, unanimously supported by the Ukrainian Supreme Council for Education and Science. The adoption of the above project does not require additional funds from the state budget. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u33	Thank you, Ivan Alexanderovich. Have a seat. Lesa Juryovna Horobec is the head of the Subcommittee on Science and Education. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u34	Good health, colleagues! First of all, I would like to thank all the political forces that this project came into order in the daytime, and you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, especially. This reflects our attention at such a turbulent time to national education. First. I'd like to draw your attention to some aspects. This project is a joint child of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Committee of the Supreme Council for Education and Science of Ukraine. Before his training, he was attended by academics, natives, and foreign experts. The other one. Today it is also a project that is consistent with all possible services and services, the project received the support of Minfin, the Mineconomy, and it received a positive expert assessment of our services of the Supreme Council. Third. I would like to point out that the external independent evaluation project allows for equal access to education. He also allows us to monitor our students ’ knowledge in a qualitative manner. I must point out that when we put this reform into practice, we have encountered many shortcomings in the existing system, including the benefits to the broad categories of citizens, the benefits of joining universities. And this is the next question that we should consider in the near future. Today, however, we are considering a bill that has already been tested in practice and successfully approved. And I have to say, thanks to the implementation of this project, I actually got better quality preparation for my graduates. In prestigious faculties, the number of differences increased by 40 percent over the last session. This is an innovation that is qualitatively changing the face of our education. And general education has also proved to be a gifted project. Motivation was not limited to learning to keep on walking according to the level of your knowledge and habits. Motivation was given to teachers and educators from all over Ukraine. I had the opportunity to communicate with the teachers in 14 areas of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u35	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u36	That's why I, you know, was more supportive of such a bill than I could have expected. So I'm asking you, colleagues, to support in the first reading, but it's a question for all of us that's completely apolitical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u37	Thank you, Lesia Yuriovna. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the talk. 2 in, 2 in, 2 in. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. People's MP Petrenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u38	People's MP Petrenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko, Poltava. Please pass on the word of Polochalo.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u39	Vladimir Ivanovich Polochalo, head of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u40	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is a really important bill. Importantly, the fact that all factions discussed it were proposals from all factions, working for deputies from different factions, including the working group, which included not only members of our committee but also those who did not join our committee. I would like to say that policy in the field of education is being developed by the Supreme Council in accordance with current legislation and, of course, by the committee in February and April last year, recommended that the Cabinet of Ministers develop and submit appropriate draft laws to Parliament. And on February 18, the Committee on Science and Education reviewed the project and recommended that it be accepted as a basis. What is the importance and significance of this bill, respected colleagues. What we're standardizing, we're going to legitimize the independent evaluation that came out today. I don't think we should stop to see why this bill was so long before the Supreme Council, we won't mention all these obstacles, but I would ask on behalf of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on behalf of the two million who are joining today, the parents and the aboriginals who are awaiting this bill today, to reject any political reasoning, because, indeed, as the National MP, Lesius Juryovna, this is an absolutely apolitical but absolutely necessary bill that needs to be adopted immediately in the first reading. Please, Your Honor, back up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u41	Taras Blackwall, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, this is where I'm approached, and I'm sorry, and they say they've been recorded, but they haven't been able to sign up. The system works like this: if one of the factions is recorded either "for" or "against", the others can no longer register, you understand the situation. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u42	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! First of all, in view of what has just been said, I emphasize that I express my sole personal opinion, since the records in the reduced procedure, as far as we know, are not linked directly to the faction’s position under the Rules. The faction, as far as I know, does not support the external testing process itself, so it will obviously vote against it. In my opinion, this law, once again, in my personal opinion, deserves to be adopted in the first reading, with the following arguments. First of all, it's external testing that's already in practice today, and it's already working. But it works without proper legislative basis. And so it is obvious that for fewer charges and fewer abuses to occur on a regular basis, this form needs to be eliminated and banned altogether. Or, secondly, in my opinion, it is a more constructive way to settle legally definitively so that there can be no misunderstandings. But this bill itself does not answer a number of recent questions about the external testing procedure. And among other things, these are the appearances of certain formulations, new reasoning and conceptual devices that are not deciphered in this bill. Under those circumstances, if the system itself were long-working, we could see in a calm way that these formulations could be defined and their content specifically defined in the sub-legal acts, in the appropriate regulations, in the Cabinet regulations, etc. But in this case, the system is just starting to work. And that's why I think this bill should be adopted in the first reading. But the second reading of the understandable device needs to be clarified. In particular, with regard to certification work, both to the task bank, and to the body itself that has to control and perform this work. So my personal proposal is to vote only on the first reading, but to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u43	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u44	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Honorable national MPs certainly need this law, on the one hand, and on the other hand, it needs to be adopted with caution. Why Be Careful? We give in to Article 44. the content referred to in the article “External independent assessment of the baths of persons wishing to enter higher education institutions”, the government's right to approve the general order of external independent evaluation and to determine the institution empowered to conduct external independent evaluation. I think it's a matter of law. That's the first one. The other one. I want to ask the authors of this document. Tell me, please, what is the significance of today’s grades and the results of the assessment of the students’ skills that teachers at school have done. Do they ever lose and have no meaning at all? If they don't, let's write a ratio. If the child did not give in for the first time, did he not give up for the first time, or how does the following year take place, what? As to what new concepts have been introduced, including the notion of external independent evaluation, I hold back and thank the Scientific and Experimental Authority, where Shuba and Ovcharenko worked, for the proposal they make and I propose to include it now, because for the first reading of this document, I will vote. They propose to write this: External independent evaluation is a system of objective evaluation of the level of knowledge of persons who want to obtain higher education based on full general secondary education on the sole requirements and programmes aimed at ensuring competitive selection for admission to higher education institutions regardless of the form of their property and the sources of pay for their education. And let's also say that today we have found a way around this standard. Today they're going around, they're going to exclude the kids from getting them back.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u45	Let me finish. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u46	And I would like to point out to the minister of education that today many colleges are expelling children from the second, third, so that they can move again and re-fill the corruption chain, the corruption system. We need to look at this as a know-how that goes around all of these systems that we're talking about right now. I'm going to support you and I'm going to ask you to support me in the first reading with a warning.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. At the same time, given the sensitivity of this issue and in order for us to make a conscious decision, I ask each faction to formulate its position in one minute with regard to this bill. Please, from the Communist faction, Adam Ivanovich, will you speak or who? Please, the microphone. Then Vadim Koleschenko, then Oleg Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u48	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners, especially the parents of the 2009 graduates, and not only a very and very vague bill. On the one hand, it seems to be worth supporting, for it is called independent appreciation. Although there's nothing independent in our country and there can't be. But on the other hand, let's think about where we're going to get our high school, our secondary education with this appreciation. We're going to lead to the fact that we're going to dramatically narrow down the general level of schoolchildren. Because every schoolboy starting out in the 5th grade is going to be thinking about the exams, the tests he's going to need to write, and he's going to be studying these subjects, sorry about the non-peditional word, he's going to be looking at other subjects, he's going to be studying only these subjects. That is why we propose not to support this bill at this stage.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u49	Thank you. Vadim Koleschenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u50	Respected colleagues, external testing, the so-called independent, certainly narrows the level of education and education of our graduates. Most importantly, the road has been paved with the idea of adopting a seemingly non-political issue with the strongest political resistance. In these tests, absurd questions are being asked today, children are being forced by Nazi ideology, fascist ideology, our history is being distorted, the Russianophobic mood is being pressured, the Minister would have long had to resign at his own request, because in Nuremberg there was a trial of Nazi criminals, of those who mock our history, of our language, and very soon, because these tests are the last time in the language of the peoples who have a native language, but from the following year all the languages of the people will be banned. As a result, the European Parliament is ready to consider the issue at the request of Romanian deputies that the rights of the Romanian-speaking community are being destroyed. That's what we're going to today, Ukraine isn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u51	Yes, Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u52	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. You know, respectable colleagues, we should all obviously be realistic. You know, a year ago we were critical enough about this testing and, I think there's really a lot of gaps and there's really a lot of problems, in particular, and the question of the balance of knowledge and mind, knowledge and potential of mental, creative and so on. But, you know, getting out, I think I need to get out of the reality of today. Can tests be canceled today and this is testing? I doubt, for example, that this could be the case. On the other hand, the existence of external testing without legislative regulation is indeed a serious problem. And that's why I think if you take these minuses, you have to find a plus in the way that the legislation has to be. Then there will be less abuse. And I do, I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u53	Vladimir Ivanovich Polochalo, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, I am again addressing the factions of the Party of the Regions. And I wanted to say that both the committee and the discussion on this issue, it was extremely controversial. But please don't bring any elements of street politics here. This bill has nothing to do with Fascist ideology or Mussolini or anything else. Look closely at what you are discussing. There are many problems. And the committee pointed this out to the Ministry of Education and Science in the process. We honestly and objectively criticized the Ministry. The Ministry is trying to fix this. But once again I'd like to say and support Oleg Zarubinsky's point of view, if we don't bring it down, if we don't, we don't do it on a legislative level, it's going to be even more chaos. So the position not to support this is a destructive position. I urge everyone to be constructive as legislators.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u55	It's a workman. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u56	Colleagues, you know at this point I'm asking you to think. Because your push of the button depends on the fate of about two million people this year. They are aboriginals, their parents, and relatives. It's really a system that has the capacity to ensure equal access to education. For the first time in many years, young and talented, but not too rich, there has been a chance to give up and create their destiny in Ukraine as they deserve. Guys, think about it. That's what we're all going to be thanked for if we take this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, the discussion of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on external independent knowledge has been completed. The committee's proposal to accept the bill as a basis. There is a vote on the proposal by the adoption committee based on the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on external independent knowledge assessment. [[Registration number 3675]] Ladies and gentlemen, please identify yourself. [[11:08:06]] For 222 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on a motion to re-read. Please do it again. Sorry, we didn't make it. I'll put it to a vote. Dear colleagues, please calm down. Who's to go back to the draft Law 3665? [[11:08:48]] For 224 The decision is not taken. Who's to it? The factions, please. Region Party – 1, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 154, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 68, Communists – 0, “Litvina Block” – 1. Who's in charge of re-reading the draft Law 3675. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:09:26]] For 224 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft Act amending article 325 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the violation of sanitary and anti-epidemic standards]] [[Registration number 2210]] The reporter is Deputy Minister of Health Valery Grigorovich Poor. The focal point will be the head of the committee’s subcommittee on law enforcement activities, Vladimir Romanovich Moysik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u58	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Allow me to introduce a draft Ukrainian Law amending article 325 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, which was designed to carry out the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, number 2716 of February 1, 2006, according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order, number 3339 of January 12, 2006. The bill is aimed at strengthening the legal, criminal responsibility of persons who, as a result of violating the requirements of health and anti-epidemic rules and norms, have led to the emergence and spread of infectious diseases, the loss of people or other serious consequences. The main purpose of the bill is to increase legal responsibility. Since it is not uncommon for officials of businesses, institutions, and organizations to neglect epidemic standards and regulations to harm the health of people, this, in turn, is an incentive to significantly increase the level of disease in the state for infectious diseases. At present, Ukraine’s legislation provides a relatively soft responsibility for violating epidemic norms and rules. The previous edition of this law, for violating the rules and regulations for combating epidemics, penalizes 50 untaxed minimums of citizens’ income or arrests for a term of up to 6 months, or limits of freedom for up to 3 years. The bill proposes a fine of up to 100 untaxed minimum citizens’ income. The same actions, if they have arisen and caused the loss of lives or other serious consequences, are punishable by restrictions of will for a term of up to 5 years or by the deprivation of liberty for the same term, without the right to hold certain positions or to engage in certain activities for a term of up to 3 years. The adoption of the proposed draft law will reduce the number of violations of sanitary legislation and, as a result, reduce epidemic complications, infectious diseases, and toxic poisoning. Implementation of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u59	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u60	I, honourable national MPs, ask you to support this bill in the first reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u61	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Moisik Volodymyr Romanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u62	Vladimir Moisik, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, the Committee on Law Enforcement, considered the bill. The reporter who reported this bill today in the sessional room strongly demonstrated the need for the adoption of this law. And the committee offers to accept it in the first reading. Why the first? Only because the bill still needs to be finalized, in particular, in line with the basic laws on the provision of health and epidemiological welfare for the population, and with the Act on the Protection of Populations from Infectious Diseases. There are a number of observations from the Scientific and Experimental Authority, where they point out that the proposed sanctions for actions that have caused the death of people are more mild than for a similar, let's say, reckless crime. So the committee asks you, honourable colleagues, to support the bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u63	Just a minute. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. Please print out the names of the national MPs if the recording process is completed. Vadim Koleschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u64	Thank you. The faction of the Party of the Regions, Vadim Koleschenko. Dear colleagues, it is certainly necessary to adopt this bill as a basis, even if we understand it, we see it repeatedly when there are many victims, families who are affected, whole regions who are affected. That is why it is very good when we have been given the details of the pattern of crime provided for in article 325 of the Criminal Code, as well as the addition of this article to part two, which provides for a qualified pattern of crime. However, it would still be necessary to support the coconspirator in the fact that the proposed standard of punishment for this crime was very mild. We believe that this is indeed a crime and that it must be punished in the same way as the reckless crimes of killing two or more people are punished. So we propose, the faction of the Party of Regions, to support the adoption of this bill as a basis for the first reading with further elaboration of those proposals that have come forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u65	Lila Grigorovitch is referring to Vijacheslav Kirilenko, the faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u66	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! We support this bill, it's as important as much of what needs to be decided now in the country. But not only did our group offend us with the vote that preceded the bill. The bill, which deals with external evaluation, did not go to Parliament because the faction of the Lithuanian Block, which includes, by the way, the government coalition, did not vote. And we are generally surprised that in recent times a democratic speaker has not noticed our part of the Hall even when members of the Rules raise their hand for reasons. Now we're telling the truth, and some of the MPs who didn't vote for the bill don't like it. We have a question: Why does the government at least sometimes make reforms? We are implementing a systematic reform of education that has led to confidence in higher education. For this moment, only for a test of the Ukrainian language and literature, 434 thousand. 417 people have recorded what they have demonstrated their full confidence in this reform. The question is: why does Parliament not vote in favour of the law that is called upon to improve further the implementation of this reform, to make it impossible for any remaining corruption approaches, and thus, the reform that only takes place in the country, puts sticks in the wheels? And what's more, we don't understand when an educated person like academic Litwin and his faction is voting against education reform. The question is, Is it professional, professional? Is it an approach that is dictated by political conditions and is designed to open the gateways to corruption again during the entrance to higher educational institutions? We did not want to think so, but after this vote that took place today, no more precisely, we believe that such reasoning has substantiation. That's why we're addressing you, Mr. President of the Supreme Council, to return to this matter and put it to the vote again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u67	Thank you. I'd like an honorary colleague not to violate the Rules, that's the first. Secondly, I personally voted in favour of this document. Thirdly, I would recommend such a principle in other laws that are essential to Ukraine. And for starters, I would recommend reading the law itself, and you'll see if it answers the question that external testing is necessary. It gives exclusive authority in the field of governance, not regulation of what needs to be done. I'd like to show less hysterics, and I'd like to work more on those bills that are needed, and we'll see more. Sergey Shevchuk, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Please, by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u68	Thank you. This bill can be considered in two planes. With regard to increasing responsibility for violations against epidemiological and sanitary standards and regulations, the bill does not raise any objections. But there's a different plane -- the plane of existing practice, the plane of how many sanitation standards and rules there are now meet the needs of reality. Sadly, existing practices are not perfect. I want to give the distinguished people's deputies just one example. For more than 9 months now, there has been a missing person in the state, who has been called “the chief national health doctor of Ukraine”. What are we going to vote on? For our fellow citizens to be imprisoned for violating questionable rules and regulations for up to five years, when there is no State institution and good practice? So I propose that perhaps by adopting this bill in the first reading, before the second reading, the Ministry of Health, along with the government structures, be defined and defined by a responsible person who would actually conduct state policy in this important area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. I would like to remind everyone of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules: that there are no speeches for reasons, when followed by a reduced procedure. The presentation is of one condition: that if a faction fails to speak. Now a faction of Communists insists that they do not speak. Please. [[It's me who blames those who break the Rules for not opening a book in 15 years.]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u70	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. And to those who want to see the Rules, I remind them: article 31, part five, gives me the same right as any faction that did not participate in the discussion. About the bill that we're considering. I can't agree with my colleague Shevchuk that you don't have to adopt a bill because there's no Chief Medical Officer. Why you don't have a Chief Medical Officer, you're going to ask the coalition and the Prime Minister, the Cabinet of Ministers, because they're assigning him. And the fact that such a bill is to be adopted is not to be doubted. Dear colleagues, every day we hear practically from the media reports that dozens or hundreds of people have been poisoned in one region or another. This is almost every day such reports. And there's no responsibility. So what I'm suggesting is that we can support it as a whole in the second reading, but not in 3 years, but from 5 to 8 years, as Science Expert suggests.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The faction of the performance. Well, let's make a decision, and then you'll say, "Dear colleague!" None of the factions who did not participate in the discussion insist? No, it's not. I am voting on a proposal by the adoption committee based on the draft Law amending article 325 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, registration number 2210. [[on the violation of sanitary and anti-epidemic standards]] Please vote. [[11:22:19]] For 394 Decision taken. Now, honourable colleagues, there was a suggestion that, please note, this project should be accepted as a law, taking into account the observation of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, where it is said: it is punishable by being deprived of liberty for a term of five to eight years. If there are no other warnings, can we take this proposal into account and put it to a vote? You don't? Can we put it on? I'm voting on the adoption of the draft law on second reading and generally as a law that takes into account the proposals of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, which I have just quoted. Please vote. This is a draft law, registration number 2210, amending article 325 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on the violation of sanitary and anti-epidemic standards]] Please vote. [[11:23:36]] For 381 The law is passed. A replica called Sergey Shevchuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u72	I'm short. My name was named after my distinguished national MP, my countryman. I want to make it clear that it's not entirely true that there's no norm at this point. For the time being, the first part of this article, which foresees the deprivation of liberty, is the limitation of free will for a term of up to three years. Another point is that this article does not work. We can even put up a life sentence now, but if there is no practice, it will not work. Although I have certainly said in my speech that strengthening such standards is important. Just as important is the appointment of a government official to serve as Ukraine’s Chief State Sanitary Doctor.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian codes on the establishment of responsibility for the artificial formation of the land without adequate documentation is under consideration. Reporter – Deputy Minister for Environmental Protection Movchan Mikola Mihajlovich, co-rapporteur – Head of the Committee on Law Enforcement Services, Viktor Viktorovich Shemchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u74	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, the government is proposing before you a draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian codes to establish responsibility for artificial land formation without proper documentation. The drafting of this bill is caused by a significant increase in land use offences. There is a need to establish, at the legislative level, a ban on artificial land formation, especially within the coastal protection lanes and the special regime area, the use of land without the necessary design documentation and without obtaining permission to do such work. It is proposed to amend the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, which proposes to establish administrative responsibility for coercion, wastebasket, or otherwise artificial land formation without the necessary design documentation and without permission to carry out these works. It is proposed that the Criminal Code of Ukraine be supplemented by an article establishing criminal responsibility for these acts, carried out within the boundaries of the coastal protection strip or the area of the special land use regime, if this has caused significant damage to the environment. These positions of the project are central because without it, it is impossible to resolve the issue of creating an effective mechanism to stop the arbitrary artificial creation of the land and to remove the negative environmental consequences. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u75	Yes, Mikhailovich, thank you, sit down, please. Viktor Viktorovich, position of the Committee on Legislative Security and Law Enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u76	Honourable Volodymira Mihajlovich, distinguished National Deputies, Committee of the Supreme Council on Law Enforcement, discussed the Ukrainian Cabinet's draft Law amending certain Ukrainian codes to establish responsibility for the artificial formation of the land without proper documentation. The purpose of the bill is to establish administrative and criminal responsibility for the arbitrary artificial formation of the land. This is proposed by amending article 53 of the Code of Administrative Offences, by supplementing article 112 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, and by supplementing the Criminal Code of Ukraine with article 239 of the symbol 1 of the arbitrary artificial formation of the land. The problem of illegal equipment with the lands of the Water Fund in the country is quite relevant. During the committee meeting, we generally supported the idea of setting up a legislative ban on artificial land formation, especially within coastal protection lanes and special land use zones without the necessary design documentation and obtaining permits for such work. However, the proposed changes will not fully fill the gaps in current legislation that make it impossible to qualify as a crime or administrative legal delicacy, illegal actions regarding the Water Fund’s lands, such as changes in the relief and illegal occupation of these lands. In addition, the bill has raised a number of observations that are noted in the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. The committee therefore considers it necessary to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine reject it. At the same time, I would like to point out that, at the same time as the recommendation to reject this bill, the committee decided to draft its own bill, which would take into account the position of government proposals. This is done by us and the corresponding bill number 3417 will be considered next. So I would like to support the position of the committee, this bill to be rejected and taken into account in the drafting of Project 3417. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. There's a recording going on. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? National MP Grivkowski, please. Who will act?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u78	Tereshuk!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u79	Please, Sergey Tereshuk. Sergei Tereshuk's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u80	Sergey Tereshuk, Lithuanian Block faction. Dear colleagues, the Lithuanian Block faction supports the bill. He's extremely relevant today. If we don't go back two or three years, we might have a major environmental disaster. Look what is happening to our rivers today! All the rivers that now fill Dnipro are grinding, practically, on every year that falls into Dnipro built today by dams, dams, washed shores of 6, 10, 15 meters. More than a thousand acres [1,000 ha] of land have been washed up in the Canow Reservoir alone today. It destroys the microflora, the fauna, it breaks the bio-censorship. We don't even know what an ecological catastrophe could be. Go back to the Ross River. The clean river itself in the past today has water that cannot be used as drinking water. The problem in the city of Korsun is today the supply of drinking water because the Rosy River has lost all its quality today. That is why we believe that the law should be adopted in the first reading, and on the second reading, we should make the law a law in the near future.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u81	Thank you. Yuri Karmazin faction "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u82	Yuri Karmazin "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, I will ask you to vote in favour of making such changes, particularly in the Criminal Code, which introduces article 239 with the badge 1, which is called the “ willful artificial formation of the land”. At the same time, in order not to limit or make it difficult to prove the guilt of those who take over and form these land areas from the text of the article, it is necessary to exclude the words “without the necessary design documentation and obtaining permission to carry out such work”. Because today, as we know, because Dnipro and Desionka were also established, I recently wrote a statement on this subject, which is being done on Desion, on other rivers, unfortunately, it is already above the seas that there is such a threat. So there's an extra set of strings. Among other things, we are amending the Code of Administrative Offences, article 53. It is complemented by the following words: “including the flushing, bulking or otherwise artificially formed land areas without the necessary design documentation and permission to do such work.” There is competition between administrative and criminal laws. The clear separation section is not made by the authors. That's what we have to do. So I will definitely support the adoption of this bill, but these things need to be settled somehow, they know how to regulate. Administratively, this is less delinquency, and on a smaller scale, it's obviously done, and criminally, obviously, it's a little different. So please vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u83	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u84	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, Party of Reform and Order. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this bill regulates only the problems of artificial land creation and does not touch the problems of dispersal of existing land areas, the coastline, the destruction of this coastal line. I think it's just as much a crime as an illegal coastline distortion. Next. This bill had to provide for all cases of possible creation of such land areas or decomposition, such as terratic agriculture, and anti-erosive measures, which are sometimes carried out without projects. This is also true even of the problems that once arose in Tuzla Kosa or in the Throat of the Danube. So I think that the developers need to take a closer look at these problems, and maybe not to squander the law itself on small issues, individual issues, but to see it more comprehensively, not only from the point of view of the very clear provision of land, but also the destruction of existing land areas, which were created by God and nature before, but people will degrade, coming out of need, for example, to construct a channel for the yacht, as is done on Kozinca, or to make some artificial lake for themselves, by distorting the coastline and access of citizens to it. I would like the developers to take a closer look at these problems, and then, of course, this bill is very much needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u85	Thank you. People’s deputy Volintz is transferring the right to speak to Ally Alexandrowski, a faction of Communists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u86	Dear colleagues! I would like to speak immediately about the two bills, as the committee put it, 3134 and 3417. In my opinion, these two bills are linked. And the Communist faction will support the adoption of these changes, but on first reading. I believe that the rules proposed should be taken into account in order to further protect our citizens from being virtually deprived of their rights to use water funds. I mean, coastal resting places. You and I know that very often coastal areas, these are places near the river, near the lakes, and often these places are in big cities. We have in the town of Harkov a well-known resting place for the citizens of Hydropark in the Lenin region. And today, because there is permission to build private individuals in these coastal areas, citizens are deprived of the right to use these sites. Moreover, those activities, the construction that is under way, have led to the disruption of the hydrotechnical conditions of coastal land and, in fact, people are already living in submerged territories. I therefore believe that the amendments to the Criminal Code, the Administrative Code, are being amended correctly. Then they will take more seriously the issue of permission to build in these places. Most importantly, those who will carry out such construction will be more attentive to design and, most importantly, to their personal responsibility for the damage they will cause to their neighbors on their land. These bills should therefore be supported, but only on first reading. They must be further developed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u87	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Of those factions that didn't act, no one insists? No, it's not. May I have your attention, fellow officers? The committee proposes to reject this law. At the same time, I would like to see you carefully. It is illegal, without proper permission, to do so with regard to land washing and artificial land formation. Therefore, with this in mind, I am voting on the first proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Codes of Ukraine, registration number 3134. [[establishing responsibility for the artificial formation of the land without proper documentation]] Please vote. [[11:37:45]] For 247 Decision taken. Thank you. The draft Law, registration number 3417, on amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine, is being announced for consideration. [[on liability for offences in respect of water fund land]] Reporter: Victor Dmitrovich Schwetz and his co-reporter will be Victor Viktorovich Shevchuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u88	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, has just voted in favour of the bill passed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In view of the committee meeting, the committee approved the decision to propose to the Supreme Council to reject the bill, but only because the committee had the idea to expand the bill a little bit and make it more perfect. And that is why a working group was formed on the committee, which included the national deputies of Sweden, Sevkovic and Shentz, who drafted their bill on the same subject and introduced the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's why I think, and we thought on the committee, that the government's initiative, as well as the higher bill 3134, is absolutely right. Another point is that, from the point of view of legislation in the field of criminal and administrative law, the bill caused a lively discussion, we thought that there were a lot of issues that needed improvement. Therefore, our bill foresees, in addition to the artificial formation of land within the coastal protection strip or special land use zones, we propose to establish criminal and administrative responsibility for carrying out work in land areas on the bottom of rivers, lakes, reservoirs, seas, and other water objects in violation of established rules or other illegal actions to alter the water fund’s land relief, the illegal possession by the surface layer of the water fund’s land on a large scale. At the same time, the severity of the punishment depends on the harm done. But the main thing is, the honourable colleagues in our bill, which is not in what we have now voted that all of the people who have illegally seized the land or have created artificially, according to our bill, should return this.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u89	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u90	On my own account. What's the problem, dear fellows? The fact is that the mechanism for the legalization of illegally formed land may be that the person who illegally seized the land will receive administrative punishment and then the court will decide, the court will go again, and ownership of the land will be established in court. And we suggest that all the artificially formed land at the expense of this person be restored to the original condition. Thank you for your attention and please support our bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u91	Thank you. Victor Viktorovich, please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u92	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill was drafted by members of the Legal Security Committee, law enforcement, in accordance with the decision of the Committee. The reason was that the problem of illegal activities around water fund lands was extremely acute, and the government bill, which we had previously considered, did not fully address the whole set of problems. The bill proposes to supplement the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences with two rules: a new part of article 53 and an article 53 with a four - badge. It also amends the Criminal Code in the form of an addition to it by two new articles: 239 with a single brand, “The violation of the rules on the use of water funds” and article 239 with a badge of two, “The illegal possession of water funds’ lands in particularly large sizes”. It is also suggested that landowners and landowners should be assigned to their own account in the event of an illegal change in the relief work. The draft law provides the legal basis for an effective response to water fund land offences and provides for the possibility of attracting offenders to criminal and administrative responsibility for illegal actions in relation to water fund land, such as changes in the emplacement and illegal occupation of land. In support of the bill as a whole, the committee discussed the need to amend the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences in order to determine the number of officials who would have the right to file administrative records under article 53 with the badge 4 and article 53, part 2, to impose administrative charges. In the light of the Committee's presentation, it is possible to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the outcome of the review of the draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts, registration number 3417, to adopt it on the first reading as a basis. [[on liability for offences in respect of water fund land]] Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u93	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this bill. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. Sergei Tereshuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u94	Sergey Tereshuk, Lithuanian Block faction. The Lithuanian factions will also support this bill. We believe that it should be accepted in the first reading and then accepted in general after appropriate additions have been made. I'd also like to address those MPs who don't support it. Who didn't support the previous bill. This is evidently due to the fact that they have not yet been able to make the nooses on Dniper or on another river. There's an option, there's a legal solution to this problem. There is now the Water Codex, which prepares for the second reading. So there's an 86th article where you can make changes and additions, and that's going to give you a legal way by producing project documentation, by getting all the permits, permits that will help you avoid all the problems that we have on the rivers today in a legitimate way to make excuses. Therefore, we believe that the law should be adopted in the first reading, and all the problems that cause or all the problems that may arise can be settled in the Water Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u95	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u96	Dear colleagues! Jaroslav Suhi, Party of Regions, Zaporozhye I want to say that for Kiev, as for Zaporozhye, this problem is particularly relevant. And that is certainly understandable, because, in addition to the direct damage that the drafters have already said, coastal ecology, I would like to take into account -- and I would like to ask the honourable colleagues to listen to my words -- to take into account the enormous danger of the social and civil unrest. Because when the former place of collective recreation of children, families on the shore, such as Dnipra, Right or Other River is suddenly turned into property, and also illegally captured, we have all the real reasons to expect dissatisfaction, well, with the following drastic physical actions in relation to these masters. But in order to solve this problem comprehensively and effectively, it is only necessary to adopt the bill in the first reading, because, unfortunately, it does not solve the problem to the end: who has and how does finance the polluted place, and how to return to the territorial community, how to return to the state the place that once enjoyed the view and served as a means of purifying the river or clearing the shores. And last remark. There's a lot in this room that we're talking about that we need to put in, regulate the arbitrary documentation. Colleagues, try the district center and ask the average citizen: he will come down madly to obtain a state act on the ground, a law - abiding, ordinary citizen who, honestly, has a decent opportunity to obtain it. Try this: It is actually physically impossible to do this today. So people are using all kinds of fraudulent methods, looking for all kinds of passersby to get some legal permits to build this or expand their landscaping. Therefore, the bill must be adopted in the first reading and the problem must be solved in a comprehensive manner.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u97	Thank you. The discussion is over. Please, the factions didn't come out. One minute. I had to write it down. Ivan Aleksandrovitch, one minute, if the faction hasn't come forward, we have to. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u98	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Ladies and gentlemen, we must adopt this bill in the first reading, regardless of the fact that we have adopted the same bill in the first reading before, and as a result we should work on it, because it's about very socially dangerous activities. The thing is, we see the damage done to our nature. It's clouding our meadows and pastures, destroying our rivers, and as a result it's a pity, so it's a crime. And on the other hand, crime is also because it happens very often on its own. So we need to adopt this bill in the first reading, work on it, and maybe take something out of the first bill and accept it as quickly as possible. It can be worked in several directions. It's in terms of terminology. Because this is about the land, we need to talk about the territory. The other one. We need to work on it in the direction of sanctions. Because they're very low sanctions, and they're not going to put a foot in that kind of action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. Therefore, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on liability for offences in respect of water fund land. Registration number 3417. Please vote. [[11:48:58]] For 385 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, such an offer. Let us now consider another law: 2464. This is a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve state regulation in the area of housing. After that, they declared the break as required by the Rules. And after the break, we started to consider the issue, the Security Service head's report. Is there no objection? Thank you. A draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on improving government regulation in the area of housing is being announced for consideration. Registration number 2464, the reporter is the head of the State Commission on Financial Services Market Regulation, Victor Ivanovich Suslov. Alexander Ivanovich Klimenko will be the narrator. Please, Victor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u100	Dear Head, honourable Ukrainian national deputies, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine presents for consideration in the first reading a bill amending some of the Ukrainian laws on improving state regulation in the area of housing. The aim of the project is to improve public regulation in the area of housing construction by amending the existing laws of Ukraine, which will ensure that the rights of investors in housing construction, the responsibility of builders and financial institutions of managers are enhanced, creating conditions for equal and fair competition and preventing financial abuse in housing and investment. This project is duly duplicated by the Supreme Council's law on amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on improving financial mechanisms for investing in housing, but the government considers it possible after approval in the first reading to eliminate this duplication and it will be possible to approve the law definitively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u101	Thank you, Victor Ivanovich, sit down. Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Alexander Ivanovich Klimenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u102	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, honourable voters, the bill in question is, in fact, in some ways covered by the legislative acts that we have adopted in the area of construction and the mechanisms for improving financing. These are bills, first of all, 1418 and Bill 3354, which were voted by the Supreme Council by a constitutional majority. To some extent it complements, but I would like to point out in the principled positions contained in this bill. First of all, they apply to formalized companies and to the limitation of the cost of building financing, at least which will exceed 50 times the statutory standard. The minimum standard, which is the statute, is 1 million euros, which is not more than 50 million euros. In general, we have considered on our committee and the committee’s decision so that it can be taken as a basis in the first reading. I'd like to support you and ask you to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u103	Thank you, Alexander Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. Please put the names on the sign-up table of the national deputies. Alexy Plonikov, faction of the Party of the Regions, prepare for Serbia.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u104	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! This is really a very common case where the law has to be upheld, because it certainly has a positive character. In particular, it is planned to improve the mechanisms of government regulation in the area of housing, improve the protection of the rights of citizens, investors, construction, the responsibility of builders, and financial institutions. Taking into account what is happening in the country and in financial institutions and in the responsibility of building organizations, this is certainly a positive law. In addition, examples can be cited here, in particular the administrator is prohibited from making property management contracts with institutions to obtain a construction permit from the developer. There's a lot of other things that in a financial crisis, in a complex socio-economic and political situation, work to protect the broad population. So once again, I propose to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u105	Thank you. Yuri Serbin, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, from my point of view, this law could not have been adopted at all, for at 14.18 almost all positions and we settled, and because of one and only one provision of this law, because of one position, we can adopt it in the first reading. Generally speaking, there will be no benefits or harm to this law, for the basic positions that respected colleagues of mine spoke of are included in 14.18. Well, you can accept it on the first reading, you can work on it, and there's only one point left. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u107	National MP Gordienko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u108	Sergei Gordienko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to the problem: we're protecting investors today, protecting owners, but we're not protecting the one who's building our apartment -- a simple builder. And there may also be a problem that today’s salary on construction is lower than it should be. What I'd like to say is that the Ministry of Regional Construction approves for every year the exact size of the salary for the building, which is on average in construction, and this year it accounts for more than 2.5 thousand carbs. But as this practice has become, the customer and investor in their contract dictates the terms and limits these figures, and never in the contract is reflected, and in many cases the size of the salary on the building is less than the Ministry of Construction and Regional Development approves. I think that in this bill we also need to think about and protect the slave work of those builders who create housing, including elites.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u109	People's MP, Arzhevtin. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u110	The bill should be adopted in the first reading. It has significant positive effects, for example, that it is now forbidden to participate in the construction of one apartment for several investors. It is also prohibited to give information, advertise, or raise funds if the outsider does not have the right to a building. In short, standards that provide for penalties or liability if an object in use is destroyed within 90 days. A good standard is also, it's only about cash-free calculations. I think it'll make it easier to control their movement. But there are fundamental flaws that can be taken into account in the second reading. In particular, those institutions that carry out such funding are not covered by the funds of the Banking Authority, a particularly good project is in Kyivmishkbud. I think that the second reading must take this into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u111	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. Committee proposal: accept as a basis. This proposal is then put to the vote, namely, on the adoption as a basis of the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the improvement of state regulation in the area of housing. [[Registration number 2464]] Please vote. [[11:57:53]] For 358 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have a recess of up to 12 hours 30 minutes. Right after the break, we'll start with the question: Report of the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the status of functioning and personnel of the Ukrainian Security Service and the management of its assets.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u112	Please invite the national deputies to the session room so that we can continue our work. Dear colleagues! In accordance with the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we now have to consider the issue: a report by the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the state of functioning and staffing of the Ukrainian Security Service and the management of property that ensures its operation. In accordance with article 240 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, such a procedure is provided for the consideration of reports. For the report, up to 20 minutes, for the answer to a question, up to 20 minutes, for the speech from the Main Committee, up to 10 minutes. At the same time, if the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides to discuss the matter, it is necessary to vote in favour. Hence, honourable colleagues are invited to organize such an examination. 20 minutes to report to the Head of the Security Service, 20 minutes -- answers to questions, 10 minutes -- speech by the Head of the Defence and Security Committee, Anatoly Stepanovich Grizzenka. And if we decide that there will be statements, such as from factions or others, there will be proposals, we should vote for them. So the first part, the orderly part, is taken for granted. And the second. Do we need to discuss this issue in the form of statements by heads or representatives of factions, every three minutes, is there a need? So I'm voting on this proposal that after the report and the co-report, we should discuss the factions in three minutes. Please vote. [[12:32:38]] For 310 Decision taken. I would like to remind you once again that the procedure for dealing with the issue is: a report by the head of the Security Service -- 20 minutes, questions to the head of the Security Service -- within 20 minutes, a report by the head of the Committee, Mr Anatolia Stepanovich -- within 10 minutes and 15 minutes, statements by the factions, after which decisions were taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, let's not ask Grizzen. You'll be able to ask him questions. I'm going to the Rules, dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, the Rules. Please make a different decision, there will be another decision, but we have already made the decision. The report is invited by the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Mr. Tsavajchenko Valentin Aleksandrović. Once again, we are considering the state of functioning and human resources security of Ukraine and the management of its assets. Please, Valentin Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u113	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, to implement the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree, I am reporting on the functioning of the Ukrainian Security Service, its reform, personnel security and property management. First of all, I would like to thank the people's supporters for their confidence in the voting for the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service. I see the task of the head of the Ukrainian Special Service in the main, responsible service of the Ukrainian people. The law defines Ukraine’s Security Service as the State’s special task law enforcement agency, which ensures the State’s security. The activity of the BSS will be built and built solely on the principles of legality, respect for the rights and dignity of the citizen, and non-partisanism. The service is a sharp instrument, I recognize that, which is at the disposal of the state. At the same time, in our country, a serious, fairly effective system of public control over the activities of the Ukrainian Security Service has been rebuilt in recent years. Accordingly, this system provides the greatest opportunity for society to receive information on even the most pressing issues or problems in the Security Service. A report on the basis of the results of the SBU in 2008 pursuant to article 31 of the Ukrainian Act on SBU was sent to the Golea Supreme Council of Ukraine on 12 January of this year. So let me focus on the achievements of our service in two months 2009 and on this to focus your attention, honourable national MPs. The first priority in the activities of the BSS, defined both by law and by the President of Ukraine, is to oppose any violation of State sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity. In this regard, I am informing you that in two and a half years, dozens of offensive actions, several criminal cases that I would like to report to you have been carried out when I work in the Security Service. I am referring to the indictment of article 110 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine in violation of Ukraine's territorial integrity by representatives or, as they call themselves, the leaders of the People's Front “Sevastopol-Krim-Russia”, the head of the Association “Som” of the sub-Karpathian Russians. And I assure you that with your help, with the help of the Ukrainian courts, we must bring these cases to a decision, a legal decision of the Ukrainian court. According to the court's decision, we have already reached and forcibly disbanded the Donetsk Republic. The Zacarpathian District Administrative Court began hearings in the case of the removal from the registration of the Soya Association of Under-Karpathian Russians, the suspension of the activities of radical structures that called for a change in the territorial status of the Crimea of the south-eastern regions of our country. I think it's too much of an honor to even call these organizations, they no longer exist in our territory. I can assure you of one thing, and I would ask your support so that we can take an extremely sharp and consolidated position in these matters. The next priority of the ministry remains the opposition to xenophobia, racism, and extremism. The BSB reacted and reacted harshly, and the support is from the Supreme Court of Ukraine and from every faction represented in Parliament. I would like to thank you and ask you for your support in this work. As a precedent, I will refer to the so - called Odessa case when, according to the materials of the Ukrainian Security Service and the Prosecutor’s Office, it is the court that punishes the head of the publishing company who has been distributing anti - Semitic materials. This, in my opinion, is a confirmation that the BSC is operating, as it should be, in an institution in the rule of law. In the near future, the Security Service will recreate and restore the work of the round table in response to xenophobia. We invite all of you, as well as the nongovernmental organizations, to share in and assist us in this work. In the face of a global financial crisis, the BIS has been entrusted by the President with the task of introducing, within the competences, special anti-crisis measures aimed at protecting the economic security of our nation above all. In order to carry out this assignment, the 2009 BPO has prepared notice plans, priority has been given to ensuring the financial and energy security of our nation and combating smuggling. To implement the Head of State, the BSB works daily with the National Bank, the National Tax Administration, to ensure the stability of the national banking system. In order to protect the property rights of the State, the BSB has ceased this year and will continue to cease attempts by foreign raiders to capture strategic objects such as the Turboat Open Shareholder Society, the Indar Company, the Poltava Medical Glass Plant and others. In the profile committee, in other committees of the Supreme Council, we have received such assistance in such a work and will continue to report and keep you informed of this work. The fight against corruption remains a top priority for the Ukrainian Security Service. I strongly assure you that what is involved in protecting our citizen from suffering daily in institutions where he is being murdered by corrupters and abused by his rights as a citizen to live in an honest country is not going to be tolerated or allowed to exist. As a report, I can only give you one figure: in 2009 the Ukrainian Security Service compiled 183 protocols on the corruption of civil servants in the first and fourth categories. Detained during the capture of bribes by the special forces of the heads of the Balkan People's Lands, the Suburban Landplace, the three heads of the Elders, the head of the land administration, and on the list. [[Kharkiv Region]] [[Dnipropetrovsk Region]] All of this in a report to the Supreme Council. As an example of what high-level owners are allowed to do, I can give an example of how the deputy head of the National Aviation Administration of Ukraine acted, who assessed his conscience and activity by 2,000 litres of gasoline. Now this guy's out of office, criminal. Along with the Attorney General's Office, this man, I promise you, will be held accountable. Along with the Attorney General's Office -- and you're well aware of this -- it wasn't just documented, it was detected, it was also discontinued, in fact, a criminal group led by the judge of the Lviv Court of Appeal, it was he plus 10 judges. All the materials are now being investigated in the Attorney General's Office. We promise that if corruption continues to build extremely complex and protective schemes of corruption in the courts, we will react harshly. Of course, in my view, the respectable national deputies of Ukraine remain questions of cleanliness of their own ranks. Virtue in the BSC is a priority for me. I promise you that any incidents or complaints from ordinary citizens of Ukraine, where officials will be involved in corruption or corruption, will find immediate responses. In view of the growing drug threat, the Security Service is conducting special operations against transnational cartels. We reported to the Supreme Council that only last year did we stop and destroy 3 drug laboratories in our territory, 17 international groups ceased to exist, 900 kilograms of heroin and 53 kilograms of cocaine removed and destroyed by the Security Service. In just two months of this year, 70 pounds [70 kg] of drugs did not reach Ukraine, and our children will never receive them. The Ukrainian Security Service, as an authorized state authority in the area of counter intelligence in 2009, carried out the following: 13 demarches to officials of foreign intelligence services in connection with their efforts to involve Ukrainian citizens in illegal espionage. According to article 111 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, we received a criminal case against two former military personnel working for foreign intelligence for a reward in connection with one of Ukraine’s military objects. I would like to reiterate that the Security Service is not investigating criminal charges of treason against any of Ukraine's senior officials. In protecting the rights and freedoms of citizens, the ministry also fights against illegal interference in our private life with you. During January-February, that is, two months this year, we were captured by four illegal mobile phone listening complexes. Criminal groups who worked stopped their activities. True, one of these cell - phone listening complexes has been removed from the service of the Black Sea Navy of the Russian Federation. But he also provides an explanation for the prosecution, and this activity has been suspended, including this person. Members of the Security Service, I also want to inform you about this, and we are doing our duty to the Ukrainian people to restore historical truth and justice. We will continue to work on the implementation of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on Disclosure, Publication and Study of Archive Papers relating to the Ukrainian Liberation Movement, the Political Repressions and the Hunger Seas in Ukraine. The Ukrainian Security Service has taken the initiative, and we have already handed over to the Russian Federal Security Service a draft agreement that envisions cooperation with the Russian FSB, with the decommissioning of the archives of all the USSR penal authorities. Such an agreement is also ready to be signed with the Polish side. Since last year, at the initiative of the President of Ukraine, the National Security and Defence Committee has been working closely with the Supreme Council Committee on National Security and Defence to reform the Ukrainian Security Service. I'm sure we can do this. The concept of security service reform is developed and implemented with the support of the profile committee, and the State’s targeted BSS reform program. I would also like to thank the head of this committee, and every member of our profile committee who worked with non-governmental experts, along with the Ukrainian Security Service, with our generals on the design and implementation and the concept, and the reform programs. Thank you very much for supporting the 2009 budget request of the Ukrainian Security Service. It is with the support of the National MPs that the Security Service and each of my fellow workers have been given the opportunity to receive the wages we pay them regularly and monthly. So let me just say a little bit. We have clear strategic priorities. We continue to work with the profile committee. We continue to ask for our support, first of all, in those legislative initiatives that will ensure the effective functioning of the Ukrainian Security Service. That's the law on interception of communications, the draft law. This is a bill to strengthen the fight against corruption and other laws that improve the activities of the Service. It's about the personnel situation at the HQ. According to the Ukrainian Law on the General Structure and Numbering of the Security Service of Ukraine, the total number of SBUs was approved by the law of 33 thousand 500 persons, including by the law of 27 thousand and 200 military personnel of the SBU. To date, Ukraine’s distinguished national deputies, in fact this number is 29 thousand,167, of whom 22 thousand,464 are members of the military. All personnel assigned to the Ukrainian Security Service are carried out in accordance with articles 13 and 15 of the Ukrainian Security Service Act. The Head of State for the submission of the Head of the BSC and the heads of the local district administrations are appointed by the heads of the regional authorities, more simply by the district authorities of the Ukrainian Security Service. The rotation. The rotation in the BSC, it's a fundamental question, it's going to happen all the time, and it's one of the principles of personnel work. The basic criterion for assessing our managers as well as every co-worker is and remains efficiency and legality. Over the last few days, I'll report to you, the country's distinguished national deputies, a staff rotation has been conducted in one of the professional central administrations of the Ukrainian Security Service, this is the Office for Combating Corruption and Organized Crime. I also inform you that I have submitted to the President of Ukraine a draft decree on the dismissal of Mr. Tiberius Durdinz's deputy head of staff. [[Applause]] on property management. The management of the property of the Ukrainian Security Service over the period 2007-2009 has not been alienated from any public or municipal property that is in the operational administration of the BSS. I also assure you that it will not be alienated, at any rate, from the days that I will serve in this office. Moreover, I report to you that the Security Service has adopted 22 real estate items and since 2007 I have made a decision and created a single register of real estate and land items that are in service. Among the returned property I can mention only one example, which is well - known to the experts sitting in this room, is the so - called Yaltin beach, which tried to alienate the employees of the Security Service and their family members, Mr. Satsuk. This beach is back, it's on balance, there's a corresponding act that I signed. From now on, children and fellow workers who will rest in the Yalta sanatorium will use this beach. I'll also tell you that all the streets that you've heard about are the Great Vasilkovsky, the Leipzig and all the others, the Malopedovna, where the Security Service buildings are also not alienated, are also on the Security Service balance sheet. I thank those national deputies who supported our budget for the request that allowed us on the street yesterday to hand over to veterans and security officials the unique X - ray equipment that is available and used for free by every employee and family member of the Security Service. I also have the honour to report that both diagnostics and medical examinations on this unique equipment will be given to the children’s home of the city of Butch, an orphanage under the Ukrainian Security Service. Allow me to thank you, distinguished national MPs, for your attention. [[Applause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, the report is completed, 20 minutes per question. Please, and the answers, please sign up for a question to the head of the Security Service. This is how the recording is done. May I have the names of the national deputies on the board? Vladimir Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u115	Vladimir Yavorowski “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Valentina Alexandrovich, I voted in favour of your appointment, because I believe I have the moral right to ask you a difficult question and I know that it is not easy for you to answer it, and yet. You are, indeed, the real Head of the Security Service and my question. You've already touched on the problems of Russianism in Zakarpat. I'm going to tell you this insolent act against the integrity of the Ukrainian state that I haven't heard in a long time since Svijerodonetsky. But it doesn't cover up this mess, I don't want to call it his last name here, it doesn't hide what was financed by some national MPs who are here, maybe even in this room, that is, that our President's head knew very well about it. Now I'm asking a question like a Ukrainian. Why is that, the biggest crime that is is an attempt at the integrity of the Ukrainian state. Is the Security Service dealing with these subtle contemplations? Once again, Baloga is the right hand of our President, but Ukraine is more precious to me than a hundred Balog.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u116	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u117	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the people of Ukraine, let me officially inform you. That none of the names of the national MPs that I know and respect are in this room, I hope they'll still be there, not in the separatist activity, but in particular in the criminal case that we're actually being brought to trial, and I've even informed you, reporting to you about the Zacarpathian court's trial and the support of the BSS. This time. The other one. A specific charge, not just a factual case, but a specific charge made by the U.S.S.S.A. in this criminal case brought against Mr. Sidorov. In this criminal case, there is no official confirmation or evidence of the involvement of any senior official or official of Ukraine in the activities of this very separatist group. Moreover, I confirm that the Special Service has information in its possession about the external financing of the separatist organization itself. As far as you are concerned, with all due respect to you, honourable national deputies, let me tell you the truth, there is no problem of Russianism in Ukraine. Not only do we have a criminal case, we've met people.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u118	Let me complete the answer to the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u119	We also met with organizations that actually represent Russians and Russia as a movement. They have nothing to do with separatism. So now the answer is fair: the people you mentioned aren't involved, the criminal case in court, we don't consider Russia a problem, it's part of the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u120	Basil Kiselov refers the right to the question of Valery Konovaluku, a faction of the Party of the Regions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u121	Thank you. Valerius Konovaluk, faction of the Party of the Regions. Well, you know, it's strange to see you in the rostrum right now, because perhaps political bribes in Ukraine are commonplace. And the whole faction just applauded you when you heard about Tiberius Durdins being released. The question I'm asking is not just about your speech, which you're saying is that the responsible service of the Ukrainian people, the restoration of historical truth, you're talking about the photos of the Great Depression that ended up on the Ukrainian famine stand. I would like to ask you that the situation that has arisen with the Ukrainian Security Service today confirms the state in which our country has found itself: the violent rise in corruption, crime, economic crime. And instead, you're dealing exclusively with political sissy. The situation of arms sales has demonstrated that the U.S.S.A. today conceals illegal activity, both by the President and by his immediate surroundings. Please tell me, do you at least have a conscience to admit that these violations took place or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, let me officially inform you. I made this point in writing to the head of the faction, the national deputy who had just violated the question. We have refuted any information about the involvement of the head of the Ukrainian State in the so-called illegal supply of arms. The other one. Ukraine’s citizens, who have been unjustly deceived in their involvement in armed conflict, have never been involved in this conflict. [[eight Ukrainian citizens]] Moreover, I would ask your support to protect these people -- eight co-workers, employees of the Kharkiv factory, who are now calling on those people who have actually lied to these people. They never went to Georgia, and they were no longer at war. So I'm asking that committee that's profiled and that other committee that's profile to stand up for people and stop lying. The essence of the question, or the essence of the answer, is the following. This case is not over. Along with our colleagues from other countries, we investigate charges against people who have been lyingly spreading information that has not been authorized. And that's the only way to make it right. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u123	Another Bogoslovak, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u124	Dear fellow, would you please tell us what price, apart from the release of Durdinac, you are paying for the fact that you have been voted by the BUT, which two days earlier required your country's release? Is the release of Durdins the first penny and the price you pay for your assignment? The other one. You said you got gas contracts yesterday. Please tell me, how many extra contracts before the gas contracts have you received? Do you know or not that the Russian media claim that three additional agreements have been signed? How much did you get? One or two or three? And do you have any information about the additional agreements that were signed in the main gas contracts? And the third question. Please tell me, will the Security Service deal with the country's abuses of the BET in the judicial field and the privatisation of the BET courts in Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u125	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! I'm as open with you as possible. There was a question about the personnel situation. I reported my decision to the President of Ukraine, and therefore I have the right to defend it. What's more, I know, and you know, is that there's an investigation into a criminal case where I've testified that the Attorney General's Office is justly suing one of the cases at the B.S.A. that wasn't agreed with me or the Attorney General's Office. Allow me to investigate the matter and to provide accurate information about those who authorized the establishment of the case, and why did this happen? That's the first one. And the second. As far as gas contracts are concerned. I clearly answer that the SBU is governed by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. As the head of the U.S.A., next time I can inform you, there are 11 billion cubic metres of gas in our underground vaults, hooked up by Rossukrenergo in 2005-2007. Under the civil law agreement NAC Naftogaz acquired ownership of this gas. In this regard, the BSB will help protect the interests of the State.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u126	Alexander Alexander Omelchenko, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u127	Dear Valentina Alexandrovich, please tell me if this is a normal practice when the leadership of the Security Service, without gathering sufficient materials for the courts, accuses specific political officials, including the national deputies, and then cases such as the Judge of the wheat, and then he becomes the president of the Ukrainian Academy of Security; Judge Stanick has won all the courts; I am no longer talking about cases such as Moscow, Tsukko, Rudzikowski, Konovoluk? Should you apologize if you should be responsible for such actions? And do you not view this as the work of the Security Service on political orders? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u128	Dear Alexander Alexander, I'm sorry, many names have been listed, but the specific answer is very frank. As for the judges of the Constitutional Court, the judges of the former ones you mentioned, the Security Service then reported and sent the material to the Attorney General’s Office. The other one. Those names that were then mentioned to you about Tsushka, the former Minister of Internal Affairs, the same thing in the Attorney General's Office, helped to investigate this activity. There are national deputies in this room who know this matter better than I do, but I confirm that no record has been burned, no material destroyed. Once the Office of the Attorney General adopts a legal decision, there will be a legal response to this activity. As for the other names you called, I would ask you not to involve me in political activity, an honest answer like that. I have 24 subpoenas against me personally or the Ukrainian Security Service. And at each meeting, fellow workers appear. We give judges during the trial of each case materials that were the basis for decisions, statements, or other legal responses. Let's keep doing this, not translate it into a political plane. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u129	Alexander Skibinetsky, faction of "The Yulia Tymoshenko".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u130	Pass it to Oleg Lazka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u131	Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u132	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Valentine Alexandrovich, from the mouth of the heads of the President's Secretariat, has repeatedly been charged with treason, as if committed by Prime Minister Timoshenko. Even the corresponding letter was addressed to the ministry. I have a question. Have you conducted an investigation, and do you have any evidence today that the Prime Minister has committed treason? If not, then the second question. Will anyone be responsible for the damage done to the image not only by the Prime Minister but primarily by the image of the state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u133	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! In August 2008, we checked with the Presidential Secretariat and the materials provided by the Ukrainian Foreign Intelligence Service regarding the state betrayal of the Prime Minister. We have made repeated inquiries to the Ukrainian External Intelligence Service asking for additional facts which, in the order of article 97 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, could and should be taken into legal review by the Security Service. I'm officially informing you that no confirmation or evidence of treason has been revealed for today. [[Applause]] The claims made in the case are rebuttable. Then, SBU, I have officially reported it, and it is not a criminal case for the treason of Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko. Hence, there is no objective basis for even talking about it. The only objective reason is that you are both informed in writing, and verbally, it is a matter of treason against two military personnel. At the end of February, this case was brought to trial, and she is in court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u134	National MP Gretzak, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u135	Dear Valentin Alexanderovich, I'd like to ask you three questions. First question: Please explain the rightfulness of the involvement of the Alpha anti-terrorist unit at the collision of the JEDAPS consortium and the Naftogaza Ukraine. That's the first question. Second: will you continue to be influenced by the head of President Viktor Ivanovich Balog's Secretariat in your activities as head of the Security Service? And the third question is: Will a criminal investigation be carried out under article 201 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, which was violated by security officials and abolished by the court? Is there going to be a review and a transfer of material to the Attorney General's Office and the Public Prosecutor's Office to assess their actions and possibly a violation of a criminal case against members of the Security Service? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u136	Dear Mr. Vasile, we've been seeing you since the Security Service broke this criminal case. I can confirm that the U.S.A. will certainly execute the court's decision. With regard to the involvement of the special division of the Center for Special Operations Alfa, as it is now called, in the protection of the investigation group or in the conduct of investigation activities, which the investigator decided specifically in the case of smuggling to which the EDAPS was related, this special unit was legally applied, since it has two functions in the legislation: the fight against terrorism and the protection of participants in criminal proceedings. And then by the order of the investigator or prosecutor, we are actually protecting the witnesses from further, sorry, in the case of Lazarus to the work of a particular investigation group or the Attorney General's Office, or a joint U.S.A., or the Ukrainian Security Service. As far as Naftogaz is concerned. I want to make it clear once again that, to our belief, the issue is currently in civil law. It is sufficient for all resources in the State to raise such questions. Hence, there is no reason for us to continue to use the force unit. What's more, the HQ will take care of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u137	Allow me to complete the answer to the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u138	The U.S. will take care of the power of our state, first and foremost, as a reliable transitor from Russia to EU member countries. Secondly, it's our security -- the security of the gas transport system, everything, from the issue of anti-terrorism to the issue of technological security. As for Victor Ivanovich Baloga, I confirm that the relationship to “you”, no influence, and if there was an impact, believe me, on this stand you may have heard quite differently. So I see no reason, no reason to talk about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u139	National MP Kzarykov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u140	Three questions. The first question is that many voters are ironically recommending that the Ukrainian Security Service be renamed the Ukrainian Banderization Service. You know that out of the six photos used in the design of the stand under the heading “Ukrainian Holocaust” in the management of the Sevastopol BSS, four of them were fakes. Three photos were taken by Benjamin Shan and Dorothy Lance in Arkansas, California and Oklahoma, while the rest were taken in Povolje. That's the first question. Second. Do you allow the graduates of the Ukrainian Academy of Security to be awarded, not by an American, but by a Russian high-level diplomat? And question three. I call upon you to stop all harassment of strikers in labour groups, including in Herson, Odessa and Nikolaev areas. Also stop the repression of long-range fighters and trade unions of Ukrainian carriers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u141	Thank you for asking. However, I respect every single person who sits in this room, my answer is very frank. With regard to the question of the Holocaust and genocide. Honorary colleagues, all the testimony, and the undisclosed archives of the U.S.S.S.S.A., the classified documents show that it was a planned crime and genocide. As far as the photos are concerned, I'm also very frankly saying that in the archives of the U.S.S.A., almost all of them were destroyed. A respected young colleague, thanks only to ordinary Ukrainian families in Chernigovishka, received a real picture of the destruction of a particular Ukrainian family. As for that case, when Sevastopol at an exhibition that had nothing to do with the Security Service, false photos were actually used that had nothing to do with the genocide in Ukraine, I confirm your conclusion, they are not true and do not refer to the crime of genocide in our territory. Next. As far as graduation is concerned. Dear colleagues! Those foreign ambassadors who give lectures at the Academy of the U.S.A. have the right to participate, including in the service of diplomas. Ambassador of Russia.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u142	Let me finish, please. Please speak, speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u143	The Ambassador of Russia will read the lecture, he will have the right to participate in the ceremony. As far as repression is concerned. Dear colleagues! That's exactly what the Ukrainian President's position is, that the Security Service protects citizens and does not work against them, refutes any claims or assumptions about our involvement in any illegal action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u144	People's MP Arzhevtin, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u145	Pass the word to Heratchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u146	Who? Irina Heratchenko, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u147	Dear Valentina Alexandrovich, it is very good that the Ukrainian Security Service has finally begun to take the first steps of illustration. Does society, after all, know the names and names of all the whistleblowers that have been introduced into the Ukrainian authorities? Would it be a request to the FSB regarding, after all, good that you don't have archives burning, regarding possible people under illustrations that might be in the Ukrainian authorities? And the second important question. Today, all nations of the world are focused primarily on the fight against terrorism. What does the Ukrainian Special Service do in this direction, as we work with the services of other countries, including the Russian Federation to combat terrorism? And another question from our faction. Your personal attitude toward dual citizenship? What does the service do to identify citizens with possible two passports in the Ukrainian authorities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u148	Thank you, thank you. This is where my Foreign Minister sits. So I have the right to answer honestly. I'm taking a very negative view right now that there's dual citizenship in Ukraine. So everything that my minister and the Ministry of Justice have done, I hope will continue, must be a civilised international agreement with the Russian Federation, with other countries, to simplify our people's lives and get passports. They want an Israeli passport, please, with Israel. As far as the question of illustration is concerned. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! As soon as the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopts the relevant law, the Ukrainian Security Service is ready to cooperate and comply with this law. As far as what's in our archives is concerned. I make it very clear, and the President actually signed this decree: there is no more "secret" griffin on all documents from the 17th to the 91st year, which they have no degree of secrecy. [[Applause]] Terrorism. Combating terrorism. "Alpha" Special Branch. In three locations, Ukraine is in combat. With your support, once the decision of the Supreme Council is made, Alpha is ready to participate in the internationals.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u149	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u150	Anti-piracy operations under the auspices of the United Nations, the European Union. Please support us. The boys are ready, the equipment is purchased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, the time is spent asking questions. Thank you. Please have a seat. [[Applause]] The chairman of the Defence Committee, Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko, is invited to attend. On matters of national security and defense, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u152	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Today, we are considering a very important question, though we realize that the hall is either applauding or not applauding, depending on political considerations. But I would like to point out that today, the broadcast of this session, I believe, is being listened to by all of the Ukrainian security forces. And I would like first of all to address my speech, on the one hand, to those people, first of all, the bottom and middle lines who are really looking forward to radical change, who know what's actually going on in recent years in the Service, and also to those colleagues who will be working in our Parliament's interim special commission to propose directions for the development, reform and legislative provision of the Ukrainian Security Service. I listened attentively to the report, and I will draw attention to a quote by the Head of the Service: “The activity of the BPO will be built and built solely on the principles of legality and respect for the rights and dignity of the citizen, of non-partyness. I'd like it to be that way. But since it is said to be built solely on the principles of legality and respect for the rights and dignity of a citizen, I say that it is not true, and we need to give an objective assessment of the situation here so that the legitimate head appointed by Parliament will continue to manage the service and carry out the reform measures that are needed, based on an objective assessment of the situation, not from a glossy picture that it may consist of. The first question I would like to raise is the human resources policy of the Security Service over the past years, not only when I was in charge of Valentin Nadvajchenko’s duties. To be honest, it's a failure. It was a violation of the law, and it hasty led to the destruction of this service as a professional government agency. This fact must be acknowledged. Another quote from the head of the service. “all personnel appointments are carried out in accordance with articles 13 and 15 of the Ukrainian Act on SBA. ” Valentin Alexandrovich, that's not true. And this question was discussed on the committee, and it's not. [[B in m in s a l in]] When the head of the SBU claims that all staff assignments are carried out in accordance with articles 13 and 15 of the Ukrainian Law on SBU, that is not true! And in our committee, this issue has been documented, and we know very well, and the head of the SBU knows when he was performing his duties, and he learned about many of the staff assignments from the media. Especially the appointment of the first deputy of Horoshkowski. If it was in accordance with the law, I'd like to see the lawyer who called for this application, even if it was from the head of the B.S.U., because at that time Horoshkowski was in a completely different institution, no one released him from there. So let's be honest that there have been very serious violations from the point of view of the law, of the Constitution when it comes to managing the board, and we can't let that happen. Another question about the first deputy of Horoshkowski. For me, it's a very obvious conflict of interest, of business interests. It's quite obvious to me that you can't be the first substitute for the head of the BSC, let's say at least a bracelet billionaire. There should be no such thing in our country! And that's why my personal proposal, not from the committee: immediately the head of the U.S.S.S. to make a submission -- you have the right to do so -- to release Horoshkowski for three days. And it's going to be a serious signal that business starts separating from power, primarily in a respected institution like the Ukrainian Security Service. The next question is about human rights policy. We've seen slides about the number of personnel, civilian, military, but our committee knows very well -- and I want to report -- that there are very serious disruptions in the organizational structure of the Security Service and in the staffing record. For example, according to the State Security Service, 27,000 200 military personnel and 72 generals. In fact: 22,000 464 military personnel. And in fact, 81 generals. That's not gonna happen. We're not gonna find that service anywhere else in the world. And that's why the proposal to head the service: to submit a draft presidential decree within two months, and to reduce the number of generals, well, at least four times. If the Senior Military Commissioner is a colonel at the level of the area, why should there be a Major General in the Security Service, Lieutenant General? It shouldn't be, you can't devalue the rank of a senior officer. The next thing that, unfortunately, did not. In the Security Service, 15 thousand 200 -- I call it rude -- senior officers. The position of younger officers is half the size of the pyramid of the officer’s hull. It's the head's mandate, and I suggest you analyze and within two months my decision to correct this pyramid, at least twice as much, by reducing the number of senior officers' positions, the more it doesn't hurt people, because you have a very serious complication. But there has to be a growth perspective, and every star in the pursuits of a man who carries these pursuits in the Security Service has to be really worth it, not undervalued. The second issue that I wanted to draw attention to was part of the Security Service's response to the threats of financial, economic security, the fight against corruption and bribery. In fact, there are also many serious problems. Starting with “Rosukrenerge” as it sounded here. When Mr. Firtash publicly published information that he owned as “Rosukrenerego” 75 percent of our lies, I made an official request. I got an explanation from the Antimonopoly Committee that this is not supposed to be the case, but we're looking forward to a security check. Again, the request is another security check. Once again, the answer that the Security Service does not know has not answered what Mr. Firtash actually owns, which claims to have monopolized Ukraine's gas market. That means there's no system work. Such questions should be met over the period of time if we are really tracking down who is exerting influence and how our market monopolizes. This is a serious problem, and we need to work on its solution. The second question. Wasn't the question of national economic security the Tender Chamber and everything that was built around it corrupt? Have we heard an adequate response from the Security Service? We didn't hear. And these were billions, billions of money, which, in fact, apart from being removed from the State Budget, they paralysed the activities of all state institutions, from ministries to small ministries. There was no answer. Next. And what's happening is what's going on on customs and VAT. Isn't this an economic security issue? There was no adequate answer. There have been cases of about 100 or more criminal cases under the judicial system. But we actually know that there should be tens of thousands. At the same time, the collapse of the judicial system and the fact that money cannot be settled in most courts. There is a reserve for serious work. Banking. Unfortunately, it was only when the President's decree came out in March of this year that the service, including the bank “Nadra”, began to deal seriously with the discovery of the criminal case. But here in this room, including I was talking about it, back in October, when serious floods of so-called refinancing started that went beyond 40 billion dollars and went wrong, the voice of service and appropriate control, and we didn't hear criminal cases. This is a very serious problem. An example was given of the head of the State Aviation Administration. It is right that he was released, and it is right that he will answer. But, Valentina Alexandrovich, I want to remind you, back when I was Minister of Defense in November 2007, when we were trying to return 16 helicopters to the Armed Forces and there was an interdepartmental council for the military counter-intelligence and division K, it was perfectly clear that it was the State Aviation Administration that failed to perform that function and did not stop these helicopters by re-registering the board numbers so that we could bring them back from abroad. And this protocol, and the participation was fixed there. What happened after that? And we actually lost those helicopters. And it's documented, and it's also known to the commission, and I've talked about it publicly, and at press conferences there's a written appeal by Alexander Chalogo's former deputy head to the secretary of defense, then the minister of defense is asking this question in court, withdrawing confidence and not making an appeal, and now we have this problem. So these are the facts of corruption, of abuse, of course, unfortunately, they weren't reacting. I would like to allow you, as the head of the service, to resolve these issues. And the last thing about the draft decision. Since the time after the previous decision had been taken was very short, and yet two draft decrees had been drawn up, they had not passed the profile committee, but I would ask the heads of factions, if they were to agree, to adopt these draft decrees. The first 4208, they're given up, about creation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u153	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u154	About the establishment of the Temporary Special Commission of the Supreme Council on Security Service Reform and?? legislative security. The standard document, including all those proposed by the factions’ heads, is proposed by Alexander Matviyovich, the former deputy head of the Security Service, as well as by a representative of the Party of the Regions, former deputy head of the Security Service, Comrade Samuelenko. I'd like to support that. And the second bill is also given out: 4210. Entered by Sergei Greenewecki, who gives a general assessment without politicization and recommends that we address the issues that we have raised in general in this room and ask them to vote today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u155	Thank you. Dear colleagues, now please register with the faction, we have decided three minutes from the factions. Yeah, there's a recording going on. I'd like to take you to the board. Hanna Herman, please, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u156	Please give Anatoly Kirilovich Kinah the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u157	Anatoly Kirilovich Kinah's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u158	Ladies and gentlemen, we are considering a matter of principle, because, according to the Constitution, the main function of the Ukrainian Security Service is to ensure the protection of all national economic and political interests and to create conditions for a high level of national security in all directions. Especially in modern times, when the external and internal influences are sharply exacerbated, the risks to Ukraine's development, to all the elements of our national interests, more than ever, the Ukrainian Security Service must meet modern requirements, the high level of professionalism and depoliticization in its activities. I have to say, and it is not only my opinion that this too, unfortunately, has also occurred in a report by the Head of the Security Service that we have heard today a very superficial, highly unbiased information about the real state of affairs in the Ukrainian Security Service. The reality is that there is a growing crisis, there is a shift of highly professional personnel to the level of technical and material security in the Ukrainian Security Service, which is not in line with current requirements, and unfortunately, in some directions, the structural units of the Ukrainian Secretaryate are being transformed, which are very damaging to the entire national interest. Energy security. How could it be allowed that Ukraine, in the so-called gas war, would in fact demonstrate the absolute non-consolidation of the structures of power, first of all the President and the government? There has been such a level of mistrust and disrespect in our country that today the European Union, along with the Russian Federation, is forced to place observers and monitors in Ukraine throughout the transport system. The issue of the dignity and dignity of our nation is of fundamental importance. And I'm completely dissatisfied with the answer. Yes, on the one hand, it is stated that there is no evidence that the Ukrainian government has been engaged in anti-government activity, but the Ukrainian Security Service, and we all know the names of those who have declared this so-called news in quotes worldwide. Why Not Answered? Ukraine lost much of its authority and dignity. Defence. How can it be allowed to remain unanswered to this day, without punishment, such as the removal from combat duty of the Bok-1M air defence complex despite once again the national interests of our state's defence? And this situation is not finished, and once again the word should be in the Security Service. Therefore, dear colleagues, we are completely dissatisfied with the content of the report, the quality of the report, and we believe that the issue of the Ukrainian Security Service should be.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u159	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u160	And we demand that the issue of the Ukrainian Security Service be kept under constant parliamentary control. And only a modern service that works for the national interests of the State, rather than performing various orders, can ensure a high level of performance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u161	Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please. I'm asking you, fellow MPs, at your convenience, but not now, talk to the head of the Security Service. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u162	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! In addressing this issue, on behalf of the Lithuanian Block faction, I would like to focus your attention on fundamental issues. First. The work of the Ukrainian Security Service takes place under conditions where the law does not fit the current Constitution, since the law was passed in 94 years. The other one. During this time, the ministry had a number of serious restructurings. There are positives, there are negatives. But the negatives are higher on the regional level. You know, the External Intelligence Service and the Special Branch have been released. Well, let's face it, really, there's been a certain politicalization of the service. On the basis of the Head's report, I have proposed a draft regulation, the essence of which is to give first and foremost a legal assessment of the violations of the laws in the Ukrainian Security Service and to bring the guilty to justice, according to the law. Steps should be taken immediately to fully depoliticize the Ukrainian Security Service. To make proposals in the established order to bring the structure of the Security Service into line with the tasks defined by law. Most importantly, to anticipate the liquidation of units whose activities do not meet the tasks of the Ukrainian Security Service. Today, in his report, the Head, I quote, said that the services were needed, were able to protect the banking system. Dear Valentin Aleksandrovich, distinguished colleagues! I think we need to take this more seriously. Experts estimate that the state is gradually approaching the complete paralysis of the banking system, the insurance market, and the loss of basic purchasing power. The problem of the government's gold-currency reserves is fundamental in times of crisis. We were talking about gas reserves. What about the gold and currency reserves? How are they located? As of July 2008, official data had recorded a gold and currency reserve of $38 billion. Today, they are not more than 26. And worst of all, no dollar has been removed from foreign accounts and has been transferred to Ukraine to solve pressing problems. I think it's very important that the question and the question, and how does the National Bank itself work? If you look at the official sources, the National Bank’s own capital of April 1, 2008, amounted to 24 billion, and on October 1, 2008, it was only 10.3 billion dollars. The question is: “ Where in six months were divided 14.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u163	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u164	I think that these issues that have been raised today, and in terms of limited time, it seems that this conversation will have to be continued on both the profile committee and in communication with the updated management of the Ukrainian Security Service. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u165	Thank you. Paul Mokchan, faction of the “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko”. Andrew School, please be followed by Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u166	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished Valentin Alexanderovich, I would like to point out that we have deliberately supported you in this position with one, you know, and you know perfectly well the condition that the Security Service ceases to be used in corporate and non-state interests. Such incidents occurred, we discussed them, and a commission was created for this purpose. And I was pleased, because I also voted in favour, to see the difference between the statement of the head of the Security Service and his first deputy, who, from this rostrum, abused the Supreme Council, abused the higher legislature, abused the truth. It was a fact, and there were dozens of, I would say, hundreds of national deputies and hundreds of thousands of viewers. That's why I think you have a chance to cooperate with the Supreme Council, a chance to show yourself, rather than an engaged head of the Security Service working for the benefit of the state. We believe that an answer must be given to you and the Security Service as to how wrong and adequate the intervention of the Ukrainian Security Service and its power-makers in the state structure of the NAK “Naftogaz Ukraine” was. There are witnesses, there is a foreign delegation, the first question asked: “How one government agency attacked another. And who will be responsible for this? And believe me, if we don't make the right conclusions, we're gonna doubt if we've done the right thing by supporting you. 'Cause it's good when it was. It is good when a higher legislative body of Ukraine acts in the name and well - being of the State, but it is bad when a higher legislative body is ignored. And that's why I think that your statement here in the Supreme Council, your work will be a demonstration of the interaction with the Supreme Council, the interaction with the relevant committee of profile of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and, I'm sure, with that commission that will be created by the interim commission of inquiry, and with that commission that investigates the intervention of the NAC “Naftogaz” of Ukraine. And we want to know the limits of the first deputy, because the first deputy to the Security Service is Mr. Firthash's official business partner, which has been declared and confirmed from this rostrum. So the answers to these questions, plus your activities in this office, cooperation with the Supreme Council of Ukraine and with the Committee of Profiles, will answer whether the Security Service has become a real state authority that protects the interests of the State? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u167	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, Communist faction. Prepare Harovski from Our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u168	Dear colleagues! Simonenko, the Communist faction. Since the first days of independence in Ukraine, the Security Service has deliberately been destroyed, which during the period when the State Security Committee had tremendous human resources and was on the protection of public interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u169	Peter Mikolaiovich, I'm sorry. Dear colleague! Find another time, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u170	What happened after independence? First of all, the nationalists sought out their views of the service and burned the archives with their inhabitants. But I want to disappoint you: not all the archives you could have burned, and they're still preserved. So, Tarasiki and others, know that these cases are still pending, and they will be known. Efforts have been made to undermine the economic independence of our country. Let's talk, in the end, objectively about those fundamental things, about our lives with you. Customs problem. They're taking everything through customs, and they're bringing shit in here. They know everything that's been standing in the West Customs since that time on a truck like that from where the Security Service is silent. Isn't that our country's economic interests? I think it's economic. Why is the people of Ukraine not protected from this mess and economic space? Next. The banking system. Today, mafia clans in the banking system are disrupting and destroying the country's economic base, undermining the Ukrainian financial unit. Why are we silent about this? Why is it that the bank “Ukraine”, which has been robbed and here is known and, among other things, there are other deputies in this room, why did they not name them in a familial way? Let them return millions to the State Treasury instead of telling TV screens how smart they are! Next. It's on VAT today. After all, they kill a domestic producer who has export potential. Today, not only VAT returns, but especially those that do not give us economic independence today. The radar is reported as being silent with the Security Service. Private energy companies are shutting down what needs to ensure the country's security - quiet, nothing to do with it. No one is responsible. It's a Pavlovgrad chemical. Dear Dnepropetrovans, don't you know that tragedy may be happening in Dnepropetrovsk district?Oh, my God! And if Chernobyl is a 30km zone, the Pavlovgrad Chimbinata is a minimum of 100 kilometers of the destruction zone. Why is the Security Service not protecting national interests, and so far the money they have promised has not been sent to the establishment of a plant to cut the fuel? Next. If we're talking about missiles flying around the city in Artemowsk, why the warehouses in Lozov were burned down, the warehouses were specially used to cover the crimes of sending weapons to Georgia, and today the Security Service is washing its hands. We're not serious about this. Next. If we're talking about the same Kharkiv Aviation Company, why are you in criminal proceedings, we still haven't completed our investigation? And it knows that our safety is being destroyed with you. I'm not talking about Odessa Black Sea Shipping anymore. Problem with the problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u171	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u172	They've taken out a vaccine, they've killed our children here. Why haven't they investigated who brought this vaccine here? The President has also been poisoned by the fact that his interests have not yet been investigated by who poisoned the President. Who poisoned the President?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u173	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u174	Thousands of funds, one second, Vladimir Mihajlovich, thousands of funds we have here, including in Kiev for American money. For election campaigns, they appear as mushrooms, undermine national security, distort the right to choose our people, and the Security Service encourages them, and these hundreds of millions are going to kill our independence.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u175	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich. I'm asking you to finish. National MP Harovski is handing over the right to speak to Alexander Omelchenk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u176	Good afternoon, distinguished Presidium! Good afternoon, fellow MPs! I would like to address you, Valentina Alexandrovich, with such questions and suggestions as you appreciate the presence in Ukraine of a Nigerian citizen of Adelaide and his sect of the Embassy of God who is a threat to the history of Ukrainian Orthodox tradition and why he is not removed from Ukraine. That's the first question. The second question. The faction insists that you give a strict assessment of the fascist statement by Dragnibok regarding the calls of a national danger to a Moscow- and-Jewish-free society. Question three. How did you and why did you fail to evaluate the statement by the senior management of Kiev Mr. Chernewicki that he gave 21 million dollars to the officials for the prosperity of his business as well as the sold bank, "Pravex Bank" in offshore areas without paying taxes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u177	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, the discussion of the question is over, if you don't mind, if you've just spoken the questions, we can re-address them, if there are answers in the head of the Security Service, I'd like to respond, including the speeches that have been made by both the others and by other national deputies. Please. From place to place, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u178	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, I have carefully written down every question that has been raised, let me start with Mr. Alexander Omelchenk. As for the bank and the information you gave me from the voice, let me take you personally and in writing I would ask you to leave, that's the information if you have it. What about the questions that, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have to go through all the factions right now, right, on the question?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u179	Well, briefly, please in general, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u180	Short. Let me also answer with the same attitude to every Ukrainian national deputy, and I respect all of you and I would ask all of you that you have or question you have, and it will be the same as it was for the extra-admission right, you have the right to address and every request you make will be given the answer to the Ukrainian Security Service. The only thing you do not expect political answers from us is that we are non-partisan and legally what the Security Service can do. So, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I carefully asked and promised, I wrote down, and I promise to answer every national MP, more than that, to meet. Thank you for your attention. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u181	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we will conclude our consideration of the matter, let me have a few general words. When we planned and decided with you to review the Security Service head’s report, all of us and I, including, calculated that we would have a serious, frank discussion of what was going on in the ministry and what needed to be done. Did that talk happen? It didn't happen. Dear colleagues, you have all the right to applause, you have the right to evaluate yourself, but we are obliged to give this very clearly responsible consideration. Unfortunately, there has been another release of steam. That's the first one. But the answers to the questions came to us first and foremost, whether today the Security Service is the institution that provides security for the State. The answer is no. Whether the Security Service is an institution that is constantly governed by laws. The answer is no. Is there a service that is called upon to be solely guided by decrees that conflict with laws? The answer that we might have, dear colleagues, what are we thinking? And the laws that are, why aren't they being implemented? The other one. Is the Security Service performing its function? Maybe we're afraid of an all-powerful office sometime?Oh, my God! And we have to say that it doesn't fully perform its functions. And let's say that the people who serve there do the heavy and the idea of doing the responsible function, the whole composition. Does he have reason to be proud today of what he does with his high calling? I think the answer is definitely no. Next question. Is Service Under Political and Party Influence? The answer is yes. One second. Are they engaged in Ukrainian politics instead of dealing with national security issues? The answer is yes. And we should probably talk about it sometime, dear colleagues. The other one. Please tell me, is it correct to ask about the secretion of archives? Yes, of course. But it should be done by specialists, not by appropriate directives. Please tell me when there is an entire Department of Security dealing with these issues today. Apparently, he's needed. But then the question arises. Can the entire scientific institution be eliminated? Because it was always the case that when materials were classified, they were granted permission and were operated by academic institutions. Is there a lower level of qualification in academic institutions today? Therefore, honourable colleagues, obviously we should approach and assist the head of the Security Service today in addressing these issues and making appropriate decisions that are needed not by politicians, not by political forces, but by Ukraine in general. We didn't talk about Ukraine's needs. Clearly, then, we must oblige the Ukrainian Security Service to bring its activities into the legal field. In order to do so, we need to evaluate in principle the facts of the violations of the Constitution, which have been discussed many times already here. The need to take immediate action to ensure that the service is deported and depoliticized, for it is not a secret that a number of Security Service officials today associate their career with the political power to which they will bow their heads and to which they will serve. And that's true, we need to talk about it and we need to make the right decisions. And we need today, apparently, to support the head of the Security Service, to tell him that he has a personal responsibility for the Ukrainian Security Service. And to make a decision in the form of the Cabinet of Ministers' errands with the fact that, when the budget changes were made, adequate funding for the Security and Security Service was provided for, this is the home of people who should perform an extremely important function: protecting the interests of the state, not us with you, not the politicians and the political forces, but with you. So let's look at these two draft regulations and make the right decisions. The proposal is that, in order for us to take a successful vote, today, take two draft decrees, look at them again, and on Thursday, make a final decision to ensure that we have a consensus vote. Is there no objection? That's why he's voting. Please, the chairman of the regulatory committee, Alexander Efraemov, and then I'll read what I need.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u182	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, we probably agree very much with your emotions and what you have said. But actually, we have some sort of way of working. Representatives from the faction were recorded, and they made statements. If you take stock of this statement, what is governed by the Rules. I mean, it can't be like this if you're speaking as a speaker of Parliament, but maybe you should write down and express your point of view. And so you kind of summed up everything that's going on in this room. You have one point of view, and we may have another. And you don't have to give the whole point of view for your own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u183	Thank you. Dear Alexander Sergiyyovich, distinguished colleagues, I think I accept everything I know, but to generalise and sum up the discussion is the duty of the chairman of the meeting. And Alexander Sergiyovich, as head of the committee, I would ask you to be supported in this regard. I do not impose my point of view on you, but it is obvious that what I have said is what respected fellow national MPs spoke of. And let's be mutually tolerant. I can read the corresponding article of the Rules as the head of the Regulatory Committee. And I would ask you not to keep looking for hostility where it exists. Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to say, dear colleagues, if you don't like the Supreme Council working in an organized river, 150 signatures, 10 or how many days to vote and solve the problem. And let's get this over with. As long as I am Head of the Supreme Council, the Supreme Council will work in accordance with the Rules. All of it. [[Applause]] And now, honourable colleagues, the proposal that was agreed with the leaders of the MP factions is to take two draft decrees as a basis, and by Thursday they asked them to look at them again, then make a final decision. First draft of the decree, registration number 4208. Please, who's in charge? Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u184	Thank you. Adam Martinyuk, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, Mr. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I hope that a bill will finally appear today or tomorrow, more specifically the Law, which you spoke of yesterday at the Conciliation Council, about the Temporary Special and Investigative Commissions. So whether today or tomorrow this rule will be the law. Today, more specifically, some propose to make a decision that would conflict with this law. The law states that temporary special commissions are created only when the matter proposed is part of the knowledge of a committee. I seriously doubt that Anatoly Stepanovich, because you're making a project that we're going to do, we're going to take this decision. What do you deny that the issue of reforming the Security Service predates your profile committee? If you refuse, then we will create a temporary special commission, but this is knowledge, an object.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u185	Dear colleagues, there are two moments. Anatoly Stepanovich will be entitled to a replica. There are two points: firstly, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a decision that required the head of the Anatolia Grizzenka committee to make appropriate proposals, and he made the first. Second, it has not yet been published, and the Law on TSC and Special Commissions has not yet entered into force. Well, he'll come in, we'll make a decision. The right of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to determine this. Anatoly Stepanovich, did you mean that? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u186	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in part already the Head of the Supreme Council, replied: this was not our initiative, but I do want to explain the reason why it happened, why we forgot that the Law on Temporary Commissions would soon take effect, because the question and the appointment of the head and the question of making the relevant decision were actually decided by several factions from the morning itself, they were then taking a break. Then an error was made. The committee made no mistake. We were obliged to prepare the project. I'd like to vote on it anyway. But if there is another solution, the committee will deal with the task itself and help the head of the SBA prepare proposals for legislative, other development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, other comments, are there no suggestions for this? This is a proposal for the adoption of a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine “On the establishment of a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the reform of the Security Service and its legislative security”, registration number 4208. Please vote. [[13:51:29]] For 369 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there's an agreement that I've just told you to take as a basis, just as it will be proposed to take as a basis the second bill, so that we can look again at the factions to reconcile positions, and on Thursday we can make a final decision. The second draft of the decree is 4210. It already relates directly to the issue that we have considered, and it reads: “The report by the head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the status of the functioning and staffing of the Ukrainian Security Service and the management of property that ensures its operation.” This project is given to you. Clearly, there is no need to announce it. If there are no other reservations to the vote, a proposal is made on the basis of the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 4210, on the report of the head of the security service of Ukraine on the status of the functioning and staffing of the security service of Ukraine and on the management of the property that ensures its operation. Please vote. [[13:52:48]] For 352 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, a number of factions have suggested that they will vote on the condition that we accept as a basis. And there's a denial. If there's a denial, well, you know. Let's vote on these issues on Thursday. Perhaps someone will come up with an interesting offer to improve these two documents. Is there no objection? None. Dear colleagues, now some organizational issues. Question completed. We thank the head of the Security Service for participating in this consideration. We were about to consider a draft of the Ukrainian Tax Code. The authors of the project and the committee suggest that the Supreme Council of Ukraine postpone consideration of the document in order to improve its work. The same applies equally to the draft Law on Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine, which is not psychologically ready to be discussed in the session hall today, since it is clear that the decision to be taken can be predicted. And because the author of the Ukrainian Air Codex project is ill. The faction corresponding to the author’s illness asks for a postponement of his consideration. Do you agree with such suggestions? Agreed. Now we need to include, your honors. I'm asking for your attention! Put it in order of the day. I'm asking for your attention. - a number of bills that we have to make decisions about. I'd like to continue my work for 15 minutes. Morning meeting. It is the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2009. It is referring to the exclusion of two articles: Articles 84 and 86, which refer to the presence of the Cabinet of Ministers when dealing with the question of the refinancing of the banking system. This is registration number 4194. I'm voting to put the draft law in order of the day. Please vote. [[13:55:29]] For 350. Questions are included in the agenda. The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister of Finance of Umanski Igor Ivanovich. The chairman of the committee will be Mr. Mikola Ivanovich. I'd like to make another announcement before the speech. There's a meeting of the Conciliation Council at 15th. Faction leaders, please meet in the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council. Yes, please. One minute! Cosmiakin. Microphone, please. With regard to this question? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u188	I'd like to ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, if we're coming to inclusion now. on the question of the inclusion in the agenda and the decision-making process, yet to be put to the vote of Bill 4111, so as not to return to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u189	What kind of bill is that?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u190	This is my bill amending the Social Protection Act, the social and legal protection of military personnel and members of their families.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u191	Dear colleagues, we need to vote then, now if you support all the other bills that relate to inclusion in the agenda and then we will consider when we include them. Is there no objection? Come on. Then I ask the chairman to wait. Then, dear colleagues, let's go in this sequence, I'm voting on the inclusion of the daily draft Act amending some of Ukraine's pension insurance laws, 3521, on inclusion in the agenda, not a review. Let's define in the voting process. [[13:57:34]] For 186 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Excise Assembly Rates on Tobacco Products, registration number 4202, for inclusion in the agenda, please vote. [[on Surplanned Income to the State Budget]] [[13:58:08]] For 190 The decision is not taken. Now, please note, the draft law that our colleague Kožemiakin, registration number 4111, was referring to the amendment to the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Soldiers and Members of Their Families, on the inclusion in the agenda, please vote. [[on the reconfiguration and retraining of military medical facilities]] [[13:58:48]] For three hundred The agenda is now in order of the day. For 357. Oleg Lazko, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u192	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want our voters to know that now the Supreme Council has not voted in favour of including in the 4202 Bill on Increase in Excise on Tobacco Products. So those who don't vote, they still support the position that we have cigarettes that are cheaper than ice cream and cheaper confetti, that children start smoking at 8 years of age, then hundreds of thousands a year die of these diseases, and some billions of them are making money. So I suggest we go back to the matter after the break and vote it out for inclusion in the agenda and for consideration!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u193	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u194	This is about the health of the citizens of Ukraine, millions of people, and you and I do not vote or discuss these matters! This is irresponsible politics, Ukrainian national MPs should not act that way if they care for the interests of the Ukrainian people, not the interests of tobacco companies! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u195	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. Dear colleagues, let's see if we can't blame each other, please talk to the factions, convince them, and then, if we're willing, we'll go back to considering these bills. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009 has now been announced for consideration. Igor Ivanovich Umanski is the first Deputy Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u196	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The changes proposed for your consideration are very simple, and they provide for the deletion of two articles 84, which foresees a commitment by the National Bank within three days to buy out domestic loans and 86, which provides for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to approve the terms and conditions for the refinancing of Ukrainian commercial banks. I would like to inform the honourable national MPs that, at the last government meeting, the government has taken a decision and amended the joint decision of the government and the National Bank on how to refinance commercial banks, according to which the refinancing is to take place in accordance with the legal and regulatory acts of the National Bank of Ukraine. We have all witnessed some information and public discussion of issues around the banking system. In view of this and in due course these articles appeared in the State Budget Act. In the meantime, the logic of legislation requires the full independence of the National Bank, on the one hand, to enforce special legislation in part of banking activities. Therefore, the request to support the Government's proposal to remove articles 84, 86 from the text of the law, especially with regard to contracts with the National Bank and the joint decision to be signed now by the National Bank, which provides for the order of information by the National Bank on transactions and the extent of the refinancing made each week in front of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u197	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Committee position. Mikola Ivanovich Derkac, head of the Committee on Budget Affairs. Briefly, if I may, Mikolo Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u198	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Budget Issues considered a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009 submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers on March 12 at registration number 4194. This bill proposes to exclude articles 84 and 86 of the State Budget Act 2009 which will allow the National Bank to carry out monetary policy on its own. The bill has no direct impact on the budget. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council supports the legislative initiative and believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. Taking into account the importance of the bill, the Committee adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of draft law on the basis of number 4194 and generally as a law to address the issues of bank liquidity and to ensure that the National Bank of Ukraine fulfils its primary function today at the Committee on Budget Affairs. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u199	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this document? Who insists? Please sign in. Please state the names of the people's deputies on the board. Paul Zebravsky. National MP Arjevetin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u200	Ladies and gentlemen, I also propose to support this bill as a whole. These were the rules, articles 84 and 86, which were included in the budget, and they were anticonstitutional from the very beginning and were therefore subject to elimination. If you take it from experience, in January-months, while these two articles were being implemented, the banking system did not actually get a refund. This is a testimony to the fact that these standards should not be included in this bill. I've registered a similar bill that removes these standards and gives the right to the Cabinet of Ministers and the Committee of the Supreme Council to receive systematic information from the National Bank on the procedure for refinancing the banking system. So I propose this rule, to support the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u201	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u202	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! We are now looking at another ultimatum to the state of Ukraine. This is one of the points that the International Monetary Fund is firmly putting in front of us and twisting the hands of Ukraine, twisting our hands, including the people's deputies. And it was very bitter to see when a party of regions that seemed to guard the interests of the workers and said that they were in opposition actively supported the demands of the International Monetary Fund by voting. Let's ask ourselves a simple question. On what basis does the International Monetary Fund dictate what to do to Ukraine’s independent state? If they gave us 16 billion dollars to help us out, then another question. If you are helping, please make some demands. They don't just give us 16 billion, they give us a large interest to pay back to our children and grandchildren. And not enough of what we're going to be in debt, we're going into the cabal, so they're still telling us what the independent state of Ukraine to do. You didn't think that the world crisis, everyone is crying that the economy of all countries is falling, that there is not enough money, and why is the International Monetary Fund storming before in Ukraine to give it money? From where? And it's very simple: to give these funds to put us with you into an economic and, above all, political dependence on this international institution, which is the headquarters of the United States. Think of what you are doing, thinking about how you are kneeling before this international world corruption that dictates such shameful conditions!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The replica. Chechtev, please. Invite the deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u204	Dear colleagues and respected Adam Ivanovich, the Party of the Regions has never implemented or worked under the direction of the International Monetary Fund. And we now believe that for the time being, the public and you and I will not know where the first tranche went, to what he stuck his hands to, is simply a crime of taking the second tranche. But with regard to today's two amendments, before the International Monetary Fund, we said that if the National Bank were to run the government, there would be an issue crane, there would be bank refinancing in the manual office, there would be good banks and bad banks, and we would put the banking system in place. And today, we are aligning: on the one hand, we are taking the government's emission crane and closing the issue, and on the other hand, we are allowing the National Bank itself to refinance commercial banks in accordance with the law, not under the authority of the Government on a manual basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-17-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, the discussion of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009 has been completed. [[on refinancing]] This is about the deletion of two articles and, in fact, about the bringing of these articles, removing them, in accordance with the Banking and Banking Act, about the National Bank of Ukraine. So I'd like to have your attention. The proposal for a committee to adopt as a basis and as a whole as a bill of the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2009 is put to the vote, registration number 4194. Please vote. Voting is taking place, Your Honor. [[14:09:55]] For 333 Decision taken. The law is passed. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Let's get back to work at 4:00. At 3 p.m., the Conciliation Council meeting.
