ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-04-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen! People's deputies please come into the session room. Please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Council" system. [[10:22:08]] [[Registration of Ukrainian National Deputies]] There is a 241 national MP registered in the hall. The next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Honourable National Deputies, today in connection with the requirement of 152 Ukrainian National Deputies to convene an extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth occasion and in accordance with part two of article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, are holding an extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You have a list of issues proposed for discussion and decision-making at an extraordinary plenary meeting. Bill 0142, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol on the Conservation and Continuous Use of Biological and Landscape Diversity at the Framework Convention on Protection and Development of the Carpathians, signed in Kiev on 22 May 2003, is announced for consideration. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Environmental Protection, Trigutenko Sergey Mikolayovich. Dear colleagues, while our colleague is on his way, there's a lot of questions, if you don't mind. Is there no objection? Please vote: for a reduced procedure to vote today. [[10:23:36]] For 199 Decision taken. Please, Sergey Mikolayovich, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-04-m0.u2	Good afternoon, Your Honourable Chairman, Honorable People's Deputies! On June 12, 2008, a ministerial segment of the 2nd Conference of the Parties to the Framework Convention on Protection and Permanent Development of the Carpathian Republic and Ukraine took place in Bucharest. [[Romania]] Five Carpathian countries, that's it. and Ukraine. The Protocol on the Conservation and Continuous Use of Biological and Landscape Diversity to this Framework Convention was signed. Ukraine was the initiator of the development and signing of the protocol. The ratification of the Protocol is a consistent step towards the implementation of the Carpathian Convention and is prompted by the necessary consolidation of efforts to halt the degradation of the biological and landscape diversity of Carpathians. The insatiable use of the natural resources of Carpathian, biological and sustainable development. the introduction of protocol rules to Ukrainian legislation. contribute to enhancing the effectiveness of national environmental policy in the conservation and inefficiencies of biodiversity and landscape diversity. In addition, the ratification of the protocol will contribute to the integration of Ukraine's legislation into the European legal field, as well as to the state's position to support its need for use at the international level of coordinated action for the conservation and continued use of biological and landscape diversity and. and to address the acute environmental problems of Carpathian. Together with the position of the Carpathian Convention, the Protocol is a legal instrument for promoting harmonization and strengthening the necessary steps in environmental policies, strategies and measures to preserve the reproduction and use of bio and landscape diversity in the Carpathian region. Integration of conservation goals and the continued use of biodiversity and landscape diversity into other sectoral policies in this region. There is no Protocol. does not conflict with the current legislation of Ukraine and are in line with the priorities of State policy in the field of protection and.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-04-m0.u3	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-04-m0.u4	and the inexhaustible use of natural resources. Protocol activity is. The protocol will be a practical contribution to the implementation of the situation of the Carpathian Convention. The ratification of the protocol does not provide for additional financial obligations by Ukraine. The adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Protocol will help solve the problems of environmental sustainability, enhance Ukraine's international authority, involve Ukraine in international conservation projects in the regions, increase investment in environmental programmes, accelerate Ukraine's integration into the European Community and become a practical step at the regional level in implementing the 2002 Johannesburg Summit. A request for support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-04-m0.u5	Thank you. I invite the head of the European Integration Committee, Peter Petrovich Heisuk, to the report. I remind you, two minutes. We're working on a reduced procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-04-m0.u6	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on European Integration discussed at its meeting on 02.09.2009 the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Protocol on the Conservation and Continuous Use of Biological and Landscape Diversity to the Framework Convention on Protection and Permanent Development of the Carpathians, signed in Kiev on 22 May 2003. And I decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. In making such a decision, members of the committee came out first of all from the fact that the ratification of the protocol would allow for environmentally balanced development of the Carpathians, would help solve the problems of environmental stability, conservation, reproduction and unsustainable use of natural resources, Ukraine's involvement in international conservation projects in the Carpathian region. I will add that the protocol is designed for the development of the Carpathian Convention Regulations, which envision its implementation by participants of policies aimed at preserving, continuously using and playing biodiversity and landscape diversity throughout the Carpathian territory. The Parties to the Protocol will take appropriate measures to ensure a high level of protection and sustainable use of natural and semi-natural environments, to ensure that they exist in their entirety, in their relationship, as well as in the flora and fauna of the Carpathians. The committee's decision is in line with the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-04-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, are we willing to speak for and against the reduced procedure? Yes. Please, let's log in for and against this protocol. Please report to the rostrum. Yes, Shevchuk, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-04-m0.u8	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. I think the vast majority of the people's deputies have no objection. I just wanted to add one more moment to what was said to the speakers. The point is that there is another mechanism, an international arrangement for forest conservation on the Ukrainian part of Carpathian, and a restriction on deforestation. It is this mechanism that is very important to our state, because it is the Carpathian region that suffers every year from any natural disaster. That's why it is. I wanted to make another argument in support of the ratification of this protocol. Thank you for the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-04-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, all who wished to speak on the bill. Please prepare for the vote. It is the Act on the Ratification of the Protocol on the Conservation and Continuous Use of Biological and Landscape Diversity to the Framework Convention on Protection and the Permanent Development of Carpathian. [[No. 0142]] Please vote. According to Carpathian ecology, I think we have understanding and support. [[10:30:47.]] For 256 The bill has been voted on. Dear colleagues, the following day we have a draft of the Ukrainian Housing Code for the first rereading. We have a government document and a parliamentary document. We agreed that it would be desirable for the committee to consider the matter and make a decision. I don't have a committee decision, so obviously I have no reason, no reason to put this bill under consideration. Would any of the committee like to make a statement? Is that what you're talking about? Barana, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-04-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, just three minutes ago, the meeting of the Committee ended, which supported the bill and requested it to be considered and adopted as a whole. Vladimir Vladimir Ribak is on approach somewhere. That's why I'm asking you not to take it off the table, but to support it. Let's give him three minutes so he can show up in the hall and report.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-04-m0.u11	Dear colleagues! Yes. Please, Yuri Serbin's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-04-m0.u12	I confirm what my colleague Baranov said. We all support this bill together, but we can't vote now, we're gonna take it down. If you give 5-7 minutes, we'll now ask our colleagues from the committee to gather here, and we can put them to a vote. Give me five or seven minutes, we'll gather the men.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-04-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, if we are to move this matter now, we must. Let's switch places and go to the next document. And we have another problem here, too. We have a representative of the President, but we don't yet have the first deputy head of the President's Department, Slapak Alexander Vitaliyovich, who's on the move, but hasn't arrived yet. Are you prepared for the President's position to be expressed? Not ready. So it's me, guys. Then, taking into account the circumstances, I would then like to go to the next bill, we have 3080, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government. Second reading. The committee. Is there a Mikola Fedorovich? Please, head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Trader Mikola Fedorovich. We're in second reading mode.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-04-m0.u14	Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich, dear colleagues! The Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government at its meeting held on 20 May 2009 considered proposals for a second reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government Authorities, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 31 March 2009. National deputies of Ukraine agreed with the majority of the proposals submitted to the bill. Two proposals are fully taken into account, two taken into account in part, and one rejected, which generally refers to the distinction in the law regarding the taking of an oath as a condition for the entry into office of local self - government authorities for persons who are first admitted to the service and the breach of an oath as a basis for the termination of service in local self - government bodies. The principal legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has no comment on the legislation being drafted. The committee came to the conclusion to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill in a second reading and in general. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-04-m0.u15	Thank you, Mikola Fedorovich. Please remain in the rostrum. I'm an honorary colleague, because we're kind of late, so we've started off this way. [[I didn't apologize for my lateness, I apologize to MPs and journalists.]] We voted on the basis of draft 0142 as a whole. Now, when it comes to this bill 3080, Mikola Fedorovich, let's go with the amendments that insist on national MPs, then we'll vote in favour of the bill in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-04-m0.u16	Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich! We have one amendment of the People's Deputy Carmazin, and I can tell you about that. The proposal to delete article 12 of this Act has been rejected because the proposed additions in the bill will not provide for restrictions that are already defined by the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act, but the reasons for the termination of service in local self-government bodies in accordance with article 20, paragraph 5, of the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government Authorities, for persons who in the established law are called to account for the actions provided for in articles 1 and 5 of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act. A similar standard is contained in the Ukrainian Act on State Service. So we've rejected it as it already is.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-04-m0.u17	Thank you. I understand that the amendment is partially accounted for. National MP Carmazin agrees. There are no other observations. Dear colleagues, I am voting on bill 3080 on service in local self-government. [[second reading]] I'd like to make a statement. We vote in the second reading and in general. [[10:36:54]] For 249 The law's been passed. We're going to assume that we're going to help the organization of the public service in our local self-government. Dear colleagues, as we have agreed, Alexander Vitaliyovich Schlapak is back to the bill or more specifically to the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Budget Code, which came to the Supreme Council with proposals by the President of Ukraine. [[new editor]] The President's point of view is that I would like to express my first deputy head, Mr. Slapak Alexander Vitaliyovich. We're working on a full-time procedure, because we're talking about a serious bill, so it's a full-time procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-04-m0.u18	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, honourable national MPs, the President did not sign the Ukrainian Supreme Council on 23 June 2009, the Ukrainian Law on amending the Ukrainian Budget Code. Without denying the general need to improve the regulation of the legal principles of the functioning of Ukraine's budgetary system, its principles, the basics of the budgetary process and the inter-budgetary relations, and the appropriateness of the violation of budgetary legislation, the President of Ukraine was obliged to make a commitment to this bill, because, to his deep conviction, the proposed drafting of the Ukrainian Budget Code does not comply with the provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine, does not take into account the constitutional model for the construction and exercise of public authority in the country, does not comply with the other valid laws of Ukraine which are fundamental to the regulation of relations. There are some factors that do not meet the main objective of fiscal policy, namely, ensuring the standard of living and could have a negative impact on the functioning of Ukraine’s budgetary system. Such a general conclusion, honourable national deputies. It's the President's veto on page 17 that I hope you've been able to get to know him. And in the absence of time, I will stop at the very principled remarks that the President has made. I've decided to break them into three groups. So the first group of comments is the following. The Constitution of Ukraine enshrined the fundamental principle of organization and exercise of state authority in Ukraine, which obliges the legislative and executive authorities to exercise their powers within the limits established by the Constitution and in accordance with the laws of Ukraine. Contrary to these provisions of the Constitution of the Budget Code of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance is empowered to regulate relations related to budget expenditure, order and budget allocation. I would like to emphasize that this is the authority of the Supreme Council. Yes, the proposed budget code of the Cabinet of Ministers authorizes the identification of lists of groups of budget institutions’ own arrivals, requirements for their establishment and direction of use. I want to say from previous estimates, this is another state budget, the budget of our own revenue institutions, which is estimated at about 30 billion dollars. Identify the list of capital expenditure related to the operation of life support systems implemented from the general budget fund to the entry into force of the State Budget Act for the current year — solely the mission of the Supreme Council. Establish the arrangements for the transfer of goods purchased by the chief public budget administrators at the expense of expenditure, in accordance with the programming documents of economic and social development – solely the authorization of the Supreme Council. [[work, services]] To determine the amount of social benefits not defined by law in absolute amounts within budgetary allocations, and to transfer to the Minister of Finance powers on behalf of Ukraine related to the execution of state loans, including — I would like to stress this — regarding the waiver of sovereign immunity in possible cases. Directly the second group of comments refers to the transfer of a large amount of budgetary resources at the local self-government level. There has been a case that has been repeatedly supported in this room that the President has spoken about in his letters to all governments over the last four years. But the way it's done in the document that we're looking at with you today, unfortunately, it doesn't fit the Constitution again, it doesn't fit our capabilities, and sometimes it's just common sense. I'm only going to make the main remarks to this chapter directly. Yes, today, honourable national MPs, we have virtually no statistical basis for organizing the budgetary process in the way proposed by the new edition of the Budget Code. Because today, statistics on population numbers are formed only in the sections of cities, villages, and rural populations in general. So I'm not saying anymore that the numbers of children in age groups and other, extremely important, statistics are only counted in general by area or city, and then, to form 12,000 budgets directly from us, we can't do it if we don't change the statistical base accordingly. The other one. Consolidation of the population by budgetary institutions. Once again, this anchor for today is formed within areas and cannot be made, and if implemented, it will be made with enormous errors by the Ministry of Finance. Third. Incompetence of the main subjects of the budgetary process I'm talking about how the Ministry of Finance is, because you can imagine how many people need to be increased by the Ministry of Finance itself, the means of communication, eventually, the resources to implement such a budgetary process. But an even more complex situation is in place – in local self-governance bodies, which not only need to add people in the form of accountants, experienced professionals, to carry out the training, but need to set up computers, e-mails and so on so that each of them can communicate directly with the Ministry of Finance. I’m not saying that people don’t have the banal funds to travel to Kiev to find out any misunderstandings and get from the last village to the Ministry of Finance to make the necessary changes and additions. As the real practice shows, we have our faults today when we work with 800 budgets about 50 times in about 50, imagine how many mistakes there will be and how we will correct them if we have 12,000 budgets. Next. The high probability of error that I was talking about. Let me remind you that today we have about 40 percent of the district budget subsidies. The estimated number of grants that we will have after the adoption of this budget code is more than 80 percent, and these are the budgets that will have to be granted. And on the proposal, the President gives specific figures for specific areas where more than 100 million dollars are removed from the district budgets. There's something we can't do to fill this resource, we're going to have to look for additional resources at the center, at the top, in a financial crisis, it's practically impossible. At the same time, we will have additional budget donors. Today, 10 percent of cities will have more than 50 percent. There will be a need for adequate social tension, since additional budgetary resources will have to be redistributed within the territories, and appropriate urban sessions will have to be held, and imagine how such sessions will be made voluntary decisions on the reallocation of their resources to the benefit of the poorer areas. And finally, by the local budgets of the transport congregation, the environmental congregation is actually crippling this work because you realize that fortification by small villages of 20, 30,000 bracelets to carry out transport work is actually absurd because it will not allow work to be done on repairing such roads. I'm not talking about the fact that the roads of regional importance actually fell completely out of the budget code. The environmental congregation. Same situation. We've got a long way to go. Far from always the environmental disaster occurs directly in the enterprise located in a certain area, and it also spreads to nearby areas. In this case, unfortunately, the fight against environmental pollution will take place exclusively within the population. And finally, the third group of comments made by the President is a series of money directly in tax terms, which we think are extremely controversial if not harmful to Ukraine at the moment. The first one is physical taxes. From the income of the natural person directly outside the territory. Today, as you know, such a tax is automatically paid by the enterprises themselves and is administered in this way. How is it that today, from a particular enterprise, that this tax is being distributed in areas where people are prescribed, well, that's not a good idea. Or we will have to move on to the fact that people will pay their own income tax once a year. And then the point is that over the course of the year, we will not actually receive a tax on the income of individuals. The second money that is proposed is the possibility of financing statutory capital of state-owned enterprises through domestic government loans. We think it's an extremely controversial norm, because Ukrainian legislation, and we've been fighting for it for a long time, tells us that it's only possible to replenish statutory capital with money. Please, if the Supreme Council believes that the statutory capital of NAC “Naftogaz Ukraine”, “Energoat” or anyone else needs to be completed, foresee it in the budget as a cost, and the resource should be the issue of bonds or something else. Otherwise, it will happen now, as NAK Naftogaz, whose government, by the way, has cut 18.6 billion statutory capital without the approval of the Supreme Council, and is now walking with those bonds and trying to sell them. However, it is not possible to sell seven - year bonds with an income of less than nine and a half percent. It's only possible in one case -- if you force the National Bank to buy out all of these bonds again. Otherwise, the standard is completely empty. And finally, the last issue that we've experienced in practice is trying to distribute 50 by 50. In principle, the norm in economic terms is extremely interesting, and such stimulating territories should be introduced. But unfortunately, as it's suggested, this is a return to the very controversial order that we had in 2006-7. I want to remind you of a discussion that ended in loud trials when the government lost.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-04-m0.u19	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-04-m0.u20	When the government lost a court dispute to the Kiev City Administration and a billion dollars were written off the budget. I think, in advance, too much regret, the responsibility for cheating this billion. But the way in which this additional billion was made to someone interested, let him read the records of the official investigations that took place at the time. In today's conditions, I assure you that only out of will, for example, the Ministry of Finance and the integrity of the officials working there, depends on what plan, who, and how, and then whether or not they have an additional budget adjustment. I'm not talking about that anymore. That you can get a deal in advance, you can't pay the tax on the added value. All of this happened specifically in Kiev. We cannot allow such a mistake to happen in the queue. Ladies and gentlemen, the President is ready and has made his proposals accordingly on how we can move forward in the matter of regulating inter-budget relations, but making such a kind of unprepared and revolutionary steps, we think, would be a great adventure. I'd like to hear the President's arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-04-m0.u21	Thank you, Alexander Vitaliovich. They will be willing to ask questions. Are you asking questions? Let's go over the questions and then off the procedure. Please sign up for the questions. Dear colleagues, I'm with Yuri Carmazin's procedure, please, and we'll continue to be on record. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-04-m0.u22	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich, I'm with you. You run a session, you represent the leadership of the Supreme Council today, and when it sounds from the rostrum, even from the report of the honourable Mr. Schlapak, that part of the rules of law do not fit common sense, I ask you to stop such insolent officials of the Secretariat and say, "Honorable, you cannot judge the actions of the national deputies." You're nobody today. You know, you can't do that. And I would like to make an observation on this, Mikola Volodymyrovich. That's the first one. And the second. When we're in the daytime. When we are in line with the daily draft of the law and it is written “to make changes to the Code of Budgets, ” I want to show you where the suggestions are, how they are expressed, what article, how to write, instead of what. [[new edition, with suggestions]] This time. And the third. Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-04-m0.u23	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-04-m0.u24	Where is the table prepared by the committee? We don't see her. Let them practice eloquence with their representatives of the Secretariat, but do not forget that they are representatives of the Secretariat. Do you understand? And you don't have to make that assessment. Giving on behalf of the President is one thing, saying something doesn't fit in with common sense. I am strongly offended by such things and, in particular, by you, by Mikola Volodymyrovich, that you do not make any remarks. Do it, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-04-m0.u25	Thank you. I accept such warnings, and, Alexander Mikolaiovich, I would like to ask you to say this next time, “It fits common sense”. Regarding the leading remarks, I think Yuri Anatolyevich is right. I'd like that. Really, here's the situation. I don't see the position of the committee. Who's from the committee? Alexander Vitaliyovich, I asked you to wait a little while, because there was a strange situation. I don't see the committee's position anywhere. Let's listen to the committee's position, then we'll make a decision. Please. Oleg Valeriyovich, please. Now, just a minute. [[B in m in s a l in]] If the committee has no position, what questions? Oleg Valeriyovich, please. Turn on the Light mike.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-04-m0.u26	Oleg Lazko, Deputy Head of the Budget Committee. Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! I inform you that the Budget Committee continues to work on the President's remarks to the Budget Code. Yesterday, in particular, there was a meeting of the working group set up by the Head of the Supreme Council, where, in part, the proposals made by the President of Ukraine, particularly in the Court of Auditors, were taken into account. A committee meeting to discuss the President’s proposals is scheduled for the following Tuesday for 9.30 a.m. Therefore, the honourable Mikolo Volodymyrovich is a request, given the absence of a decision by the budget committee, we cannot make any decisions on this issue today. Please postpone consideration of this matter after the decision of the Committee on Budgets has been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-04-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, let's do it. Let's talk about this situation that happened. That's it. Alexander Vitaliyovich, please sit down. Since we don't have a committee decision, I'm not risking a vote. Let's talk about the procedure for dealing with the issue. Please register with factions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-04-m0.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, since Mr. Carmazin had some questions, I would like to answer them. I'm afraid Mr. Carmazin didn't read the President's proposals. I'm sorry. Although, to me, common sense is to read a document. So, from page 12, and from page 17, on the five pages, the President's specific comments on the document given. I am very grateful to the committee that finally came to their consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-04-m0.u29	Thank you. Alexander Vitaliyovich, please sit down. Dear colleagues. School. Who's from the faction? Yeah? Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-04-m0.u30	Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! The statement by the deputy chairman of the Committee of Budgets made a clear argument. We should either agree with the President's proposals under this bill, but then there should be a comparative table for which we vote. Or, if we don't agree with all the suggestions or the individual proposals, we have to go over the veto. And only after that can the law be directed to the President's signature. There is no such chart today, and today the committee has not reached its conclusions. We can only discuss the matter, but there is no voting subject, unfortunately, today. The bill is extremely important, extremely responsible. So I support, on behalf of the faction, the committee's proposal to move its consideration to the next week, once we have the conclusions of the budget committee and the comparative table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-04-m0.u31	Thank you. Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-04-m0.u32	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine” MP. Dear colleagues, we don't really like the way the next session is being prepared. On the one hand, for half an hour there was no one, for the first time in the history of Ukrainian Parliamentarianism, to open a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council, on the other hand, on a day-to-day issue that is not yet ready to be considered. And this is not just one question that concerns the President's proposals for the Budget Code, which are to a large extent useful, which should be taken into account, those that are useful, not, as always, entirely rejected. This is also true of matters related to local taxes and congregations, bills on a simplified tax system, and other matters that are now only given to the deputies or not at all. Because the order of the day for this next session only appeared this morning and most of the deputies who are currently working have become acquainted with this order perhaps an hour ago. So I call not for the rush that we've been in lately, but for a thoughtful consideration of all the issues of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-04-m0.u33	Thank you, Mr. Viacheslav. I'll say that, I think if we started today at 10:20, it's better than a few months away from working at all. So I think the good thing about what we're doing today is great. Another point that I take note of is that unfortunately, the agenda contains laws on which committees are involved. Not all the committees have been able to look into it. We're going to be creative about this. Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Would you like to say something? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-04-m0.u34	The honourable presiding, respected colleagues, surely, is a document that has been issued today that is very sharp and political. And this is about the fact that, from the very beginning, the President's Administration and the President themselves, unfortunately, have taken a position not to find mutual understanding and to find compromises in most of the new positions that have been declared in the Budget Code, and immediately there has been criticism and complete rejection, rejection of everything there is. I think it's going on today. And I'm going to remind you of a case in the history of Ukrainian politics when Roman the Immortal started reforming local self-government is completely unprepared. And we've been talking about this for a long time, we've been getting ready, so go ahead, not put your feet on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-04-m0.u35	Thank you. The national deputy of Vyezovsky. You don't have a wish?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-04-m0.u36	Yes, there is, there is. I would like to take a few positions and address both the Supreme Council's leadership and the initiators of the extra-session sessions. Dear Society, we need to take more responsibility for the work that we are planning. It can't be like this when I call my colleagues from BET and ask them to give me the agenda that you're initiating for the next session. People's deputies have arrived, well, to an extreme extent, more than half of the national deputies are in the session room. Colleagues don't know, they say, "We will be gathered in the morning and told what the agenda will be for today." What quality of preparation for today’s session, including the leadership of the Supreme Council, can be discussed when no one knows what we have to issue today, what draft laws to consider? I would like the chairman of the Supreme Council to approach such positions more in principle.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-04-m0.u37	Thanks, guys. I fully support it. I see we've all missed the active, productive work of the Supreme Council. Today we will talk and work actively. So that's the question. Peter Cibenko, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-04-m0.u38	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich! We don't actually have an alternative, I mean, how do we do it, whether we do it or not. There is no committee decision, and then we can't continue to discuss the matter. But I'd like to say something else. Who today initiated this, as it were, in turn, the meeting of the Supreme Council? "Julia Tymoshenko's Block." Who today deny it, and who plays the leading role in the work of the budget committee on this subject? You know that, too. Then the question arises: What, one hand does not know what the other hand is doing? Well, you can't do that either, dear fellows! Therefore, given that the issue of the Budget Code is extremely important, given that it is not until tomorrow that we will begin our consideration of the State Budget for 2010, and that is why we need to make changes before. Or a new edition, or changes to the Budget Code, should be dealt with in an operational manner, and then just go back.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-04-m0.u39	Thank you. Dear colleagues, for the third time I would have asked the factions not to speak, the position was understood, we must act in accordance with the Rules, because the Committee had not considered this issue and, more importantly, the position of the committee we heard, they were willing to consider the President's proposals and find a compromise, the right decision. So let's, if there's no objection to this important bill, wait for the committee to decide, and then we'll make a balanced, constructive decision. Is there no objection? Yuri Anatoliyovich, please, you've already heard the position, but you and Mr. Schlapak have exchanged. Yes, if I may. In the break, switch, because we'll go in the third round. Dear colleagues! Regarding the draft Law amending article 14 of the Law on Service in Local Self-Government. I have a letter from the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government: the bill is not ready, so the committee cannot report. With regard to the bill on. Bill 3378 is also proposed by the committee to move it. Therefore, I am announcing before the consideration of Bill 3424 on Amendments to Article 20 of the Ukrainian Code of Land. No, I'm sorry, it's us. Is that what you're asking us to look at? 3424 is the amendment to article 20 of the Ukrainian Code of Land. Trigubenko Sergey Mikolaiovich, deputy minister of environmental protection. I'll have Tjak Roman Volodymyrovich, secretary of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-04-m0.u40	Thank you. Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The bill proposed for your consideration by the government has been drafted to implement the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Land Code on the Prohibition of Sale of Agricultural Lands prior to the adoption of the relevant legislative acts providing for the development of legislative projects to improve the purpose of land assignment. The purpose of the bill is to improve the legal regulation of land relations in Ukraine and to introduce a mandatory public discussion of projects, draft decisions on changing the target destination of land and taking into account the outcome of such a discussion when making responsible decisions. The bill provides for amendments to article 20 of the Ukrainian Land Code, which provides for a procedure to change the destination of land. Yes, it is suggested that part two be added, according to which the change of destination of land is made in accordance with approved land administration documentation. In addition to the above, it is suggested that article 20 be supplemented with new parts: the fifth, the sixth, and the eighth, which define the ecological requirements to be followed when deciding to change the destination of land. They are launching public discussions on draft decisions to change the destination of land. The adoption of this bill will allow for improvements in the process of changing the target destination of land. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-04-m0.u41	Thank you. I invite the Secretary of the Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee, Roman Volodymyrovich Tkača, to the report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-04-m0.u42	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, Roman Tkac, “For Ukraine!” The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations at its meeting on 19 May 2009 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 20 of the Ukraine Code of Land as of 1 December 2008, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and notes the following. [[Registration number 3424]] The bill aims to improve the existing order of change in the target destination of land by identifying the types of environmental requirements documentation to be managed when decisions are taken by the relevant authorities to change the target destination of land areas and so on. It should be noted, however, that most of the bill’s provisions are of a declarant nature and are only designed to change the target destination of land for mining. Changes in the target land of the conservation fund, forests, green areas, and green areas of the population have been reduced to their conservation, however, without determining how to store them. In particular, the question lies in the change in the target destination of land outside the population and within the population areas, and it is only to discuss land-use schemes and land-economy plans that will not solve the acute problems that exist at present, especially around large cities. The introduction of a public discussion of land-use plans within the population will result in a double discussion of the same issue in different types of documentation, namely: a city under the Ukrainian Planning and Construction Act and land-use documentation, as proposed by the bill. Thus, taking into account all the above, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending article 20 of the Ukrainian Code of Land to be rejected. [[Registration number 3424]] And the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will develop and submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law on the Change of Targeted Land Assignment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-04-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I would like to inform you that, in accordance with article 27 of paragraph 15 of the Supreme Council Rules, I have been approached by two MP factions -- the Party of Regions and Communists -- with a strong request to announce a recess and call for a Conciliation Council to agree on the opposition of the deputy faction. I think it's good that the Party of Regions is actively involved in the work. If the Party of Regions were to allow this bill to be considered by the end, we are now calling a recess. Do you mind? Dear colleagues! Is there a question, is there a "pro" and a "against" on this bill? None. Then I put to the vote Bill 3424, a draft law amending article 20 of the Ukrainian Code of Land. Please vote on the first reading. [[11:06:51]] For-31 The bill was rejected. No suggestions from the committee? None. Dear colleagues! In accordance with the statement made by the two factions, I announce a recess and invite the faction leaders to the Conciliation Council on the third floor. I. 11:40 – we will try to inform you how the Conciliation Council will end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-09-04-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, let me inform you of the decision of the Conciliation Council. The initiators of the break, particularly the Party of the Regions, informed of their position to the next. Their position is that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should adopt a bill on social standards. This is a principled and, as it were, an exclusive approach. In the event that the Supreme Council does not consider this bill, they are against the Supreme Council considering other bills and, in particular, those that are scheduled today in the daytime order. Since the proposal by the Party of the Regions that the bill on raising social standards should now be considered without delay was supported by only a faction of the Communist Party and three factions opposed, we have no possibility, we do not have 226 votes or the consent of most of the Supreme Council to review the laws. The bill proposed by the Party of the Regions. On the other hand, three factions have suggested that the Party of the Regions continue its consideration of local self-governance laws, as defined by the day-to-day non-agreement session, to which the initiators of the break and lock were not in agreement. In this regard, we have agreed that each faction and government today delegate its representatives to an updated working group that works on agreeing on the numbers and approaches of social standards bills. On Monday, September 7, this group meets. We are, in accordance with the calendar plan that we approved, holding the 7th meeting of the Conciliation Council, and we hope that the 8th number will compromise on this and other bills. In view of this, allow me to declare the next meeting closed.
