ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u1	Yes, turn on the "Council" system. [[10:02:10]] Cards were registered in the 344 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! Now let's all welcome together our beautiful half, women, mothers, friends, daughters, grandkids with March 8th, and wish all our women that the words we speak on March 8th at least speak to them during the year, and not just speak, but do the right thing. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, let me give you some information about the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meetings on March 5, this year. Forty questions on the agenda have been considered. As a result of the review, 13 laws and 23 regulations were passed, seven bills were adopted on the basis, one bill and two draft decrees were sent for re-reading, one bill was returned to the committee for re-reading, and eight bills and one draft decree were rejected. As a result of a review of the President's proposals, two laws have been passed taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine, the veto of the President of Ukraine has been overrun by one law, one law has been passed to the Main Committee, two laws have been rejected, i.e. the veto has not been overtaken. Honorary colleagues, in accordance with Article 25 of the Rules, spend 30 minutes on Friday to make inquiries. Let me make the questions that have come from the national deputies of Ukraine. Valery of the Writer's Office to the President of Ukraine on the protection of Ukrainian citizens from the Ukrainian Security Service's illegal dismissal and dismissal of the First Vice-Presidents of the Ukrainian Security Service Valentina Nastavajchenka and Valerija Horoshkovsky for violating the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. [[Case concerning the detention of Deputy Chief of the Energy Regional Customs Department of the State Customs Service of Ukraine, Taras Spiteck]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:04:58]] For 272 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:05:18]] For 293 Decision taken. Valery of the Writership to the President of Ukraine on ensuring openness and transparency in the activities of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine and the rights of the media to publicize its activities. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:05:50]] For the 320. Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:06:09]] For 333 Decision taken. Victor TURMANOVA to the President of Ukraine on the critical situation and the provision of fuel for mine workers who are being eliminated. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:06:34]] For 328 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:06:54]] For 335 Decision taken. Alexia ZURAVKA to the President of Ukraine for obstructing the activities of the Olezka utility company by the Governor of the Herson region of Boris Silenkov and lobbying his own interests through private enterprises Spetsstrumturaž-02 and the Ukrainian Innovation Building Alliance. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:07:38]] For 301 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:07:56]] For 309 Decision taken. Jurya TREUGUBOVA to the President of Ukraine to resolve the issue of the disposal of intercontinental ballistic missiles SS-24 and the removal of them outside the state-owned science and manufacturing company Pavlograd Chemical Plant. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:08:26]] For 333 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:08:45]] For 340. Decision taken. Anatolia MATIWIENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal removal of land by the Provincial State Administration of a total area of 286 hectares and 59 hundred. OXANA BILOSIR to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the reasons for the opposition to the Supreme Council of Ukraine's consideration in the second reading of the draft Act on State regulation of gaming activities. Boris PETROVA to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ministry of Health of Ukraine, on ensuring the constitutional right of Ukrainian citizens with diabetes to effective and affordable health care by maintaining a system of targeted insulin distribution and sufficient budgetary funding. Jury CARMAZIN to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney-General, the Prosecutor-General of the Dnipropetrov region for the verification of the abuse of office, the overstatement of official powers, the gross violation of the Constitution and the current legislation of Ukraine, threats and pressure on leaders and employees of the media - the Dnipropetrov Regional Broadcasting Company by officials of internal affairs bodies and the district public administration of Dnipropetrovina with the aim of inducing the latter to provide information in their best interests, to take immediate action and to bring the guilty to justice. Valery BARANOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the gasification of the Melnica-Podil region of the region of Ternopil. Vassil SPAK to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the elimination of the consequences of an extraordinary situation in the village of the town of Koropec in the village of West of the Monastery region of Ternopil. Vasil SPAK to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the completion of the construction of an underwater pipeline to the rural areas of Terrebovljan district of Ternopil. VICTOR PAULENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the underfunded status of soybeans in the Herson region. Vladimir HERASIMČUKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the completion of the construction of the Parliamentary Central District Hospital of Ternopil. Vladimir LEMZI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the reconstruction of the Odessa City Hospital. Vladimir LEMZI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to prevent the destruction of the Hajibei Lima Dam, the city of Odessa. GREGORY OF OMELCHEN to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Interior, Attorney General for the violation of the Society's right to property with limited liability, Centre Court, as a result of the illegal demolition of buildings in Kiev through the Society's unlawful actions with limited liability, "Lico-Holding Territorial Inter-Ministerial Union". Eugene KARJKOVA to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the closure of the Valley School of Public Education No. 4. [[Odessa District]] Igor HOLOVČENK to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the gasification of the villages of Novosilk, Exceptionals and Holigraphs in the Ternopil region. Irina BELOW to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the construction of a school in the village of Bila Ternopil district of Ternopil. Ms. Catherine Vaškuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on State support for the construction of an inter-regional grain elevator in the Zalestice region of Ternopil. Mr. Mikoli to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the admission to the balance sheet of the Ministry of Ukraine of Emergency Situations and Population Protection against the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster of a specialized asset complex of the Open Stock Exchange of Electron-Gaz with sources of ionizing radiation in the city of Yellow Waters of the Dnipropetrov region. Mr. Mikoli Komara to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the increase in the price of gas to state institutions. Mr. Mikoli Shershun to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unsatisfying state of the material and technical base of the maternity wards of the city of Ternopol, as well as the inaction of the central executive authorities in solving this problem. Mikoli ŠMIDTA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the capital renovation of the district cultural building in the town of Zbaraz Ternopil district. Alexander KEMENYASA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent need to inspect the territory of the National Nature Park of Cinevir and its surrounding settlements in the Mižgir district of Zakarpat. Mr. Paul TUTCHANA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the allocation of funds for the reconstruction and restoration of the Polish Gate of Architecture in the 15th century. SERGEANT PAULENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the construction of the Infectious Department of the Ternopil District Hospital. Jury CARMAZINA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Kyiv City Head for the examination of the gross violation of Ukrainian law by the authorities of the local self-government, the government authorities of the city of Kiev and the Alliance-Centre, concerning the illegal construction of the office-trade centre in the area of the history of the National Monument on the street of Bogdan Hmelnicky in Kiev, which has caused a violation of the city's well-being, significantly violates the rights of the city's ten-th-thousand citizens to clean environment and rest and can lead to severe consequences, the use of measures to halt the construction and restoration of the rights of the citizens of Kiev. LITHUANIA’S Jury to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the completion of the construction of the central district hospital in Monastirsska, Monastirski Ternopilsk. Jurya TREUGUBOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General, to resolve the issue of the disposal of intercontinental ballistic missiles of SS 24, and to export them outside the State-owned Science and Production Company of the Pavlograd Chemical Plant. Vassil GREECE to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the violation by officials of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine". Vassila PETOVKA to the Head of the National Court of Auditors of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the verification of compliance with the current legislation of Ukraine, at the time of the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine, which may result in a 300 million-dollar agreement with Blackstone Group INTERNECHENEL LIMITED, which may result in the misuse of the budget for $300 million. VICTOR SINCHENKA to the Ukrainian Minister of Health on the need to strengthen the material base of the Bucchi district, the central district hospital of Ternopil. Victoria DEMJANČUK to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, the Attorney General, regarding the inaction and gross disregard of statutory functions by the Attorney General and the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine in connection with the consideration of a parliamentary motion for nonexecution within three years of the decision of the court. Vladimir BONDARENKA to Minister of Interior, Minister of Industrial Policy, Attorney-General for the cessation of the illegal capture of the Quasar Open Shareholder Society. Vladimir BONDARENKA to the Minister of Internal Affairs for the verification of the sale of information to the commercial structures of the strategic stocks of oil stored in the storage facilities of the Kyivenergo Sharement Energy Company. Mr. Vladimir PILIPENKA to the head of the Council of Judges of the Courts of Commerce of Ukraine, Attorney General, on the falsification of the procedure for holding the meetings of judges of the Kyiv Court of Appeal for the appointment of the head of the court. Edouard PRUTNIK to Minister of Fuel and Energy, Minister of Health, Minister of Culture and Tourism, First Deputy Minister of Finance, Head of Health of the Chernigian District Administration, Head of the Coropian District State Administration, Head of the Montenegrin District Administration for Gasification of the village of Sinyavka in the region of Chernigiv region, and Gasification of the Central Library for Children of the city of Borzna, Feldscher and Obstetric Centre of the village of Ivanovka and the district hospital of Shapovaliuk in the region of Chernigiv. Mr. Eduard PRUTNIK, Head of the State Committee on Land Resources, Head of the State Inspectorate for Land Use and Protection, Head of the Bahamas Regional Government Administration of the Montenegrin Region on the need to verify the information provided in the collective address of residents of the village of Mitchenka in the region of Chernigiv for renting land for agricultural and land use purposes, and on the implementation of the Presidential Decree on Social Protection of Farmers and Land Parts " dated 2 February 2002 No. 99/2002. [[pears]] Igor HOLOVČENK to the Minister of Environmental Protection of Ukraine regarding the complex environmental situation in the city of Chortkovi Ternopil district. MICHELLE RUDEN TO THE U.S. Minister for Emergency Situations and Protection against the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster on the Construction of a Protective Dam on the River Gorin in the Cremenac region of the Ternopil region. MICHAEL SHERSHUNA to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the provision of ambulances for the medical facilities of the Hussia district of Ternopil. Oleg POLIČUKA to the Minister of Transport and Communications regarding the inadequate technical condition of the road and the streets of Ternopol, which pass the roads of national importance, as well as the failure by the Service of Roads in the Ternopil area of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers since 11 September 2007 at the number 135 "On the transfer of the roadways to state ownership". Ms. Olega JERPIAN to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine regarding the incorrect retirement of a Ukrainian citizen, Valentin Pauchenko, and the unmotivated response to parliamentary appeals from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine. Mr. Oleg ČERPIA, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Attorney-General of Ukraine, said that the authorities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs were not sufficiently responsive to the allegations made by citizens about road accidents and delays in carrying out investigations. Aleksandra VASILJEV, Minister of Coal Industry of Ukraine, for the financial support of the State Enterprise "Sechto-Government of South London No. 1", Mine 1/3 "Novogrodowska" and "Russia" of the State-owned firm "Selidewogil". Ms. Alexander VASILJEV, Ukrainian Minister of Agriculture Policy, on the return of debt under the agrarian and industrial enterprise support program. Aleksandra ŠEPELEVA, U.S. Department of Health, on the urgent use of measures to prevent the recurrence of atypical reactions to tuberculosis among schoolchildren. Ms. Alexander ŠEPELEVA, Minister for Housing and Utilities of Ukraine, was involved in solving water supply problems in Makyivka, Donetsk region. Olga BODNAR to the Head of the Government of the Open Shareholders Association of the State Savings Bank for the elimination of violations in connection with the non-payment of savings to the citizens of Olga Chesnokovy and Natalia Tverdhlib through the Savings Bank office in Kiev. Ms. Gordijenka to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, the Attorney-General and on the protection of the rights of children deprived of parental care, Dmitri Hergelenko and Alexander Hergelenko to acquire the labour profession of "malar-stuktur" in Mirgorodski PTU No.44 of Poltav. Jury KRUKA to the Minister for Regional Development and Construction of Ukraine on the use of housing measures for citizens affected by the gas explosion in the village of Fontanka Kominternov district of Odessa. Sergey KOSHINA and Alexander ABDULLIN to the Head of the State Road Service of Ukraine for the allocation of funds for the maintenance of the area of the local area of the area of the area of the local road of the "Examples" - Annual - Dubrovica for the 2009 entry of the "Examples" status of the international pass point. Sergey KOSHINA and Alexander ABDULLIN to the Head of the State Road Service of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the maintenance of the Udrick - Jaden area of the Udric - Jaden region in the current year 2009 to increase freight supply and, as appropriate, to local and state budgets. Mr. Andria PAWLOWSKE to the Attorney General of Ukraine for civil rights violations in connection with the construction of a limited-liability EI-Invest office complex on the street of Polovy,12 in Kiev. Mr. Andria PAVLOWSKI to the Attorney General on the gross violation by the National Bank of Ukraine of legislation on citizens’ appeals. Vasil GRECCA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the enforcement of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code by the Prosecutor of the Ternopil Region, UBZ of the UMBU of Ukraine in the Ternopil region in the course of the criminal investigation in the context of the criminal offence of accusing a group of persons of committing crimes, as provided for in Art. 4, Art. 190, Art. 209 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Vasila PETOVKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the criminalization of Ukrainian national deputies who opposed Ukrainian security officials in performing their duties and intervened in the activities of investigators responsible for the criminal proceedings committed against NAC Naftogaz Ukraine. Gregory OMELČENA to the Attorney-General for the offence of criminal offence and for the prosecution of State officials and officials who have committed crimes, including the instigation and order of the kidnapping of journalist George Gongadze, which resulted in his murder by the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth summons and referred to in Council of Europe Resolution No.1645 on the investigation of crimes committed by senior officials under the rule of the House in the Gongadze case of Ukraine. GREGORY to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the verification of compliance with the law by the leadership of the National Bank of Ukraine in connection with the consideration of parliamentary appeals and parliamentary inquiries. Dmitry TABAKNIKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the investigation into the transfer to Romania of the shelf of the island of Snakes. Eugene KYRILČUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the falsification of documents by officials of the Volin County Trade Union, including the act of receiving basic funds from the Prolysco Children's Health Camp of the Mother's Sanatorium and the Prolysec Child. Igor KALETNIKA to the Attorney General on the criminalization of Valerius Gordeczuk for violating the law during his tenure as Director of the Kyiv Regional Branch of the State Enterprise "Centre of the State Land Cadastre of the State Committee on Land Resources". Igor KALETNIKA to the Attorney General on the inaction of the Attorney General’s Office in connection with the appeal of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to fight organized crime and corruption, as well as parliamentary appeals on criminal cases involving the smuggling of means of transport. Micheli SCHIDT to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the limitation of the right of operators to produce registration plates for transport means by Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine No.1029 of 26 November 2008 on the purchase of work for the production of registration plates for means of transport. Alexander GOLUBA to the Attorney-General on the corruption of officials of the Military Prosecutor's Office of the Zitomirski garrison, the Apartment and Exploitation Section of the Zitomirski garrison, the management of the BSS in the Zitomirsky region, the Zitomir City Council and the execution of the theft of the land of the military forces of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine and the pressure on military personnel of A3749. SERGEANT GORDIENKA to the Attorney General on the need for a thorough study of the circumstances of getting a severe injury from a private enterprise called "Pilot and K" by Ruslan Slabi while performing his duties, misinterpretation in the case and unlawful release of him from work while on medical leave. A group of national deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine to investigate the threat to a public official. [[CLUE, GREECE, ONE]] A group of national deputies to the Attorney General regarding the responsibility of the heads of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other relevant officials in connection with the inactivity or deliberate actions that have caused considerable damage to the interests of the State and the territorial integrity of Ukraine. [[MIXAGES, OXYLS, AND OTHERS]] Group of National Deputies to the Attorney-General on the failure to implement the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine by the head of the Ternopil District Council of Michael Mikolenko and the obstacles to the work of the Ternopil Regional Electoral Commission. [[Freeze, Moysik. Total 10 deputies]] Andrija ŠEVCHENKA to the Kyiv City Head on the organization and activities of the totalizer at the ipdrome of the Kyiv idrom in the conduct of horse racing and the use of the funds received from the totaliser on February 7, 2009. VADIM GROWKOVSKOVSKH to the head of the Ternopil State Administration for the allocation of funds from the local budget for the completion of the construction of the school in the village of Ivane-Puste Borsztev district of Ternopil district. VICTOR SANZENKA to the head of the Ternopil district government regarding the need to build a garbage treatment complex in the Ternopil region. Irina BELLOUSA to the head of the Ternopil State Administration for the renovation of the premises of the Field obstetric and obstetric center in the village of Tatarinci in the region of Ternopil. Alexander EDINA to the Kiev City Head on speeding up the decision to change the target destination of the previously highlighted land in Kiev on 95 Novopolov Street. Helen BONDARENKO to the Head of Audit in the Donetsk Region on the state of affairs at the state holding company Makyivwogil. SERGEANT PAULENKA to the head of the Ternopil State Administration for the capital rehabilitation of the village of Augustivka in the area of Ternopil. Jury ODARCHENKA to the Bucansk City Head of the Kyiv Region on the inaction of officials of the Society with limited responsibility for Capital Building Management and the local administration in the matter of the transfer to a balance sheet between the owners of the Bars Apartment House No.59-B on the street of Pushkinska in Butac. Dear colleagues, all the parliamentary inquiries that have come are made. The factions of Yulia Timoshenko and Our Ukraine require a 30-minute break in accordance with the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. First of all, let me apologize for the delay in the meeting of the Conciliation Council. Ladies and gentlemen, at the Conciliation Council, a presentation by the President of Ukraine on the appointment of the head of the Ukrainian Security Service was considered. Motivation is due to the fact that the process that is taking place is often uncontrollable and the Security Service should have a leader. Otherwise, it must have a definition. The points of view at the Conciliation Council were divergent. The proposal was compromised by considering this issue under the condition that a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine would be prepared in the form of a decision that would oblige us to listen to a report by the head of the Security Service after the appointment, what was going on so that we could ask a question. In particular, what is the key to the Security Service — to follow Ukrainian policies or to ensure the security of the state? The second question. In order for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to set up a commission after the validity of the Law on Temporary Commissions on Security Reform and Situation Study. That's the way it's going to be. And so that the personnel issues in this queen are resolved as required by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. When appropriate suggestions are prepared, we will then consider the matter. It depends on when the proposals are prepared and when the Supreme Council is ready to consider the matter. They insist today. We agreed that when these proposals were worked out, when the Supreme Council’s will was to make a decision. And now we're going to look at the issues set out in the schedule for today. Let's hear it. We now have to consider the report of the Interim Investigative Commission on the investigation of the state of play of the Ukrainian gas transport system and the provision of gas to consumers in 2008-2009. To exchange your thoughts, please write down the question very sensitively. Well, please, come on in for five minutes, I can hear you and I can see you, dear colleagues. Please, I would ask each faction to give its point of view on this point. On the board is the name of the National Deputies. Alexander Steshenko, please, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u3	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I ask my colleague, Goodimi Alexander Mikolaiovich, to give my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u4	People's MP Gudima. Please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u5	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, I am the deputy head of the interim commission of inquiry on gas exploration. And I want to inform you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which has not met recently, has made no decisions and there is no legal basis for considering today's report, which essentially does not exist. I mean, I'm making a proposal: because there's no report, there's no subject, I'm proposing that I take it off the table. The commission did not vote in favour of the report given to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u6	Yes, please, who's next? Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u7	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, we can argue a lot about making decisions or other decisions, but I would still like us to consider the decisions that the people of Ukraine require of us today. And the faction of Communists expresses its outrage at the fact that on December 23, a decision was still being made and the first reading of the bill, including our introduction, of a faction of Communists, which is intended to ban banks from removing property, is a car, a housing that was purchased for loans that were issued. Secondly, we demand that the loan return take place under the conditions under which this loan was taken, that is, at the rate that it was then. Next. We insist on making the right decision regarding the moratorium on prices, medicines, and foodstuffs. We also insist that an urgent decision be made regarding the approval of a list of enterprises that will be directly financed and will have to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u8	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u9	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine to Bogoslovak Inna Hermanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u10	Another divine microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, as you know, the temporary commission of inquiry is being set up to allow the opposition to control power. I would like to inform you that once the interim commission of inquiry has received documents on the illegal actions of the authorities occupied by the BUT factions, “Our Ukraine” and, unfortunately, the representative of the Lithuanian faction, have generally sabotaged the sessions of the commission. We have given the Head of the Supreme Council all the minutes of the session of the commission, which show that, starting a month ago, the representatives of BUT, Our Ukraine and the "Block of Lithuania" never came to the meeting of the commission. It is their right, but it is not their right to prevent society from hearing information about the situation in the gas market. It is your right to disagree with the report that was voted yesterday, but it is not your right to do so that society and people do not know why gas prices for the population from January 1st were doubled, which is why gas prices are set by Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u12	30 seconds. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u13	And so if you want, we can carry on for another two weeks, because we had a March 13th term. Please, I'm ready to talk to you. But what you're sabotaging is that, and then you're breaking a report in Parliament, there's not going to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u14	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the Lithuanian Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u15	Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Temporary and investigator, and special commissions have to work. And Block of Lithuania gave green light to make this committee work. I'd like to tell the honorary colleague who just took the floor to say that if we didn't vote for it, there obviously wasn't this committee and there wouldn't be a committee head who could make a public statement. But on the other hand, I am not a member of this committee, but I have led various temporary commissions. And our commission used the Supreme Council to work on the basis of the Constitution, the Supreme Council Committees Act and the Supreme Council Rules. And it is said, indeed, that the report of the commission may be when, at a minimum, the quorum at the meeting of the committee approved the report. If the report is not approved, obviously there is nothing to talk about. So I would like to be guided, not by emotion, but by how the Supreme Council should work.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u16	Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u17	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! On this issue, we can only be guided by a single document, a legal and regulatory document called the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. Article 88 of this document indicates that the report of the interim commission of inquiry should be in writing. This is part of the first article. The report should contain 4 separate items that are also defined by this article. As indicated in this article and in the preceding article, the report should be approved by the commission itself, and of course it should be distributed to the national deputies of Ukraine. There is no such document. Since we have just heard from the mouth of the first deputy, more loyal to the head of this commission of inquiry that the commission did not approve of it. Therefore, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, I also draw your attention to the distribution of part of article 87 of this Rules, which refers to the fact that in the event of failure by the interim commission of inquiry of the report of the Supreme Council of Ukraine within the time limit set by the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u18	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u19	The commission’s authorization is considered suspended the following day after the deadline for the interim commission of inquiry to report such a fact to the chairman of the plenary. In accordance with our decision to authorize this commission of inquiry, 13 ends this month. So I do propose to agree with the position of deputy head of the commission of inquiry and to postpone consideration of this issue until the report of the interim commission of inquiry is approved.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u20	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. You know very well who registered at the registration desks to have the necessary materials distributed. However. I want to tell you, the materials are distributed to those who have checked in, or those who have come to the hall, and they've been handed out here. That's the first one. The other one. I received a request from a group of national deputies who are members of the commission that the commission is not working and that its meetings are not being held. I directed this appeal to our Main Committee, headed by Alexander Sergiyovich Ephraim, asking for clarification of all the circumstances. At the same time, yesterday we had a question in our machine that we would report to the commission’s head or to the commission’s report. At the same time, we went to distribute this material because there is no record that the commission was sitting and Owen approved the report. There are documents signed by the chairman of the commission. Therefore, the proposal, which was made by the National Deputies, is to postpone consideration of the matter and to propose to the interim commission of inquiry headed by the interim commission of inquiry to submit material that were the materials of the commission of inquiry. No objections? Thank you. Have a seat, please. Question completed. Question completed. There was a motive. We've been trading. I beg of you, dear fellows. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u21	I am very sorry that the seat determines the point of view, Mr. Lithuania. Yesterday, the Head of the Supreme Council was given: first, a letter-calling with the application of all the minutes of the meeting of the commission, including the report of March 5, which approved the report. You are also provided with legal guidance showing that none of the articles of the Rules establishes the concept of “the quorum on the commission of inquiry” because, you may think, the absurdity of the situation you are proposing: the interim commission of inquiry is voted on by a minority of votes, in fact the opposition to exercise control over power. If, in a temporary commission of inquiry, the majority should vote in favour of the report. What do you say? There will be no such thing and no such thing in any of the parliaments of the world. That is why we do not have an article in the Rules to regulate the voting arrangements for such reports. You are now violating the rights of opposition. You're doing it consciously. So if you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u22	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Please finish your speech. 30 seconds. We're not discussing the issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u23	I'm asking you to continue. You are now violating the rights of opposition. If you want everything to be normal, please put to the vote the question of transferring the report for two weeks, for the 20th. If you vote, it's a signed, signed protocol. If you do not vote, I will not leave this rostrum until the report is heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think there's any need to sharpen this issue. But at the same time, I want to say that if there are any problems, you could go to the Head of the Supreme Council, whose point of view is not defined by the seat. Because he doesn't serve financial and oligarchic interests. That's the first one. And the others. We would then hold TSC meetings on my part and make decisions. Therefore, the suggestion was that we should now postpone the next plenary week for the next Friday to consider the matter. And I don't think there's any need for a hysteric here before March 8th. All of it. A draft law on border control is being announced for consideration. Registration number 3123. Please report from the scene, who's reporting? Please report from the scene.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u25	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Your attention is on the draft Ukrainian Border Control Act. The project consists of five chapters that combine the 26 articles and the final positions. The purpose of the bill is to define at the legislative level the legal basis for border control, procedures, rules and conditions for crossing the state border. At present, this type of State control is determined by regulations, government decrees, and documents issued on the basis of them. The absence of a special law that clearly defines the relationship between all participants in the movement during the crossing of the State border. The regulation of these procedures by numerous regulations makes it difficult for individuals to pass through the State border. Thus, the definition at the legislative level of border control issues would meet the requirements of article 19 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The bill defines a number of new approaches to cross-border control. The bill establishes a number of money, a simplified procedure for crossing the border, a special order for crossing aliens, a distinction between passenger flows, the specificity of border controls at different points of entry, the specificity of border controls in individual categories of persons, and the delimitation of areas of responsibility. The draft law is the priority of Ukrainian citizens' rights, its so-called internal orientation and complies with the European Union standards enshrined in the Schengen Borders Code. The adoption of the project will help to improve border control procedures, especially in Euro-12. The project is agreed upon without notice with all interested authorities. Six committees are positive. and supported the bill. Please support the bill in the first reading and on the basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u26	Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko is the head of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u27	Thank you. Dear colleagues, our committee unanimously supported this bill, it brings our border protection system to order. What is more, a pilot experiment has been carried out to confirm the correctness of the proposed positions. There are some comments that will allow you to accept it later on in the second reading. The committee suggests that it be supported in the first reading today. And the discussion I'm proposing is done with a reduced procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, we have to leave. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Come on. May I have your attention, please? Let's stop the question now. I will give the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council a minute to speak. I realize that we need to get out of this wedge, especially on the day before March 8, although the position was quite clear and that we are considering it next Friday. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u29	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! I think we should agree with the proposal Vladimir Mihajlovich made. Given the situation today in the Hall, and indeed the fact that, on 8 March, well, it is illogical for our colleague to demonstrate his rights in this Parliament. We would therefore like to encourage our colleagues to consider this issue at the next plenary meeting on Friday. Thanks in advance.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u30	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, I reaffirm the proposal just made by the chairman of the committee that next Friday we will consider the matter. At the same time, I request the head of the Temporary Special Commission, members of the Temporary Special Commission, to hold a meeting. It's clear in the protocol to record your position, your esteemed colleagues, your disagreement, if possible, a special thought. And we have to listen to the report, make a decision, or we will constantly transform and channel these conflicts that no one needs. But this must be the commission's decision. Thank you. I believe there is an understanding? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it's not. All of it. Please, have a seat. Please, we've already made a deal. Well, I'm asking you, well, we have a deal. Well, please, I don't need an offer from the Supreme Council. Turn on the microphone, please. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, since sabotage, which was in power, can help us resolve the speaker, I invite Mr. Speaker to the board meeting and I hope that the authorities will come to the TSC meeting. Thank you. We'll send you an offer in writing, like everyone else. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u32	Thank you. I think it's just a matter of agreeing on time. And with regard to power, I want to say that the Supreme Council is the largest and most powerful and decisive authority in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the proposal was from the committee's head to consider the issue that we are discussing is Bill 3123. I'm going to put a motion to vote to consider the bills set out today, including this bill, under a reduced procedure. Please vote. This bill, please. [[11:40:40]] For 209 Decision taken. Please, Your Honor, sign up for a two-in-pro, two-again. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u33	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I would like to speak as a national deputy and say that this bill has been discussed at a meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Human Rights, National Less and International Relations, because some of the positions of this bill correspond to the competence of our committee. We discussed the bill seriously enough with the responsible officials involved and concluded that this was obviously what was to be done and what was to be voted on. What do I mean? It is clear that the issue of border control is regulated in different laws, in different normative acts. Here is an attempt, and in the opinion of our committee and my personal opinion as a national MP, an attempt has been made to consolidate all those positions that apply to border control. I've got this bill on my hands, here's its volume, here's its volume. It really accumulates and focuses everything that's related to the title of the bill, something that, unfortunately, we often don't have. I always say that the title of the bill does not correspond to the content of the bill. This is where it all fits. At the same time, some suggestions were made at the committee meeting, some questions, though technical, but representatives of the foreign service, agreed with us. We'll bring them in from the committee in preparation for the second reading, and I think they'll improve this bill even more. I feel that there is no reason to deny the adoption of such a solid, extensive and solid bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u34	People's Deputy Pudov, Timoshenko Street.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u35	Pudov, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. I ask you to support this bill of our colleagues in the first reading, because we will have time to complete this bill with the comments that Grishenko and Zarubinski made. I think that this bill will only improve its own when it is once again carefully considered on the committee, all the proposals made by the people's deputies will be taken into account. And I also think Nikolai Mikhailovich will take into account what needs to be done in this bill. To the poet, I ask my colleagues to support and vote on this bill as a basis, in the first reading, to accept it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u36	Adem Ivanovich Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, I think many of us have the opportunity to cross the border or to get to know the foreign service, to see their work. Unfortunately, to this day and so on, until this law enters into force, the border guards act on the basis of some decrees of the President, or decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers, or even internal orders of the State Border Service. At the same time, the number of citizens crossing our Ukrainian border has increased by more than a third over the past three years. In view of the fact that we are getting close to you, and I am sincerely convinced, like all of you, that there will be a European championship in Ukraine in 2012, there will be no doubt about that date, and especially for 2012, we will have a substantial increase in the number of people who want to visit the country of Ukraine. There is no doubt that this law should be passed, and I think that the final outcome will be to create a border code, because there is already a law on the state border of Ukraine, now, I hope, there will be a law on the crossing of the border, other legislative acts, which will have to be translated into a single code. Although this does not have anything to do with the reporter who spoke of cross - border problems today, as far as the border is concerned, I would like to look again at those who have a bearing on it. Let us, the State of Ukraine, have pride. We allowed the 50 nations of the world to visit our country without a visa. Most of them responded negatively. So let's finally solve this problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u38	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u39	I suggest the faction will vote in favour of the adoption of this law in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u40	People's deputy to Popescu, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u41	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Fellow dignitaries, we advocate accepting in the first reading, but we would like to pay attention to articles 11 and 12. Article 11, paragraph 5, stipulates that in the case of simplified border controls, foreign or stateless persons must be marked as crossings of the state border. At the same time, if you look at the following article, paragraph 12, paragraph 4, it is written: the State border crossing mark is not placed in a passport document at the request of a foreigner for whom a visa-free entry order is set. But “the visa-free order of entry ” does not mean that this passport is not affixed. We have to do this in the Schengen countries: if they don't stand up and ask him to prove that he was on a mission, then it's going to happen; if it doesn't, it's going to be absolutely not. creates additional problems, because any of the aliens, if there is no visa regime, will require it. And this order will not be possible for all countries. Therefore, we suggest that we accept it in the first reading, but let us pay attention to it. This is the first shade. And the second shade. Article 14. Hence, refusal to enter. On entering Ukraine to foreigners and stateless persons. And it says here when you can't deny it. He cannot be denied if he is concerned about granting such status. Thus, any foreigner who comes to our border has reached our border, he immediately demands status, asylum, and then we can't bring him back on that basis. So we need to work so that we don’t have to have problems so that all of us who want to enter Ukraine, just get to the border and immediately demand the status of a refugee or asylum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, draft Law 3123 has been completed. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. There are no other objections. Suggestions? So I'm voting on a proposal by the adoption committee based on the draft Border Control Act. [[Registration number 3123]] Please vote. [[11:49:24]] For 377 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Export Act is being announced. National MP Pisarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u43	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I propose to vote in favour of the short-term procedure all the bills because we voted only for this bill. I ask you to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u44	The point is, since there's a denial, I'm just going to put every bill on short notice. Please, Paul Zebrowsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u45	Unfortunately, our law - enforcement work has become the printing of laws. The thoughtful, serious consideration of fundamental laws that affect different aspects of social life does not take place. We're passing laws with you two weeks from now, and we're making changes to these laws. And people, excuse me, call, write letters about the fact that the quality of the laws that we adopt because we have to adopt laws quickly, there is no law. And these laws further aggravate the legal status of the owners, just natural persons. And I'm convinced that it's the economic bill, the bill that touches people's social issues, that you can't accept it as a shootout course. It takes a thorough, serious approach to these bills. I'm asking the Supreme Council not to turn into an authority to print incomprehensible bills that change in two weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u46	The observation is absolutely correct. At the same time, I am putting to the vote the proposal to review the 2700 bill in short motion. [[11:51:35]] For 178. Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Export, Import and Return of Cultural Values is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is Vladislav Viktorovich Kornienko, First Deputy Minister of Culture and Tourism. The focal point will be the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Vladimir Alexanderovich Yavorowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u47	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Your view is proposed by the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Export, Import and Return of Cultural Values, which is designed to improve State control over the movement of cultural values and to create an integrated governance structure in this area. In fact, we've set three basic directions. Two directions are proposed by the authorities in the area of export, import, return of cultural values to determine: the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is a special authority of executive authority in the field of export, import, return of cultural values; the administration of culture by the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Kyiv, Sevastopol, City Government Administrations. Another reason for preparing these changes to the law, an important reason, we believe, is that the need to adopt this act is the absence of a legal mechanism that would contribute to greater public policy in the area of the restitution of cultural values. Of course, there are still issues related to the liberalisation of existing legislation. There are questions that need to be worked out during the discussions. Nevertheless, the cultural values that have been transferred to Ukraine as a result of World War II and stored in State vaults are in accordance with Ukraine’s property and are determined by law as a partial compensation for the damage caused during World War II. The transfer of cultural values is based on their exchange at the same time, lost by Ukraine or similar to historical cultural art. At the same time, the proposed draft law makes it impossible to unilaterally transfer cultural values to other states. Given the importance of these trends and the importance of this document for the preservation and multiplication of Ukrainian cultural heritage, we leave. The meeting is chaired by the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council Ukraine LAWRINOVICH O.V.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u48	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u49	get the first reading and all the questions that need to be worked out today. This law, we agree with the legal conclusion of the Chief Legal Department of the Cabinet, we are ready to work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u50	Have a seat, please. Javorovsky's report, Vladimir Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u51	Dear Parliamentarians! Dear voters! I just want to remind you that historically, Ukraine did not have its statehood for a long time -- this is the main reason that, of course, a great many unique cultural monuments, cultural values that the Ukrainian nation had and had, were exported. Some were taken to Russia, of course, and others to Austria-Hungary. So there were historical reasons for that. And today comes that time, I repeat, with Ukrainian nationality, in order to collect this gold stone, so I would call it, which is scattered around the world. There was a law passed in the 1990s on export, import and transfer of cultural values. At that time, this law was indeed progressive and accurate. But today the situation has changed, new realities, new needs have emerged, and there is a real opportunity and a need to improve this law. The Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Culture have done this work. I wouldn't call this bill perfect, because of that and languages, it can't be about accepting it both in the first reading and immediately completely, because there are a lot of questions that need to be answered. Let's say that I personally and on a committee we can't agree to hand over the function of permission to export or import abroad or to export abroad, to allow local authorities to do so. A very subtle thing that can cause a tremendous wave of corruption and so forth. I think things like unique values should be controlled by the state. What is good about this bill is that in order to allow something to be removed from Ukraine, there must be permission from the Supreme Council. It's very important and we'll support it. And without us, without the people's deputies, it can never be done. I want to emphasize what is usually the most important thing today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u52	Vladimir Aleksandrovich, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u53	This, of course, helps our diaspora more. Today, most of the arrivals are from abroad: manuscripts, unique documents, photographs and so on, they're the ones who're handing it over. But there is still a period when very complex interstate relations are to take place. As a result, the committee asks you to support this bill in the first reading and intensification for the second reading, and to allow us to work on it and then bring it up for discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u54	Thank you. Sit down, please. Two — “for”, two — “against”. School of Andriy Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u55	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Here I'd essentially like to say a few words here when we talk about importing and exporting values, this law is not about exporting the values of state importance that we have under the care of the state. This bill shows what it says, I'm sorry, that it regulates the export-importation of items that are considered to be artistic acquisitions. So if we want to introduce a painting of a famous French artist into the country, we need permission from both the exporting countries and the importing countries, Ukraine. Similarly, it takes permission to export and import from Ukraine a painting of a well - known Ukrainian artist in order to obtain a similar permit. And that's actually what this is about, and this is a fair discussion. Therefore, in the first reading, support and further discuss who should grant similar permission. I think it's going to be a special authority, it's going to be a customs authority, it might actually be a special organ, but it's arbitrary, it doesn't do, let's say, research on the quality of this piece and its height and its impact on, let's say, Ukrainian cultural heritage, because when a modern Ukrainian artist is going to have to go beyond Ukraine to do, to go through a colossal procedure, to go around dozens of corridors. The second part of the bill touches on so-called restorative things, the return of cultural values. That is, the things left to Ukraine after World War II are, of course, claimed by this law as compensation for the lost tens of thousands of appointments of cultural values of our spiritual heritage of Ukrainian. We've lost her, unfortunately, we're working to get her back. So I think in the first reading, we have to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u56	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have now 11 o'clock 59 minutes. Given that we've already had a break of 40 minutes in connection with the statement by the two factions, I'm asking you not to call it a recess, but to continue our work until 1300 hours. No objections? There's a denial. Adam Ivanovich demands that it be a decision. I bet the vote on the proposal to continue the work of the morning plenary without interruption. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:00:40]] For 206 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I will then ask that we at least complete the consideration of this law. Will there be a denial? It won't. If we don't go into the 15 minutes that I'm going to continue this meeting, then I'm going to ask your permission to vote so that we can finish this consideration. Hare Ivan Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u57	Dear National Deputies, John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian People's Party. The law is very important. What is happening today in the area of cultural values, their preservation, I think, needs a lot of attention in order to preserve the heritage of the Ukrainian people. As far as the bill is concerned, it seems to me that it can be improved in three ways. The first group of questions is terminology itself, the definition itself. Because the bill doesn't have a lot of clues, and that could lead to very sad consequences. In particular, what is 'importing', what is 'exporting'? If you don't have that concept, you can take cultural values as temporary, and they can actually be alienated. So we need to distinguish both import and export and alienation. The second thing you have to say in this bill is the lines. Which document should define these lines, how the legislative mechanisms for setting these strings should be defined. Because once again, you can get it out, you can take it as if it were temporary, and these cultural values remain forever. So in this bill, we have to have it. Maybe you have to define the terms in the contract, which is to think very well in this direction. And the last. This should be liberalized if we are to import cultural values into Ukraine. Because all these VATes, these other things, they just create obstacles. And we are interested in returning to Ukraine and importing the values that were once exported, the values that today can be acquired abroad and enriched, and enriching our culture. So I propose that this bill be adopted in the first reading and that I work in the direction of my comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u58	Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u59	Respectable colleagues will not vote for the Communist faction in the project on the basis of the following considerations. The sixth article should be deleted from the consideration. Because there's a strange thing going on. Our people suffered during the Great Homeland War. Once again, I would like to recall that 70 per cent of the potential of the European Union, including Ukraine, has been destroyed and wiped out. And, of course, compensation, including cultural objects, was partial. Therefore, they cannot be the subject of conversation. What's more, let's say we give up for some other cultural values. They paid for the shooting and killing of more than 20 million Soviet citizens during the Great Homeland War. Next. Establishment of an additional body. Well, I think it is not in these circumstances that an additional body should be established, but rather that the State authorities, especially the Ministry of Culture, should do so rather than create additional bodies. Next. I would like to draw further attention to one question. We need to do an audit of the spares now. Because, according to our information, the Communist factions, there's already a lot of copies in the spares, not the originals. The originals have grown as a result of the work of this bandit power today. One more question. We need to see how our cultural values are not maintained today. They were distributed to the President's Secretariat, distributed to the Cabinet of Ministers, and hung on the walls. Excuse me, but by law, what temperature conditions are there, so to speak, security? Comrades, the most important issue with you today is to ensure that cultural institutions are accessible to every citizen, regardless of his or her property status. It is therefore necessary today to review the overall policy in the interests of, above all, simple labourers and the accessibility of the culture and cultures of institutions. Today we need to look very closely at how we shape culture in our growing generation and return the trade union and even the remaining cultural palaces.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u60	Finish it, Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u61	I'm done. State support for the development of child creativity. Then we'll have to deal with the issue in the complex. For the time being, I believe that the draft cannot be adopted as proposed by the authors of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u62	Smoker Dmitry Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u63	Dear Chairman, my fellow officers! We have a striking discrepancy between the name of the law and the content. He, the reverend Vladimir Alexanderovich, gives nothing to collect that gold stone because he is not able to import cultural values into Ukraine at any rate, unless it is government or municipal acquisition. And we know very well that in the last 18 years, Ukraine's greatest cultural and artistic acquisition has been the collection of private collectors. There's no word. But I wanted to talk about something else. This law, unfortunately, is completely beyond survival, the reservation of modern Ukrainian art. Why? Because no foreign collector, museums, or galleries will be able to buy anything because people usually arrive for a short period of time, and the trouble is given in less than a month. This means that all of our natives from Russia or Canada, from France, no artist, no sculptor at Andrivian Imports will be able to get out sooner than a month later. Next. The temporary mode of import is basically the destruction of any part of modern living artists in foreign inserts, because everyone who wants to move out their jobs has to provide guarantees of reliable preservation of returns and so on. None of the modern - day gallerykeepers will be able to do so. Next. This is a very well-written aspect of restitution, but the state in the small cases where cultural values returned, it decided by means of a special decision of the Urdu. The main conclusion is that this law is designed to make it easier to work for people who engage in bureaucratic creativity. I think this law needs to be either processed very carefully or rereaded.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u64	Thank you, Dmitri Volodyrovich. Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, it has happened that I and my colleague, Svetoslav Olijnik, have registered a bill with the same name that applies to this law, and I would like to say that by supporting the position of many speakers that there are two very serious problems that are in principle not regulated by this bill. The first problem is that, as we care about Ukrainian culture today, we've done everything we can not to import into us, not to return cultural values, because first you import them, you'll have 10 documents on your customs. How would you get your papers if you bought them, for example, from a private collector? You have to pay the tribute and then prove that you're an honest, normal person who wants to restore cultural value to Ukraine. So in our bill, we set up a simplified import procedure. And I believe that without a simplified procedure for importing cultural values, such a law is not necessary. The same problem applies to exports. If we take taxes from a modern Ukrainian artist who exports his painting to an exhibition, none of the Ukrainian artists will go to the exhibitions. So without these two ideas, such a law is not necessary. That's why we need to determine: either in the first reading and conceptually change the bill, or, in fact, then send it for work and prepare a new bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u66	Thank you. The discussion is over. I'm voting for acceptance. It is not possible, since Adam Ivanovich knows the Rules, the faction acted. So I am voting on the adoption of draft Law No. 2700 – amending the Ukrainian Act on Export, Import and Return of Cultural Values. Please vote. [[12:10:36]] For-166 The decision is not taken. It was suggested that Dmitry Volodymyrovich Tobacco should refer this bill to the rereading of the first reading. I'm putting this motion to a vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:11:05]] For-189 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 42 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u67	Please invite the national deputies to the session room so that we can continue our work, and the head of the National Security and Defence Committee. Do you have Anatoly Stepanovich? Please, Martinyuk microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u68	Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Allow me to use the 29th article in Part 1 of the Supreme Council Rules and make a statement to the presiding officer at the previous meeting by 12 p.m. Alexander Volodymirovich. I, using this article, wanted to make him a presiding officer that, unfortunately, constantly violating the Rules, despite the fact that part of the Hall is voting in favour of a reduced procedure, he gives the floor to the speech of the Tomenko People's Deputy. If Tomenko wants to speak, have him sign up or have him hand over the faction for the performance. And for every reason, just because he's sitting next to you, that's the right the Rules don't give to you or him. Therefore, I ask you not to allow such a thing to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u69	Thank you. Note accepted. I would ask all my respected colleagues not to insist on performing when they have not been able to sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u70	No, we want to maintain tolerance. We're fine. Dear colleagues! Let me inform you that at the Conciliation Council, we agreed that we would consider appointing the head of the National Security and Defence Service, and at the same time we were invited to adopt an appropriate draft decision concerning the organization of the Ukrainian Security Service. The corresponding project is now being distributed to you. The main positions of this document were agreed upon at the Conciliation Council. So, if you don't mind, I'm going to ask for a review of the appointment of Valentin Navejchenka as head. What? Dear colleagues, there is no need to vote in favour of the day-to-day staff issue. We are now approaching this issue. Therefore, the question of the appointment of the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Valentina Nastavajchenka, is under review. Let's do it this way, dear fellows. We will listen to the opinion and position of the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, and then we will move on to a practical decision. If anyone needs to make a statement on this subject, you and I will make the right decision. Is there no objection? You don't? Please, Gregory Smythech, microphone. Please invite the deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u71	Vladimir Mikhailovich! Garbage, Party of Regions. If you've now asked about the consideration of such an important position as a candidate that we should present here, I want to make a note that we as a national MP have no material on this person, that is, not an autobiography, not his other documents that bear witness to this person. I personally can't even get to know these documents because they don't exist in the national MPs. So I don't think that this issue can now be considered until this time until these documents are handed over to the National Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, Gregory Smytheuch is right. But we are obviously forced and obliged to take into account your observation, quite just, if these documents had not been submitted twice or three times to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And the Ukrainian national deputies received these documents. So we just have to look at them in the MP's archives. We all have them. So, dear colleagues, I would ask that we move on to a practical consideration of the matter. The chairman of the National Security and Defence Committee, Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko, is invited to attend. Please, Anatoly Stepanovich. How much do you need?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u73	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, a respected colleague, has made the issue quite obvious today in this order of political thinking because it was not planned. And it is likely that the decision will also be made for political reasons. On the one hand, the Supreme Council can do anything. I really wanted the Supreme Council to be able to do everything wisely. I can report the decision of the committee that was taken a month ago during the second submission of this candidature. Then, in support of the President's proposals, there was one vote in favour, and there was no more. And the committee's proposal was to reject this candidate. Now, I'm going to follow this decision personally, and today, it matches my own position. I will not support the candidature of the complainant. What warnings were made by members of the committee after a rather lengthy, more than an hour of discussion? They were due because this is a modern man who has a European vision of the mission, the role of this special service, under whose direction a new edition of the BSP law has been prepared with our committee, there are some serious good intentions for a strategic perspective. At the same time, while serving as the first intercessor and then acting as the acting representative, we all know, illegally, during this period, the service was extremely depoliticized, deprofessionalized, and negative consequences we were able to observe. This service, according to members of the committee, should be headed by a strong person, a person who can withstand external influences from wherever they come from — from the President, government, or national deputies. We are convinced that such a person is unfortunately not a strong, proposed candidate. Through his head, dozens of human resources were assigned at the level of substitutes, at the level of the heads of the regional divisions. It's all just been taken without any response. We understand that he was a doer of duties, but nevertheless, of character, either he is or he is not. And that's the problem. Hence, it is clear that most deputies will be guided by decisions made or made by factions. And if you're interested in a professional point of view, I'm going to confirm it again, we're going to suggest that you reject this candidate. I'll vote against it myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u74	Anatoly Stepanovich, there is a question. Let's sign up for the questions. Dear colleagues, what, five minutes, huh? Come on, five minutes. Please sign up for the question. Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u75	Of course, strange things happen. On the one hand, if I am not mistaken, many questions were raised the other day. But I understand your logic: what is happening in the Security Service today raises a lot of questions. And we realize that a person who fulfills his duties is not forced to serve but to serve. And if you have a voice, make a decision. Our faction as a faction, which alone represents opposition today, is not involved in any personnel issues, but we are. Well, Adam Ivanovich, I can specify, come on. At least there are no representatives in the leadership of the Ukrainian State Committees. And Mr. Timoshenko represents you in power today. So please don't talk. So if there are voices.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u76	Let me finish. It's all right, isn't Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u77	In fact, there was no such question. It was a position. Only clarification: Nadravichenko is a "guil" and he is not a general and has no military rank except a reserve officer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u78	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u79	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi. We have a coalition that degrades us. Well, the hell with her! Please give the word to Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u80	Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u81	Dear Anatoly Stepanović, first of all, I would like to thank you for your principled state position, for not Julying the coalition's decision, but expressing the view that you have in mind. And questions to you two. First question. Have you spoken to Ádrejchenko today? If I don't get the same picture as Ogreska, which will be on TV in two hours and say I refuse to go to this position and take off, I didn't agree to my candidacy here. And then the Supreme Council will look ridiculous at all. And I don't know, Vladimir Mikhailovich, what we're going to do in this situation. That's the first question. And the second question. Do you not see the intent of the conspiracies that exist today that the BUT initiates a vote for the nátvajchenko, that the nátvajchenko will close?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u82	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u83	That, already approved in office, there would be violations in the gas transport system and gas supply in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u84	Thank you for the questions. First. I didn't talk to Nadvajchenko today. There was a thorough conversation yesterday. He wants to be appointed to this service. He will not withdraw his candidacy. He's out today. I answer the question in the language in which the question was asked. I beg you not to teach me, Mr. Hare. It is not available today for a good reason. The year Mom died, he just went to the grave. Now the second part. It's hard for me to talk about motivation. But I will tell you, from the point of view of the public interest of all of you, 46 million so that the president of the service is not liable to anyone and no one's business, the gears, if any, are not covered up, but on the watch of the law. That was another argument that was problematic in the discussion of the candidature on the Committee. Because the service under the leadership of Nativajchenko, even... could have stopped the 16 helicopters in the army, did not stop. She could have stopped the Armors of the Tender Chamber. She wouldn't have stopped. And many others, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u85	Zinovo Shkutak, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u86	Please pass the word to Stojko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u87	Ivan Stojko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u88	Dear Anatoly Stepanovich, distinguished colleagues, actually a month ago the committee was considering the matter. And I was one of the ones who supported Mr. Nadvajchenko on his head. So I think this person is professional and, as you say, he's not a character, I think he has the same character in defending Ukrainian interests. The time will pass, and we will all understand that he is doing much both historically and today, and also for the future of our state. That is why I think that today only such a man of principle can serve as head of the National Security Service. I'd like the hall to support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u89	Thank you, Ivan Mikhailovich. I respect your right to your position, so I hope you respect my right to my position. When I talked about character, everyone was talking about themselves, I was the secretary of defense in three governments, there were attempts on the part of different leaders, the president, the prime ministers, to influence personnel. No personnel assignment was influenced by anyone, that is to say, by a blow.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u90	Yuri Carmazin. The faction “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u91	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Dear Anatoly Stepanovich, I thank you for your position, I support the view that a person who has abused laws and the Constitution for 2.5 years, because the law gives only the right of a month to perform duties that covered financial, smuggling equipment and schemes that have done nothing to stop those things on helicopters and on various things that allowed the presence of representatives of another state with which there is no agreement in the central apparatus, obviously could not have been there. I'd like you to tell us how we're moving into civilian control and how the committee is going to do civilian control of the Ukrainian Security Service because there's civilian control all over the world.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u92	Thank you for asking. And it was in this part that there was effective cooperation with the landowner, and I want to be objective. During the year, a joint working group of representatives of the Service worked, including veterans of the Service and previous leaders, such as Malikova, Radchenk, and others. A new law on the Security Service was prepared. He was recommended on behalf of the President's service in order to submit to the Supreme Council. Not yet. According to the President's unofficial information, there is a great deal of parliamentary control. We've made a decision on the committee and we're going to introduce this bill on behalf of the deputies. We are co-authors, and we have the right. And then parliamentary control in the sense that you're talking about it will be implemented if we support it here in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u93	Yes, thank you, Anatoly Stepanovich, time is up. Please, Adam Martinyuk Replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u94	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, you've heard the performance of an active opposition, right, a man with quite a small party experience in that party he represents. And I'm not surprised that he certainly doesn't know that the leaders of this party are part of the President's immediate environment and how many of them are there, as they form part of today's active government, members of this so-called opposition party, as far as it is known to be in the leadership of the party. I don't want to call specific people because they're mostly women, and before March 8, I wouldn't want to mention them. And as far as the forest is concerned, the attitude of the communists is that the forest is our wealth and must be preserved, because we hope that we will need it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u95	Thank you. Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? That's not what they called it, if they call it a last name, then there'll be a replica. I beg your attention, they didn't call names. Please, John the Rabbit. Please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u96	Volodymyr Mikhailovich! John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. I understand that the election campaign has already begun. And so-called hypothetical presidential candidates will spin like snakes to please the electorate. It's me that's keeping an eye on the legislation on national language. The status should be exercised. And on that point. What we do today around law enforcement: we don't finance, we don't insult, we only say one thing that we don't think about perspective. I find it strange that each of you knows that we have a lot of mafia and corruption. Once someone has been caught by the tail, they yell at what is being used by some law enforcement organization and let us water here. Let's fight Mafia and corruption. And stop. It's my fault.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u97	Thank you. The point is correct. In accordance with article 2 of the Rules of Procedure, meetings are held in national languages, and this is what we do. And if a person speaks in a different language, a translation should be provided. If you are ready, Ivan Alexandrovich, find the opportunity to provide a translation. Your point is also taken into account. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? If there's no objection. Now. Dear colleagues, you will prepare for the vote, Gregory Smitsch, and we will. We need to keep calm. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u98	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Vladimir Mikhailovich, as a national MP, using the Constitution of Ukraine, please ensure my right, namely: in the part where I personally have to ask a question to the future head of the Ukrainian Security Service, taking into account the state of affairs that we have today in the country. Because there is much that depends on this person during the electoral campaign and during the period of our unstable situation. So how can we exercise that right, ask the right question, and get the answers? Please give me a specific answer. How can I use this right? And why is this question being considered without him, if that's why he's having an anniversary today, that's an important reason. But the reason is not that we cannot communicate with the future candidate. Thank you. So please take this off the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, those. I'm asking for your attention. Please, Alexander Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u100	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, when we agreed on the Conciliation Council today, and you have proposed a perfectly correct solution to this issue, no matter what the rush is, we are putting this situation in a deadlock today. Then let's remember. When we voted on the government's resignation, you convinced us that if there were staff issues, then let's look at who was in the hall, declare officially that there were no people in the room, MPs. And then go to the vote. If you vote on this candidature, please vote. But announce those who are absent in the room, and then proceed to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u101	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I'm asking the Secretariat to make such proposals that they're not there officially. That's the first one. And the second. Unfortunately, I regret to say that when we agreed that there were five people who were missing, who obviously didn't work because no one blocked their cards, unfortunately, respected colleagues, their ballots voted, except for one faction. It's a faction of Communists. Whoever did not, they honestly said that those people would not participate in the vote. So let's be mutually tolerant. And one more moment, dear fellows! As to the question that Gregory Smytheuch was asking. We also agreed on a draft decision that will be handed down to you. That's what it's all about. I'll read it to you. That when we make a decision, it is clear what will be the future of events. First. Consider it appropriate to create a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council on the reform of the Security Service and its legislative provisions. The other one. Recommend to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine that the review of the decisions taken on personnel matters be initiated without delay with a view to bringing them into line with the Constitution and the Ukrainian Security Service Act. And the third. Hearing at a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 17 March 2009 a report by the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the status of functioning and staffing of the Ukrainian Security Service and the management of property that ensures its operation. Keep going. So we have to solve the question. When the Supreme Council of Ukraine appoints a full head of the Ukrainian Security Service to listen to the report and prepare for the report and ask any questions to be asked. Therefore, with this in mind, my distinguished colleagues, I would like to draw attention to the vote of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Supreme Decree, registration number 3642, on the appointment of Valentina Navejchenka as head of the Ukrainian Security Service. Please vote. [[13:06:53]] For 230 Decision accepted. Now, dear fellows, I ask you to vote for it. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, “Club of Timoshenko” – 149, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 61, Communist faction – 0, “Club of Lithuania” – 20. Dear colleagues, please let us now include this draft decision in the agenda so that we can ensure proper control of the Security Service. I ask you to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine draft Decree 4167 on certain matters of the organization of the Ukrainian Security Service. Please vote. Dear colleagues, this is what we need, let's vote for it. [[13:07:57]] For 232 They've put it in order of the day. There's a draft decision for you. Can we take her? I am voting on the adoption as a basis and as a whole as a decision on the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on certain matters of the organization of the activities of the Ukrainian Security Service. [[Registration number 4167]] Please vote. [[13:08:35]] For 233 Decision taken. Let's move on, dear fellows, to the “Virgin”, to the performances, right? We've already accepted. We accepted it as a whole. I asked, they said, you can.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, I would like to ask the National Deputies to sign up for the various performances. We'll be working in 14 hours. Oleg Zarubinsky gives the word to the national deputy Shershun. Please. Please explain. Wait a minute, let me see. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, I gave the floor to the National Deputy of Shershun. Colleagues talk about what they didn't hear when the recording took place. Let's not get into trouble here, let's rewrite it. Come on, please, let's get everybody on the screen for the recording that happened. Dear colleagues, if there's no objection, we're in this mode. I see this balance is saved on the second record. I give the floor to the national deputy of Shershun. And to the factions, please come to me, and let's now guess who's giving the word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u103	Mikola Shershun, “Block Lithuania”. Dear Head, distinguished national deputies, dear women! First of all, I'd like to welcome all the Ukrainians to the upcoming March 8th celebration. Our women are the most beautiful and the most beautiful, and so I turn to all men, always, not just for the holidays, respect, support and inspire our women, give them only warmth, smiles and love, they deserve it. And now I want to draw your attention to an extremely important issue: providing quality drinking water to the population. Imagine for just a few hours that drinking water is disappearing on earth, mankind and all life will die instantly, and then no money and no power will be able to prevent evil. And this is not fantastically far from reality, but in Ukraine today there is a big problem in providing quality drinking water to the population, particularly in the northern areas contaminated by radionuclides as a result of the CHAES accident. To address this issue, the government budget provided for the cost of drilling artesian wells. Costs for these jobs were allocated within the allocations for the development of the mineral raw materials base and were spent on doing nothing but pine work. The further introduction of drills was made at the expense of local budgets. Unfortunately, there is no specific funding for the drilling of artesian wells in the budget and in the General Programme for the development of Ukraine's mineral and raw materials for the period up to 2010. Programmes have not yet been developed to provide quality drinking water for the population living on contaminated areas in Chernobyl’s AES, although the decision to develop the programme was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine as early as 2004. The government’s decision recommended the development and approval of an appropriate national programme. It was suggested that children’s, educational, and medical facilities should be provided with drinking water. But to date, this program has been suspended in the air, not developed, lost in the power corridors. So I'm going to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine with proposals. First. The government will urgently develop and approve the application. The other one. To anticipate this year's funding of work on drilling artesian wells at no less than last year's and to significantly increase the financing of these works for state geological enterprises, especially geology that works in the Zitomirsk, Chernigivsk, Kyivsk, Volinsk and Ravensk areas. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, if you don't mind, because we actually have some factions, someone supported, a voice was, someone didn't support, we got a little nervous, we signed up for the second time. If you don’t mind having one in five, the Party of Regions just didn’t sign up for the second time, so that in the race of five the authorized one would give us a person from the Party of Regions to this record, and we would maintain proportionality. If you don't mind, I'll give every five a word from the Party of Regions. I now give the floor to John the Rabbit. Prepare the factions of the Communists, and the Party of the Regions will give. What? I can't hear you? Excuse me, Ivan Stojko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u105	Thank you. John Stoyk, “For Ukraine! ” Mr. Chairman, respectable colleagues, distinguished radio audiences, TV sets! On the day of March 9, we will celebrate a glorious date for Ukraine, the birth of the giant Ukrainian spirit, Taras Shevchenk. The genius of his creativity is not only in literary perfection, the artistic representation of life and the world, but the power of historical prophecy, the reasoning and revelation of Ukraine’s history, its past, modern and future. The profound content of its poetic version of Ukrainian history is that the past is a collective sin and the present is a punishment for it. And who knows whether today is not a continuation of this social and spiritual process in which there is still benefit, betrayal, wickedness, dishonor? Current today is the disgrace of Shevchenk to the natives -- the little ones who secretly and openly moved into the service of the Russian Empire -- who despised their own -- Ukrainian. It's a good example that we've been looking into the question of assigning the National University of Donetsk's name to Stus. Sadly, even the director of the National Writer Association kept his mouth shut. And other factions who voted "against" feared and said that it was like fascism. Another example is the resignation of a minister who was a worthy defender of Ukraine, Minister Ogryzka. And again, I'm not surprised by the factions that are sitting under red flags or blue flags, but I'm surprised by the factions that were talking about patriotism yesterday, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko, who just voted, sent patriot Vladimir Ogryzka to resign. So I want to say that for Taras Shevchenk, it is not a comfort or a mockery of spiritual treachery, but rather a tragedy as a total national sin. The symbol of Ukraine in its romantic semantics is “roast grave. ” And does not Ukraine today remind us of this? - the grave where politicians go to fuck up to win the bead and rule the Ukrainian state. Indeed, it is a disgrace to those politicians who do not think about tomorrow. And that's why I've deliberately stopped at certain aspects of Shevchenk's creativity, and I know what difficult times the Ukrainian people are going through today -- the misery of material, moral, spiritual poverty continues to be an anxiety, doubt and despair, which is the most dangerous thing for the people and the most grateful thing for our friends. Let us be patient, united, and united! As Taras Grigorovich said, “the shame of an old hour will come and the glory of Ukraine will come to life!” Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u106	The word is given to the national deputy of Kzarkov, a faction of Communists. Get ready for Hani Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u107	Dear people of Ukraine! Respectable people's choices. People's deputies! I wanted to highlight two points concerning the activities of the Minister of Education of Ukraine. In fact, today the Minister has introduced a system of genocide with regard to the entire education system, dragging us into the Bologna Process, but in parallel with this European cynicism, as they call it, there is today a massive closure of schools in the countryside. One example is the village of the Dolinsky Ananyev district of the Odessa region. The village is 18 kilometers long, and its width is 5 kilometers. In Soviet times, six schools were built for children, all schools were working, buses were taking children to school. Today they want to close the last school in the center, and by mile, our children are now forced to walk six kilometres in the cold, painting, on the road to get the knowledge guaranteed by the Constitution. And instead of having this ominous system, which the Ministry of Education is now planting on the Bending of Society, by renouncing the falsification of history, when today in our history textbooks instead of the Great Homeland War, "the war of the Russian-German people against the Ukrainian people," we want them to think about what they're doing today, what they're doing today, what they're low today, and even for the President, with a 3% rating, you're not voting with your families, and you're not taking a percentage even for the Kiev Council. I therefore call today on the Ministry of Education and the Cabinet of Ministers to review the closure plan, and to date it is only in its plan for Odessa to close over 18 schools in the village. And I hope that this power has gone so far as to close accounts with our children that they have already written themselves a black page in their history. And I request that I consider the request to the Minister of Education and to the Prime Minister of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask more of you. You know, in Ukraine, the Great fast, and you have to respect each other. I give the word to Annie Herman, Party of Regions. We're ready, Caplienne.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u109	Not only the Great fast, but today it is Friday. I would like to welcome all the women of Ukraine with the upcoming holiday, and also with tomorrow – the birthday of Taras Grigorovovich Shevchenk. I would like to say that this week we have managed to do a few good things with the coalition members. In particular, together with Deputy Suškević of the “Julia Tymoshenko Block” we have achieved that we have cancelled the decision that we wanted to close in Lviv, in the Lviv region of Krakow in the Yavorów region, to close the school for children with disabilities. With Deputy Suškević, we did not allow this to happen, and I hope that we will not share the factions for good. We, too, have also managed to get out of it with the deputies from the Yulia Tymoshenko Block. That the government resumes the free supply of coal for mining widows. And I also hope that the government will listen to the Party of Regions and in order to restore benefits to the children of mining widows who were promised that their children would learn for free. I also hope that Deputy Prime Minister Turchinov will listen to my request, which I passed on to him on the “5 channel”, and the Dudic family from the village of the Girsky Mikolai district of Lviv Region will finally receive the money that the state owes to this family for having suffered from the flood and still must live in an unrepaired house, without conditions, without gas, without light, with rotten walls. Because Julia Volodymyrna came to the village of Mount Mikolaiiv region, she promised that everyone would receive the money, of course, people did not get it, and this family was particularly poor, which everyone, who was promised, and the Turk himself promised me, and he did nothing for them. I hope the Vice Prime Minister will remember his promise, his word. So our work this week in this Parliament was productive and it was responding to, you know, the needs of these days, this, indeed, first week of the great post, we were trying to work together. And I think we'll work together. In this regard, a colleague is honored that Chevchenko is not really to blame between the President and the Prime Minister. Because Shevchenko, I don't know if it has anything to do with the President, but he has absolutely nothing to do with Julius Volodymyrina. So do not touch Shewchenk where there is a conflict between the superior authorities. Chewchenkott has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u110	Thank you. The word is given to the People's Deputy Kapleyenko, the House of Yulia Timoshenko. Prepare John the Rabbit, Our Ukraine. Guys, I'm calling in advance so you can move faster.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u111	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I would like to raise today a question that concerns the activities of collectors. This problem, which has fallen on our country's citizens at the end of last year and has been taking turns, in fact, taking on the face of the criminal times 91-98 years, when we remember that the liberation in Ukraine reached its peak when every Ukrainian citizen did not feel protected under any circumstances, and the state could not give its hand to help. I would like to remind you that, in view of the economic crisis and the steady increase in unemployment in Ukraine, more and more people are unable to repay their loans, to borrow from commercial banks for certain needs, such as car purchases, housing, improved business conditions, innovative projects, and so forth. In view of this, financial institutions are increasingly seeking to impose financial obligations on the population through so - called collectorship companies. Collective companies, in fact, don't have any legal basis at this time, and they're not actually supported by one or the other laws, but they're powerful enough to influence citizens' consciousness, and they're reminded that the return of credit can be made compulsory by the use of physical force. I'd like to ask, first of all, are the legal actions of collector companies, if there are no legislative provisions so far? And secondly, do banks and, accordingly, banks bear full responsibility for these actions, article 32 of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to which the banking secret cannot be disclosed without the permission of a citizen or in the economic interests of Ukraine, or in the protection of human rights? I would also like to remind you that, under other circumstances, such activity violates the rights to legitimately protected citizens' interests and may qualify as a crime, provided for, inter alia, by article 182 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which provides for responsibility for violating privacy and article 189 of the requirement, as well as article 355 of the Code of Criminal Procedure for the enforcement or non-compliance of civil liability. I'd like to remind you of one more question. How strange, then, is it that, according to January statistics, this month, the volume of problem loans has increased by 4.9 percent, accounting for 0.8 billion dollars and the total capital of statutory commercial banks has increased by 6 percent, actually by 5 billion dollars? Please tell me, don't you think this money is going from one wallet to another? And I would like to say that by actually giving away the free money that she got in 2005-2007, the banks got the profits at that time immediately. Today, however, defenseless populations are being bullied.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u112	Thank you. I would like to invite the national deputy of the People's John the Rabbit. Prepare Peter Simonenko. Dear colleagues, Ivan Alexandrovich, I also ask, because as many of us as we have here, your colleagues from “Our Ukraine” all offered, I would ask in three minutes, because Karmazin is waiting for others. Who gave it to you? Ivan Alexandrovich. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u113	Dear National Deputies! John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. I'd like to draw your attention to a few problems. The first problem is the work of the Supreme Council. There is no efficiency when the Supreme Council is working on a reduced procedure. Bills are not discussed, they are accepted in haste, and as a result, we are not simply passing low-level legislation, but we are making our citizens' situation worse, especially in times of crisis. I cite one example. On December 25, last year, changes to the law on compulsory state social insurance in case of unemployment were voted, this article 23, if a person agrees to be released today, he can count on State aid, not on the ninth day as before, but on 91 days. In fact, a whole quarter of a person is out of work and without help. It's nothing less than a mere violation of the Constitution of Ukraine, and that's why we need to fix this situation as we are now correcting the situation of private agriculture and the employment of people where farmers today with 5 or 6 hundred have no right to enter the labour market, they have no right to social assistance. The second question I want to draw your attention to is that the Supreme Council today is demonstrating a completely anti-constitutional position. In the way that the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Ogrezko, was removed, it is said that the anti - Ukrainian forces in the Supreme Council have united and disregarded national interests, disregarding the interests of the State, but acting in Moscow’s interests. And this is a Moscow order that, unfortunately, has been executed by factions that are part of the coalition. So we're sorry that it was by the vote of 49 deputies that this happened. And the last. The last is the election in Ternopolis. This once again tells us that if there's no need to vote for the Ogrek's release, I see our patriotic coalition no longer needs patriotic votes in Ternopol. That's why these megablocks and BUT, and the Party of Regions and others were afraid of the results of the election, and they ran out of the election, spending a lot of money because they knew they were going to win national democratic forces. This worries us deeply and deeply. We've put forward a draft resolution from the Ukrainian People's Party on hearing parliamentary hearings, on organising parliamentary hearings on legal successions regarding the debt and assets of the RSR Union. We come from the fact that we finally have to normalize our relationship with Russia, which means that if they go to us with European prices, we have to go out in the same way to solve those problems by zero, at the location of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine and many other things. So I ask our colleagues not to turn away from these issues, but to consider and finally to have those.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u114	Thank you. The word is given to Peter Simonenko, a faction of Communists. Prepare the Pavlovenko People’s Deputy Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u115	Respectable voters! First of all, I approach the owner of cars and carriers. By meeting your fair demands, we, the Communist faction, have introduced a bill that required a change to the tariff that relates to the transport charge. And here I would very much like to ask you not to listen to the political shamans who claim to have fought the transport charge against owners of so-called, wealthy cars. What they did, the orange team. In December, they amended the Act on Excise Congregation Issues and changed the scale of taxation by this tariff charge depending on the size of the engine. Let me give you some specific examples. In the law that had previously been in force was a scale of 1,800 cubic centimeters, up to 2,000 and a half, they made the first scale of 1800-2200. And so here in this part, very many of the owners who have 2.4 litre engines have been punished, and what is expressed here. Under the old law, they would pay for a hundred cubic centimetres of bracelets, and then what the orange team introduced, Teryohin represented 75 bracelets, i.e. 7.5 times more had to pay. The old car that we used for eight years, we have 12 bracelets per 100 cubic centimetres, and here we have 90 bracelets to pay for 100 cubic centimetres. Next. A car that operates and operates for more than 8 years under the previous 500-cubic-centimeter bill, namely, an orange team offered 750 bracelets per thousand cubic centimetres. Thus, they wanted to close the gap in the budget by exploiting this topic and closing the gap in the budget of one and a half billion grevens. We have denounced them and made proposals that have returned the rules of the old law and thus protected the majority and our citizens from the arbitrary use of large capital to fill or fill the budget. We also supported our colleagues'proposal and made changes that bring about a 50 per cent reduction in the transport charges for those car owners who have been redesigned or initially equipped with gas. It's also positive. I believe that all that has to do with the political calling of some people's deputies today just shows that they did not want to protect your interests. The Communist faction was in principle far behind the interests of car owners and carriers to make them pay considerably less.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u116	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u117	paid as before before before the change. And to the end. From the faction of Communists I sincerely welcome you, dear women, good and happy in front of this holiday, smiles and joys, warmth and health to your loved ones and warmth in your apartments. Always let a smile shine on your face, and your eyes will shine with joy. With a holiday, dear women!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u118	Thank you. National Deputy Pavlovenko, Party of Regions. Prepare Kamchatny, BUT.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u119	Dear Head, dear colleagues! I think it is necessary to draw your attention to the unprecedented fact that has once proved that neglect of constitutional rights and human freedom has become a system in the work of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. On February 27, 2009, a series of internet videos and newspapers spread, according to the team, absolutely false information provided by the Ministry, in which co-workers of the Secretariat of the Central Council for Human Rights were accused of poaching in the territory of the 30km Blackwater Zone. As established, during the rapid investigation of the Ukrainian Ombudsman with the departure of a special working group to the site of an extraordinary event, as well as further examination by the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine: all three persons detained for poaching have no bearing on the Secretariat of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights. In fact, one of the detainees is a colonel of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine and two are members of the public organization Kazača net “Wolk” of Kyiv County. The head of this organization, Yuri Klimenko, immediately apologized to Nina Karpachov and her team leader, and appealed to the police to challenge the media with slanderous information that had caused moral harm to the constitutional body. It has also been established that since the beginning of the management of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Kyiv region, it has been known that those detained in the zone have never worked in the Secretariat of the Commissioner for Human Rights. Nina Ivanovna Karpachev immediately, on the same day, on February 27, addressed the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Yuri Lucenka, who demanded that false information be corrected without delay, apologize publicly to the Commissioner for Human Rights, the coworkers of the Secretariat for moral damage. Until now, however, no answer has been given to the Commissioner for Human Rights. Instead, first of all, the Ukrainian Public Communications Centre in the Kyiv region’s Ministry of Public Relations, there is a widespread media coverage of brutal information that degrades the honour and dignity of the constitutional body of parliamentary control. And that's not surprising. For it was found that the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Yuri Lucenko, had commissioned investigations into non-professional actions by the same officials, namely: Head of the Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Kyiv region of Yalovenka, who gave oral direction to the manager. Mikoli Zuković, social liaison center The authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights was forced to appeal to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine again on March 5. I'm lying. I will point out that in this case it is the honor and dignity of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And therefore, it will be right, if you are, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u120	Complete, please, because I see that your text is long. 30 seconds, tops, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u121	I'm asking you a question. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u122	Thank you. The word is given to Kamchatny, a national deputy. To prepare Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u123	Dear voters! In our activities, we often receive letters from our citizens, from our constituents. With one letter that especially struck me, I want to meet and raise this problem today. I will read the language in which the electorate spoke. This was written to me by members of the rehab team at the Kharkiv Regional Hospital. As they write: “With a desperate cry for help. Our unit, which is a unique healing facility and a pearl among the city and district health centres, is expected to be closed and the building redesigned and remodeled.” Then they write about their experience, how many people have been cured, what methods. And, indeed, it is, because it is, indeed, the pearl of our harpian medicine. I know the situation in this facility very well. And indeed, at the last session of the District Council there was an attempt by the representative of the Party of the Regions to throw in a decree on the transfer of this department, this room to another property. I want to assure you today, my distinguished constituencies from the district hospital, from the district rehabilitation department, the reverend Natalia Viacheslavina, who signed with others that we, the deputy of the Yulia Timoshenko, will stand in defense of your department and will not allow it to be alienated. And so today, taking this opportunity, I wish you the best in your noble activities and I congratulate you on March 8th. And the second problem I'd like to raise today. I want to remind you that on February 10th, the President of Ukraine issued a decree on the issue of the Ukrainian Academy of Law, by which he is actually ruining the Ukrainian Academy of Law. In particular, this act of the Head of State envisions the establishment of regional centres of the Academy in various cities of Ukraine; the establishment of a new branch in the academy, although it already exists within the Academy; the transfer of the actual legal capital from the city of Kharkiv to the city of Kiev, that is, the headquarters of the Academy of Legal Sciences. It is particularly incomprehensible – it is the appointment of the President of Ukraine by his decree of academics, that is, the assignment of the title of academics not by general congregations, as it has been throughout the world, as has been done throughout the history of our Ukrainian, Soviet, and its decree. Such actions by the Heads of State have raised serious concerns from the scientific community. I know that many letters are addressed to him, a letter from the Academy of Legal Sciences is being prepared. And we, as representatives of all factions, were introduced yesterday by a draft decree to refer to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But I would like to address the President of Ukraine: “Do not make it a matter for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to address it, please stop this decree, keep your name before the lawyers, against the lawyers of Ukraine, because you will raise against you the entire legal community of Ukraine. I'm asking you to cancel this order! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u124	I invite you to the words of the People's Deputy Karmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Prepare the People's Deputies of Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u125	Honorable National Deputies, reverend Ukrainian people! First of all, I would like to greet women: good things to them, prosperity, health to them, their children, their families, may the Lord help you and our Ukraine. And I would like to ask you, Your Honor Nikola Volodymyrovich, for what I am about to say, to give a protocol commission to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, to the Prosecutor's Office and to the Security Service, which until now has not existed, I don't know, maybe after today's appointment, something will change, about what's happening today in the centre of Kiev, in Khrestatika, and in the Kiev City Council, the Kiev City Ministry. That's what I'm getting. According to the Kyiv City Health Workers ’ Association, the average debt of one Kiev City Clinic is about one million dollars, the fact that people have not paid their salaries for three months, the fact that they have been forced to support the Kiev mayor at the time they were to provide medical services. And that was 300 people from the hospital. I ask Mr. Devajchenka: do you have any service at all? What do you get all the money for? Darmoids! I'm asking the Attorney General what's going on with you? Did you know that? Why is there no action taken toward the head of the Governing Body, who is a civil servant? It's Mr. Kachurov who took the people to put them in a suit, they say, put them in a contract of employment with everyone. I'm talking to the Ministry of Internal Affairs: what do you think when those people who rose up formed the National Committee for Business Rescue, and yesterday, March 5th morning, they were attacked by about 20 people on a tent site by the Kyiv administration? In the course of the attack, tents were damaged, all the fortifications were circumcised, the heaps were made, and entrepreneurs were threatened with physical destruction. This is done in the middle of Kiev. These men saw the attackers coming out of the walls of the Kyiv city government. But what's interesting is that at 10 a.m., three of them were detained as employees of the security firm Tornado, which is related to one deputy of the city's Kiev head. At 10 a.m., the city's attorney's office in 10 stores is conducting checks on Pietro the Great, to which the founder of this National Business Rescue Committee Landar relates. What is this doing in our center of Ukraine?Oh, my God! I'd like to find out and see how. They gave me these shameful demands that give me the third number in one day to give me bank data, everything, everything to people. I'm asking you to take action, give an order. I look forward to a just decision from the General.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u126	Thank you. The word is given by Popescu’s National Deputy, Party of Regions. Prepare Kseniya Lapini, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u127	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Masterful colleagues! The great electorate! People from different backgrounds are addressing us as national deputies. And today I would like to draw attention to a letter that has just arrived. And he came from the city. In the region of Chernobyl, by the citizens of Ivanescu, They raise the question that 40-45 years they worked, saved money, and put it on the books of the USSR Savings. Then, when the Soviet Union broke down, they could not afford it. But already in the Ukrainian independent state, in 92-93, they re-worked and re-trusted the state and put their money into banks. And once again, they won't be able to get that money now that they need it when they're retired. In addition, many pensioners had the funds they had put into commercial banks today, and again this problem arises. It's parallel. For example, he writes a citizen. and Ivanescu. “We have a home in the village — the original language — inherited from our parents, an old house. At the time it was not necessary, nor was it necessary to issue “a certificate of ownership” to the house and a number of other documents. Today, in order to privatize the 10 hundred near the farm house, it is necessary to have a certificate of ownership, a house, not enough will, but a notary to register. There is a great deal to pay for the Bureau of Technical Inventory and then to submit the documents to the court. And we have to pay. It's all worth more than the house itself. And on this issue many citizens are suffering.” I'm not going to quote this letter anymore, but I want to point out that, unfortunately, instead of helping these people, in the new bills that they're proposing to us, which are aimed at anti-crisis actions, for example, they're offering us the Real Estate Tax Act, which unfortunately is not meant to support ordinary people. Why? Because they're liberated up to 150 square meters. Which of the poor people has 150 square meters of apartment? Houses, buildings up to 300 square feet [300 sq m], are being liberated. Who has a house 300 square meters in the village? And at the same time, taxes will be paid by those who have 100 square meters of farm buildings -- that's both barns and barns, and... and everything. The people in the village won't be able to pay for it. So we're going to the coalition, the government, in preparing anti-crisis laws, to help defenseless populations and to think about what will be the real result of what we're proposing today. And since we are ahead of March 8, I wish all women happiness, health, understanding, good. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u128	Thank you. I give the word to Kseniya Lapini, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Get ready for Argentinus. And, Mrs. Kseniya, just a second, if I may, I wanted to give a protocol commission to prepare an address to the B.S.A. and the D.A.'s office on the issues that were raised by National Deputy Carmazin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u129	Thank you. Xena Lapina, group “For Ukraine! ” Dear listeners and viewers! First of all, I would like to say hello to not only women with an upcoming holiday, but I would like to congratulate Ukrainian entrepreneurs on the fact that on Tuesday the Supreme Council was able to prevent a terrible threat. All the factions joined together in the hall and voted in favour of my amendment, which we prohibited from double taxing entrepreneurs because of the increase in the pension contribution. This is positive and good news, which shows that at times common sense prevails in the Supreme Council. However, the positive news is, unfortunately, coming to an end. I would like to highlight the problems that entrepreneurs may face in the near future in connection with legislative initiatives. In the last week, unfortunately, colleagues from the Yulia Block Timoshenko have registered four bills, which, in fact, if, for God's sake, are accepted, can lead to three times, five times the tax burden on small businesses. First of all, it's a bill on, so-called, a simplified system of taxation, accounting and reporting, which colleagues from BUIT propose three times to raise the single tax rate. This is unacceptable, no calculations, no answers, why not in threes, why not in fives, why not in twos, why not in ones. Second, it's a bill that proposes to raise, once again, three times the stakes of a trading patent. Both the third and fourth bills offer ten times more fines, according to the Administrative Code and the Criminal Code, so-called administrative fines. Who are they going to fall for? And I'll tell you, for example, all of us know that unfortunately, the spots that we all see on Kiev streets don't have well-formed documents on the ground. This is not the fault of small entrepreneurs. For many years the Kyiv authorities have not been able to properly form this land. And today it is almost impossible because BUT with “Regions” passed a law that only on a competitive basis can a small piece of land be rented under its own label. Thus, it is suggested that fines be increased 10 times for such an exercise. What's the name? Unlawful occupation of the land. In fact, this can lead to very serious consequences. At the same time, I want to point out that the draft law on the moratorium on checks is being passed with great difficulty. Here, my colleagues even asked me for a protocol commission to say that activists were being attacked by various authorities. Friends, it's not just here, all over Ukraine, the controlling organs have broken off the rod, they're not paying attention to the laws, and they're only checking for one purpose, taking more bribes. Unfortunately, today, the only purpose of the tests is to take something extra into the budget, even though it's inappropriate and illegal, and take large bribes because they want to live. the inspection body. And as soon as there was a question about.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u130	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u131	on the draft Law on the Moratorium, which was introduced by our group, the controlling authorities came in large numbers and put sticks in the wheels so that the law would not pass. I ask you, distinguished entrepreneurs, to pay attention to all of this and help us unite the hall around the bill of moratorium on small business subjects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u132	Thank you. And I'm also asking you to prepare such a commission with regard to the relevant public authorities that violate the rules of the moratorium decision. I give the word of Stanislav Arzvetin, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u133	Stanislaw Arzhevtin, a deputy group “For Ukraine!” Referral of the Cossack Organizations of Ukraine to the Head of the Supreme Council and to the National Deputies of Ukraine on the return to review and vote on the draft Ukrainian Law on the Principles for the Reconstruction and Development of Ukrainian Cossacks, Cossack Organizations and Their Unions. Dear National MPs, my presentation today involves numerous appeals to me by Cossacks and Cossacks. The results of the vote on the draft Law on Principles for Restoration and Development of Ukrainian Cossacks, which was discussed in the Supreme Council in February this year, which focused on the implementation of the potential of Cossacks for the consolidation of society and the consolidation of the resources of the State and Cossacks to restore the historical traditions of the Ukrainian people, the involvement of Cossacks in the protection of public order, the state border of Ukraine, the cultural heritage, the physical and sporting work, and, above all, the military and patriotic education of young people and children. This was the direction that defined the modern role of Ukrainian Cossacks and their place in society, and these were the directions that were put into the concept of the development of Cossacks, as approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The need to adopt such a law is confirmed by the findings of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, which are based on the fact that the specialities of Cossack organizations by their nature differ from their usual associations of citizens. Minust insists that it is only. emphasizes that only through the adoption of a special law should the rights, duties and authorizations of Cossack organizations be clearly defined, as well as mandatory accountability in certain areas of activity to law enforcement authorities, the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, and other authorities of the State’s executive branch. Cossacking is our national Ukrainian phenomenon in the treasury of world history. In addition, the laws on goating have long been in force in neighbouring Russian states of the Transnistrian Republic of Moldova, and there is no such law in Ukraine. The Cossacks thank the National Deputies for their active support of the bill, which received 219 votes in the session hall. Unfortunately, other political forces did not vote for the bill. In the meantime, I would like to point out that Cossacks from all parts of Ukraine were involved in the drafting of this bill. Among the people of the East and South Ukraine, whose interests are represented by the Party of Regions, thousands of Cossacks, Cossacks of Crimea, Luhansk, Donetsk, Kharkiv, Zaporez region also participated in the drafting of this law and waited for our support. We national MPs have no other way of going back to voting on this bill, considering that it has been considered at an extra time, and some deputies have already worked on committees and have failed to exercise their right by voting. Please consider my speech an official address to all the factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and I especially address the Party of the Regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u134	I give the word to Viacheslav Kowalya, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Prepare Andreya Papuya.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u135	Viacheslav Koval, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense". At the beginning of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the sixth call by the President of Ukraine was introduced a bill, a law on the legal status of participants in the struggle for Ukraine's independence in the 20th, 1990s. The adoption of this law has an extremely important social, political and moral significance for the restoration of historical and social justice. The point is that the legal status of the parties to the struggle for Ukraine’s independence has not yet been defined at the legislative level. Ukraine's Act on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection, does not extend to members of the Ukrainian rebel army who fought for Ukraine in the years of World War II against Fascism and since 1944 fought against the totalitarian regime. Nor does the existing law extend to those who participated in the political, guerrilla, underground struggle, the independence of Ukraine in the 20s-90s, as part of the Ukrainian military organization WO, the Carpathian Sichi, the organization of Ukrainian nationalists, the Ukrainian main liberation council, as well as to those who assisted the activities of the designated organizations. It requires the identification and status of persons involved in other organizations or in individual activities aimed at gaining Ukraine’s independence. It is worth noting that the need for a settlement of this issue is contained in the agreement on the creation of coalition, national development, stability and order between the factions “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko” and “Block of Lithuania”. On behalf of the People's Movement of Ukraine, we call on all parliamentarians to consider urgently the bill on the legal status of participants in the struggle for Ukraine's independence in the 20th and 90th centuries, which will help to consolidate the principles of historical and social justice in Ukraine and put a stop to the long-term debate on individual painful pages of Ukrainian history. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u136	Thank you. I give my word to Andria Parubai, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Get ready for Lily Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u137	First of all, I would like to welcome Valentina Nativajchenko as head of the Ukrainian Security Service today. I would like to say that this position for Ukraine today is a sign, because for the Ukrainian State, which has for many decades and centuries had no statehood, the activity of this service is extremely relevant today. And today we have mentioned in the professional quality room Valentina Natvajchenko, what efforts he is making to reform the Ukrainian National Security Service by following the example of European and Natovajn standards. But today little has been said that at the very time that Valentin Nastawajchenko headed the Ukrainian Security Service, we were able to get a number of classified data before that data on the history of Ukraine regarding the activities of the UPA in the '40s and '50s in relation to famine. And today, when we celebrate, and this was yesterday March 5th, the anniversary of the death of the chief commander of the UPA, Roman Suhevich, in the village of Bilogorch near Lvov, we have an important restoration of this historic memory, because today we do not know where the body of the chief commander of the UPA, Roman Suhevich, was buried. To this day, we don't know where the last UPA commander's grave is. But together with that week, we have witnessed other human resources decisions that are increasing anxiety today, perhaps in the hearts of many Ukrainians. This is about the removal of Mr. Ogryzka from his post as Minister of Foreign Affairs. And what is most striking is the fact and cynicism with which the decision was made. And it was very clear that the discussion of the question of the Snack was not professional, but purely political. And it is most unfortunate that this occurred after an information attack with Russia after Ogryzko had the courage as a Ukrainian patriot to make a remark to the Russian Federation in the person of her Ambassador Blackomirdin regarding his hammocks, unacceptable statements and regarding Ukraine, and regarding Ukrainian authority. And it's very sad when Ukraine's highest legislative body becomes a branch of the Russian Duma, which is beginning to stand up for not the national interests of Ukraine, but the enormities of our northern neighbour. Unfortunately, in this aspect, we have again seen that there is much more in common between the Communist Party of Ukraine, between the Party of the Regions and the Yulia Block of Timoshenko than there are differences. Because it was the political forces that removed the Ogreco from office. The parliamentary group “for Ukraine!” has consistently advocated Ukrainian national interests in Parliament. We will continue to stand up for these interests and tell people the truth about what is happening in the sessional Hall of the Supreme Council. I am convinced that the parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” continues.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u138	Thank you. Lilia Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense." And at the end of the “Victory” right of reply is John the Rabbit, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u139	Lilia Grigorovich, MP “For Ukraine!” People are good! Dear Ukrainians! I don't know if there's a broadcast right now, but I want to make a note to the chairman that, unfortunately, under the law, the recording is broken today, they're giving every sister a cheese. So this is kind of a justice that is worth fighting for in this room alone. And now, essentially. Dear friends, this week we have witnessed many events when we need to fight from the parliamentary rostrum and where our national mechanisms are. When national interests were cast as a result of the vote on September 2nd, so again on March 3rd, the Party of the Regions and the BUTT MP group “For Ukraine” knew the essence of this so-called coalition and in fact we warned that national interests were unknown. Today, we are known by others, private, corrupt, corporate, but not national. This first week of the Great Post doesn't want to talk about the sad, I'd like to talk about the more general, because the celebration of women, the celebration of Kobzar, who takes the child by the hand and leads him into this world, is of course a mother. I'm dating. I can't explain to young people why hundreds of thousands of people can't get an act on the ground, why when they come to local receptions at district councils, which, in protesting by the district attorney's office, have raised material security, administrations, they can't find the truth, why the answer is very simple. Today, the Ukrainian Parliament has become tragic for Ukraine most, most of the two megaprojects of the Party of Regions and BUIT. They came to Parliament, having experienced an era of primary capital stockpiling because they became rich by bribery, fraud, raiding. Regrettably, these methods have now been the foundation of national Ukrainian management. Whom we represent here today is ourselves, those who are left behind in Ukraine literally a few decades and, my dears, if these methods are not removed from Ukrainian politics, open lists and the will of an open elector who does not allow you to keep ten skins from you, he asks: “Give me Greeks or give me a thousand.” I mean, a free, free voter who doesn't believe that a professional army can be built in a year, because it's a big lie that doesn't believe that we're going to choose a person and it's going to make everyone forever young, and I want to say that our age is going to be called an age of great confusion. I think if Kobzar lived today, these two clans would pay to make his painting laugh like beekeeping. Therefore, my dear voters, I very much ask you to be considerate and wise. A free voter and free elections is a rescue for Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u140	I give the people's deputy John the Hare a word for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u141	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear National Deputies, as a national deputy and deputy head of the Committee on Environmental Affairs, are called upon to take decisive action to protect the environment. In particular, the general public is concerned that the process of creating a whole range of national natural parks has stopped. On February 11, the Cabinet of Ministers had to take a decision and hand over the draft decree to President Viktor Yushchenk of Ukraine to create National Natural Parks. “work title, “Granite Steps of Pobužja”, “Wizarded Land” and “Gethmanski”. But the Cabinet of Ministers rejected, postponed the decision for an indefinite period of time. The reason is ridiculous. The government did not like the fact that the national natural park was created by the president, not by the government. That's why we decided to go back to this issue after the changes were made to the Nature Fund Act, where national parks are expected to form a government. In practice, this means that consent to land tenure will lose legal power and will go around again. What we can't agree with. Following the electoral orders yesterday, I did.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u142	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u143	I'm done. Thank you. Following the electoral orders, yesterday I asked Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko to correct the mistake. The Prime Minister promised at the next meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers to decide on the creation of these national natural parks. Here I want to contact the chairman, Mr. Mikolo, that this is exactly one of the seven natural wonders, that is, this project that you've been looking after, "The Granitary Steppe of Pobrzeż". And I think we should do our best together. For this park to be created so that we can save for our children, grandchildren, descendants unique in the natural historical geological in any respect of the territory in the north-west, in the north-west of the Mikolai region. It should be remembered that there may already be three generations of people fighting for the creation of this park, many have done. Because it exists today in the status of the regional landscape park “Granite Steppe Pobužja”. So I am addressing you in the same way that we can multiply or unite our efforts. And for the next week, you can report to the public that the Ukrainian authorities understand that we are going to the era of natural nationalism when the natural resource base determines the perspective of the Ukrainian nation. Because it is natural resources that will be the limit to the development of civilization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-06-m0.u144	Thank you. I think that ours and the Committee on Ecology, and I, as the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council and head of the "Seven Wonders of Nature", will address the government. I hope the government will support this noble cause, and the President will issue a decree. Dear National Deputies! The statement has been completed. Let me remind you that according to our calendar plan, the holding of the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call from March 10 to 13, the national deputies work in committees and factions. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that two parliamentary hearings will take place on March 11th in the Plenary Hall. At 10 a.m. parliamentary hearings on "Contemporary state and prospects for agriculture and the food industry of Ukraine". At 3 p.m. parliamentary hearings on "On the organization and holding of the final part of the European Championship 2012 from football in Ukraine". Finally, I would like to welcome everyone once again with the exciting events coming, March 8th, the day of love, March 9th, 195 years since Taras Shevchenk was born. So I wanted us to celebrate these festivals at the right level. So the next plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday, March 17th at 10 a.m. And the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Good luck.
