ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:32]] Cards were registered in the 422 national deputies in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleagues Bebelzenko Valerija Fedorovich, Karakaya Yuri Vasilovich and Černomorova Alexandra Mikolaiovich. [[Applause]] We welcome them and wish them good health, good success. Allow me to provide you with information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at plenary meetings on May 19, 2009, which will address 26 issues of the agenda. As a result of the review, four laws and six decrees were passed, nine bills were adopted on a basis, one bill was sent for re-reading, one bill was returned to the committee for re-reading, and eight bills were rejected. Dear national deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Wednesday, we have 30 minutes to make speeches by national deputies with proposals, announcements, messages. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speech. It's a recording. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the performances. National Deputy Victor Terrence, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Please. Who are you giving it to? Mikola Tomenko, please. Get ready for Catherine Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to the latest political developments in the country and to say that we see at least two great positives, the situation that took place today in President Viktor Yushchenk's team. The first great benefit is that after the resignation of President Viktor Baloga's head of the Secretariat, we hope that the degree of conflict and confrontation of the executive system will decrease significantly if it does not disappear altogether. The paradox or feature of our lives is that as soon as the conflicts in the executive power are reduced, once the level of charges against the media on air or at the President's meetings disappears, social and economic stability and peace automatically disappears. Look, the last few months have been reduced by such a violent political battle on television and at various meetings, and we've actually seen some quasi-stabilisation that allows us to talk about the government and the Supreme Council trying to influence the situation and solve it positively. The second good news or the second problem we hope for is that Victor Baloga has seen a very great evil in godmother and corruption, and we are convinced that this is a very serious and influential policy, so from now on we hope that tens or hundreds of relatives of Victor Baloga, godparents baptized will write statements and leave the responsible positions they have held for the past two years. We hope that all of them will give the honors of the deserved, national, Orders that they received while Victor Ivanovich was in office. I think thousands of hectares of land will be returned in one Kyiv region because Victor Ivanovich is definitely against corruption and anti-cummism. I think that the number of people assigned by Viktor Ivanovich from Zacarpathia, well, will be reduced to order because I have traveled all over Ukraine and have met the heads of the Mukachevo administrations everywhere. It seems that this is a fantastically large city that is humanizing the entire country. We are confident that the new Head of the President's Secretariat will make the Secretariat a powerful intellectual, creative team, as we say in the session room, an office, not an authority that has been illegally addressing any of the issues. And by creating a creative, tolerant office, Victor Yushchenko, as president of Ukraine, will complete his political career on an optimistic note. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, Catherine Vaszczuk has the floor. And the right to speak is also passed on by Sergey Greenewecki. It's a total of six minutes. Prepare the National Deputy of Oliynik.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u4	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues and Voters! On behalf of the Lithuanian Block faction, I would like to draw your attention to the urgent problems facing the Ukrainian village today and their solutions are unduly prolonged. First, because of the financial crisis and the blocking by banks of credit policy in Ukraine, the Ukrainian village received only 30 percent of the credit resources that were available last year, a year later. And if you look at the composition of those credits, most of them got big corporations, big processing companies. And maybe 10 to 12 percent is just those who plow the earth and sow. This means that our peasants today have no circulation costs, they cannot feed the crops on time, and they cannot process them from pests and diseases. This puts at risk the harvest that Ukraine needs in this difficult year and on which great hopes lie. All of this also inhibits and inhibits the development of animal agriculture, technological rearms, people cannot buy technology, because the three - percent recovery program with a acquired technique has ended and has not been restored. Today, protesting, they stand all over Kiev. The substantial decline in government support that we saw when we accepted the budget, and it's not even being done in full, is being done in half. All of this has led to a massive reduction in livestock. During these months, this year, the cattle’s head fell by 7.5 percent. All of this has led to a decrease in the sale and production of milk and meat to the State. We cannot continue to watch as agriculture no longer simply survives, but enters the stagnation stage. Therefore, MPs from the Lithuanian Blok faction are calling on the government to be more responsible for the agricultural sector. First of all, to execute that budget in full size, especially in the field of animal and plant life, or secondly, to predict those promised billions, somewhere 2.5, someone said three or four, from the Stabilisation Fund, which is formed from getting the second tranche from the IMF. And don't twist the hands of peasants with constant checks from the CIA, from various tax authorities looking for ways to find moments to avoid funding from the State Budget. Good work was done by the Agrarian Foundation in support of the Ukrainian grain market. Many contracts have been concluded with peasants. Farmers in the market as well as insurance payments paid a lot of money. And for a month now, no payments have been made from the Agrarian Fund. And that could give the villagers the necessary funds that they are waiting for today. Why don't they go? It seemed to someone in Kabmin that it was better to support the grain traders today. Okay. We'll support the grain traders. But what they will sell if nothing grows up in the field, for already difficult weather conditions do not allow for the best development in the countryside. We demand that payment be made immediately through the Agrarian Fund for all the forward contracts and contracts that provide for the purchase of grain available to farmers today. A lot of debt to the village when the tax returns on the added value. I want to say that only Volin, where there's almost 20 billion dollars in taxes owed to peasants, where there's not enough money to pay since 2007. I also want to pay attention on behalf of all the fellow national MPs who represent many areas, that we also have a debt to the village. Law 4381, which will address the issue of donor raw materials. And I ask the Head to put this law to the vote. And it's over. So I'm going to talk to Kabmin about asking him to end up dealing with the land of government property, and looking at the prices that peasants require for rent contracts, that's about 200 dollars, and identifying the livestock.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u5	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u6	From 48 to 60 bucks. For example, in Volina it will also cost about 20 million people to pay for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u7	Thank you, Catherine Timothy. Viacheslav Oilynik faction of the Yulia Timoshenko Block. National MP Sobolev, right? Please. Instead of the Oily.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u8	Thank you. Dear Head! Dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners. I think that the second week at the end of the Supreme Council's work, allowing for the timely start of consideration of those issues that are urgent, is how many weeks they have been delayed in their consideration. But before that, I would like to give a brief description of what is happening today in the budget, in the Pension Fund, and in the key payments that the state is obliged to pay to Ukraine’s citizens. According to our faction, the processes of the last month confirm that despite all the dire consequences of the world’s financial economic crisis, the State is making a key commitment to its citizens. This is a timely payment of pensions, it's a timely payment of salaries to state-owned enterprises. Moreover, in fact the last two months have shown the first trend in the last three years, when the debt at state-owned enterprises began to shrink in real terms, and in fact over the last two months, despite the financial and economic crisis that has undoubtedly affected Ukraine, this debt has declined almost twice. That's because at the same time, our neighbors are going to have to raise debt first and foremost in the public sector, to raise debts under the Pension Fund. Ukraine, in fact, is in the unique capacity it has under the budget, which is a budget of limitations, which is the economic budget, fulfilling all its obligations. You can no doubt criticize the government for any economic decision, but the best indicator of every government is actually an indicator of how citizens are owed. And in this respect, our faction believes that these commitments are made by 100 percent, and this can be confirmed by any pensioner who, at the right time, receives a pension day after day, any employee of a state-owned enterprise, but it's not just a major one. In fact, today's budget implementation, the hard budget, has become a key topic at any government meeting, and we see that today's most difficult tasks, which were set before tax, are being carried out in front of customs by a hundred percent. Moreover, the factor of the first quarter shows that these performances give us reason to believe that this will continue. Finally, in the world of political events and resignations, the head of the Secretariat cannot help but wonder the reason for this resignation. I understand that a person who has worked with the President for three years is better at assessing, but isn't that cynicism and the limit of cynicism when these estimates are given to all the key problems that this person has created, Mr. Baloga. That's why I think that history will put all the dots above "and" and I think that in this case we have a chance at the end of the day to update the whole state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u9	Vladimir Romanovich Moysik refers to Vijacheslav Anatoliovich Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” faction. Next is Anatoly Kinach, instead of his colleague Titenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u10	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine! ” Honourable voters, honourable colleagues, the parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” outraged by Ukraine’s destruction of monuments to victims of Communist terror and fighters for Ukraine’s will. Here are just a few episodes of this undeclared war against national memory. On the night of January 27, in the city of Lozoi, Kharkiv district, a memorial sign was destroyed for the heroes of Ukraine, which was installed in 91st year at the site of the fighting of the Ukrainian army with the Bolsheviks. On the night of April 7, at Ohtyrka, Sumska District, unknown vandals destroyed a memorial sign for the victims of famine and the cross at the site of the establishment of the church complex of the Holy Seppina Temple. On the morning of May 6, the temple of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Kyiv Patriarchate was set on fire in Mariupol, Donetsk. On the night of May 17, on the day of the victims of political repression, an unknown six - foot [6 m] cross was stolen in the memory of the victims of the Holodomor in a spot near the temple in memory of the victims of the Holocaust was set up two years ago to execute the decree of the President of the country. In doing so, it must be said that the cross had been cemented and could only be stolen by means of heavy building techniques. In the morning of May 18, in the Novomosk district of Dnipropetrov, a memorable sign of respect for victims of political repression and famine was destroyed in the center of the city by the efforts of patriotic organizations. I will say separately that these are just some of the most recent examples of this undeclared war against Ukrainian national memory. We still have in mind the recent destruction of the local government of Ukrainian monuments in Krevi Roz and Kharkiv, the desecration of the monumental by the heroes of Krut in the Chernigiv region, the symbols of Ukrainian statehood in Goverly, the destruction in the middle of the white day in Sevastopol of the memorial board in honor of the 90th anniversary of the oath of the Black Sea fleet to the loyalty of the Ukrainian State and the rise on its ship of Ukrainian flags. Now, in Sevastopol, Ukrainian language is virtually prohibited from being used in all secondary schools. Dear colleagues! The “For Ukraine” group asks more than anything the law enforcement authorities, the prosecution, the police, the Ukrainian Security Service. We're waiting for what? May civil peace and peace be destroyed in Ukraine! What kind of collisions and upheavals do we expect? We wait for the Ukrainians to protest on their land, or we will be able to legally prevent those vandal actions that are being committed by unknown young people, but in persecuting local authorities and some political parties that are present in parliament. Please consider this a parliamentary request from the “For Ukraine” group. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u11	Anatoly Kirilovich Kinakh is invited to the presentation by the faction of the Party of the Regions. Next is National Deputy Kenzior Jaroslav instead of Roman Tkacha.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u12	Dear fellow countrymen, distinguished national MPs! The faction of the Party of Regions, virtually all Ukrainian associations of industrialists, entrepreneurs and employers of our nation, are deeply concerned about the deepening of the systemic socio-economic industrial crisis in our country. In fact, our previous conclusion is that the Ukrainian people, the economy, the state as a whole, have become hostages of the ineffective non-professional authority that is now engaged in a mutual struggle, a mutual destruction. The lack of a package of anti-crisis documents with changes, the additions to the 2009 State Budget deepens the gap in real economic access to credit resources, increases the value added tax debt, in fact, does not carry out the task of the Stability Fund, which targets virtually everything on consumption. And by fulfilling the terms of the International Monetary Fund, Ukraine lost some of its sovereignty in the context of defining tax and social monetary and exchange rate policy. The April indicators this year confirm this. An unprecedented fall in the basic sectors of Ukraine's economy is the light industry of April minus 31, metallurgy minus 46, machine-building minus 53, and at the same time the government has virtually banned the publication of data on the performance of the gross domestic product, according to independent expert estimates, it has dropped four months at least by 20 percent. This is an unprecedented fall. A very serious situation in connection with the destruction of the balance of strategic enterprises in Ukraine, Sumihimprom – a strategic chemical enterprise, natural monopolism – is the production of phosphorous fertilizers with a million tons per year, which is primarily important for our agro-industrial complex, which is simplified and practically destroyed daily. There is an increase in the value added tax on the company, an increase in the debt on the pay. The natural gas is cut off and all of this is done before. the future redistribution of the strategic enterprise into political orders and promises. The same is true of the Zaporozhye aluminum combination, the Malisheva plant, the Luhansk Heat Construction plant, and others. In fact, the authorities forgot that the crisis was a severe redistribution of markets and spheres of influence. And that country that doesn't do industry, development, risks always staying on the sidelines. And Ukraine is going to turn into an import and export site for cheap skilled labour. It's going to stop immediately, and we're going to do everything we can to change the situation for the best on the basis of qualified power.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u13	Jaroslav Kenzior, “Our Ukraine” faction. Next, we'll be speaking to the People's Deputy, Fesenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u14	Jaroslav Kenzior, “For Ukraine!” Dear Head, distinguished fellow national MPs, respected fellow countrymen! Last Sunday, Ukraine celebrated for the first time on a national level the Day of Remembrance of Victims of Political Repression. Perhaps many of you have watched a direct broadcast of the tribulation night from Bykovni and a speech by President Viktor Yushchenk of Ukraine. I can say that in particular in Galician villages in every village, every district center has its own Bull. Finally, the world and, most importantly, the Ukrainians will learn about these horrendous scales of repression and the destruction of the Ukrainian people by the Communist regime. But I was very, very sorry to see how the tribulation happened in Bykown, that there was no one more than the President of the Ukrainian State. Is that a demonstration of your position or what do you call it? I am very sad and sad that, apart from the fact that there were no party flags, there were none of the leaders of the National Movement of Ukraine, other political parties. What is this, also a demonstration of your position? As for Movement, I'm not surprised, in principle, because the former Head of Movement, former instructor of the Central Committee of the Communist Party, knowingly, would be uncomfortable for him to be in Bikini. But, dear friends, we have recently celebrated the Year of Victory in World War II. We know that two floors, two tyrants -- Hitler and Stalin in the middle of the war -- have set the world on fire. And today, when we're looking at Christianity, in other cities of demonstration under red flags, under the symbols of this state, this political regime that destroyed millions and millions of people, and they're carrying portraits of the executioners of the Ukrainian people -- Lenin, Stalin, Djreninski and everyone else -- it's insane. So this is the root cause of all of our problems today in Ukraine -- both economic and spiritual, and humanitarian, and so on. Today, the Ukrainian Security Service, on the basis of the President’s decree, has disclosed all the materials. It would be nice for the Security Service to name the number in the session room in the Cabinet of the Chechen Ministers, the agencies, the ones working for the Russian Federal Security Service today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, he now has the floor for Kimov's speech. You're not in football, we're in the session room right now, what's the whistle? Please, come on!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u16	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished fellow MPs! There are two groups of politicians: the first group is policies that are forward-looking, and the second group is policies that are forward-looking. Thus, the Government of Timoshenko, in my view, refers to the second. The principle of working with the Government's business is: to take all taxes from the business now, preferably in advance, then promise to do something later in the future and to imitate violent activities by preparing a huge number of completely empty bills and government decrees. We are concerned that there has been a clear trend over the past four months that there has been a sharp increase in tax pressure on business. There is a gap in a completely unrealistic budget that the Government does not want to review through business. A few facts. We all remember the attempt to introduce transport charges. Yesterday, another attempt was made to impose an increased market fee. We know that since 1 May, higher social payments have been paid to the Pension Fund by entrepreneurs — representatives of small businesses. Advance payments are booming, and the share of advance income tax payments has increased by 2 and a half times compared to the budget. At the same time, VAT repayment is increasing, although the amount of VAT outstanding is also increasing. So the government likes to take the advance, but it doesn't like to pay its debts on time. Recently, another initiative has been joined by Regulation No. 427 which prohibits enterprises from moving losses for 2008 to 2009. This regulation is contrary to Ukrainian law, contrary to any international experience that recommends that tax pressure be alleviated, and it will be particularly affected by small and medium-sized businesses, which are very difficult to protect in courts. The question is, how long will this tax evasion policy last, how long can it last? I don't think so. Therefore, tomorrow, 21 May, when the Government wants to hold an expanded meeting on entrepreneurship in the Ukrainian House, small business is about to announce a nationwide strike. I believe that increasing tax pressure on business is a way to nowhere, that direct threat to tens of thousands of jobs and tens of thousands of wages is a threat to the Pension Fund, to which no payments will be paid. What will the Government pay for the pension? It is time to stop this policy, it is time for the Government to present a real budget, a real programme where, instead of empty promises, there are concrete measures to reduce tax pressure and improve the business climate. Let the business survive, and it will survive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u17	finish. Do you have everyone? Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk refers the right to speak to Irina Heratchenko, the faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”. Next will be Bachelor's Aunt Dmitry instead of Noviko's. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, today the whole of Ukraine, we will all suffer for Ukrainian football. And millions of Ukrainians will be stabbed for the "Shatar", the Ukrainian team under the Ukrainian flags. And I want to draw the attention of all colleagues, particularly from the Party of Regions, from the Communist Party of Ukraine, to respect Ukrainian symbols: our flag and our language. This week, the Sevastopol City Council, most of which consists of Communists and regionals, took an anticonstitutional decision at its meeting on the obligation to teach school subjects in Russian. This decision was taken against the orders of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, according to which all schools should introduce instruction in Ukrainian from September 1st. This is a violation of the provisions of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine concerning the guarantee of the use of languages in Ukraine, including in the educational process. The Sevastopol City Council by such a decision completely destroys any sprouts of rebirth of Ukrainian language on the Crimea Peninsula, particularly in Sevastopol. Moreover, in fact, by their decision, the Sebastopol MPs, whose children have already received education, are bullying the younger generation and not allowing them to join Ukrainian universities. I still urge you to think about it. In Ukraine, 68 percent of the population in Ukraine is considered to be Ukrainian, but neither central nor regional authorities have yet supported the proper promotion of the Ukrainian language. Moreover, I am convinced that there are many more important problems in Crimea, and especially in Sevastopol for the Sevastopol City Council: there are problems with ecology, with stealing land, with prices, with the injustice there, with corruption. These questions are of no concern to the Sevastopol City Council. We regard the decision of the Sevastopol City Council as a direct violation of the Constitution, and we turn to our faction, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense," to the Attorney General's Office, to protest a similar decision of the City Council and to appeal to the Court for its annulment. Otherwise, I think the Supreme Council has to make decisions about the Sevastopol elections. Similarly, we call on our colleagues from the Party of Regions and Communists to ensure that the subject of religion and language, the delicate, important subjects, do not reach like a dead cat from the sleeves, into the electoral process. Please let's solve the economic problems, the pressing problems of the population, and not speculate on the issues that divide society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u19	The word is Tetjana Dmitrovna Bachevieva, a faction of the Party of the Regions. Last performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u20	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! I'd like to have your attention for exactly three minutes, to hear a medical voice, the voice of a million medical personnel, our patients. After 16 years, nothing has been done in the health sector. Today, the industry is in a very critical state. And our indicators, which in 18 years are extremely critical, are why nobody cares either. We are better off hearing loud talk from this rostrum about gas, privatization, factories, NATO, and the battles of ministers. But when it is said that in 18 years Ukraine has decreased by 6 million in 10 years. This figure is equivalent to Denmark, Sweden, as Moldova, as Georgia. And we don't care. Because every year 800,000 of our Ukrainians die. Of these, 80 per cent could be saved if timely but very expensive cardiosurgery was provided. Today, we are saying that the issue of national security is directly linked to the health sector. And today, the prognosis of our boys, 14-17 years old, is only 60 years old. The average length of Ukrainians is much lower than in Europe. The average duration in Europe has long been beyond 78 years. And today we're 64 years old. Today, we cannot defeat epidemics such as tuberculosis for 17 years, taking the lead in Europe. Today, we will never defeat HIV and AIDS infection, because the programme is not funded and we are the leader. Today, we take first place in the.goal mortality. A meeting of the Federation of Pediatrics, CIS and European Countries was held in our country literally yesterday. There were 11 countries, they're amazing, they're beautiful, they're 4 deaths were thousands, and we're 12. Doesn't that concern us today? According to the World Health Organization, if the same situation continues in Ukraine in the health sector further, the population of Ukraine will be 27 million by 2030. And then what? In 100 years, we will not see Ukraine on the map of peace. Dear colleagues! Today, we must say that the country's budget must primarily aim at protecting the health of our patients, our population. Why no money has been allocated in the 2009 budget for the acquisition of equipment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u21	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u22	Wait a minute. Equipment, which is 70 per cent worn out in Ukraine. Look next to our Supreme Council, there's two ambulances, one dental staff, an O.R., an X-ray, a second diagnostic, what we need today, a rural medicine, what we need in the regions. Why the Government has allocated zero kopecks to the Oncology of Children programme today. Why is only 7 of the 24 programmes now funded at 30-40 per cent of the need?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u23	Thank you, Aunt Dmitry.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u24	Today it is not only the President's fault, not only before the Government, but before us all the people's deputies. There will be parliamentary hearings tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u25	Today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u26	Today, I'm sorry. I ask all members of the people to take part in and approach the industry reform approach.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u27	Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues! The speeches of the National Deputies have been completed, as regards the proposals made in the statements of the deputies, I ask the Secretariat to prepare appropriate assignments. Dear colleagues, you've been given a schedule of meetings. We have to consider ratification today, as well as those bills that the Supreme Council of Ukraine failed to process yesterday. I'd like us to work together today. If you'd agreed to look at the bills, because there's a lot of them, under a reduced procedure, since we have a 15-hour parliamentary hearing, we won't be able to continue our work, and it would be very good if we were at 12 o'clock. did not take a break, and our active work today was supported by our team "The Shaktar" to become a winner. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, our colleague Arjewitin says that he has a very important message. 30 seconds, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, today is the day of the bank worker. Let me do it for you. [[B in m in s a l in]] On behalf of our committee, I will welcome all the bankers of Ukraine and assure you that we are doing everything we can to strengthen the banking system to restore confidence in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, me. May I have your attention, please? Dear colleagues, the proposal is to vote so that we can consider the bills on a reduced procedure. Please support this proposal. [[10:39:57]] For 172 Decision taken. A draft Act on Ukraine’s accession to the European Agreement on the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Inland Waterways is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Transport and Communications, Chubay Mikhail Pavlovich. The focal point is the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of Belarus, Oleg Grigorovitch. And, honourable colleagues, announcements. There will be a meeting of the Conciliation Council at 11 p.m. I'm asking the faction leaders to meet me in the office.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u30	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! For your consideration, a draft Ukrainian law on the accession of Ukraine to the European Agreement on the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Inland Waterways is available. The project envisions Ukraine's accession to the European Agreement on the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Inland Waterways, signed on May 26, 2000, in Geneva. Ratification of the agreement will contribute to enhancing the safety of international transport of dangerous goods by inland waterways, effectively promoting environmental protection in order to prevent pollution resulting from accidents and events during such transports. Facilitating transport operations and promoting international trade According to the United Nations Secretariat of the European Economic Commission for Europe, accession to the agreement does not require interested States to make introductory and annual contributions. The implementation of the provisions of the European Agreement on the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Inland Waterways does not require additional costs from the state budget of Ukraine in the current and subsequent years. The adoption of this law is a necessary condition for Ukrainian transport operators to carry dangerous goods by inland waterways and will contribute to Ukraine's strategic course of integration into the European Transport Union. Please support the draft Ukrainian law on Ukraine's accession to the European Agreement on the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Inland Waterways. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u31	Thank you, please sit down, Mikhail Pavlovich. Oleg Grigorovitch, who decided the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u32	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, as the main committee in this bill, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has considered carefully the bill on Ukraine's accession to the European Agreement on the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Inland Waterways. Registration number 0125. The committee approved a recommendation to the Supreme Council to support the ratification of the bill. The purpose of the bill is to further improve the safety of international transport of dangerous goods by inland waterways, to effectively promote the environment and to prevent pollution resulting from accidents and events during such transports. Facilitating transport operations and promoting international trade According to an explanatory note by the Ministry of Transport and Communications, joining the agreement does not require Ukraine’s introductory and annual contributions, which means that it will not have budgetary implications. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office supports Ukraine's accession to the European Agreement on the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Inland Waterways. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Rules has some warnings about the procedure for submitting the bill itself. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Environmental Policy proposes to support the bill and ratify it by the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u33	Yes, dear fellows! A report has been made. No warning? Dear colleagues! Obviously, we need to prepare an appeal to the Cabinet of Ministers in connection with the comments made by our Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council, so that when documents are submitted to the Supreme Council, the name of the person who signed the document and who authorized the person to sign the agreement. Is there no objection? In line with this protocol mandate, I am voting on the approval of the Ukrainian Act on Ukraine's accession to the European Agreement on the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Inland Waterways. Registration number 0125. Please vote. [[10:45:54]] For 344 Decision taken. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Korea on commercial shipping and the Protocol on the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Korea on commercial shipping is being announced for consideration. Registration number 0127. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Transport and Communications, Chubay Mikhail Pavlovich. The focal point is the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of Belarus, Oleg Grigorovitch. Yes, please, Mikhail Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u34	Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, honourable deputies, national deputies of Ukraine. Ukraine's draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Korea on Trade Navigation and the Protocol on the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Korea on Trade Navigation developed for the purpose of carrying out the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since 02 June 2006 with a view to carrying out the internal public procedures necessary for their effectiveness. The draft law provides for the ratification of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the treaties and of the Protocol signed on 20 October 2005 in Kiev. The bill is accepted without notice by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. The decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to ratify the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Korea on commercial shipping and the Protocol on this agreement was adopted on 08.04. In 2009 The implementation of Ukraine’s project does not require additional expenditure from Ukraine’s State Budget. The agreement will create the conditions for stepping up bilateral interstate links between Ukraine and the Republic of Korea to develop maritime cooperation. Taking this into account, please support the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Korea on commercial shipping and the Protocol on the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and a number of the Republic of Korea on commercial shipping. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u35	Yes, thank you, too. Please sit down. Oleg Grigorovich Belarus, committee decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u36	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Foreign Affairs, as the Main Committee of this Bill, has carefully considered and discussed the bill submitted, and has concluded to support its ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This treaty is fully in line with the world practice of international maritime transport agreements and envisions a reviving of Ukraine’s cooperation at an intergovernmental level. The purpose of the law is to ensure that ships of another contractual party have the same treatment as their own vessels engaged in international transport, in the free access to ports open to foreign vessels, in the collection of port assemblies and taxes, in the use of ports for loading and unloading of cargo, and in the landing and landing of passengers, in ordinary commercial operations and in the use of seafaring services. According to official documents of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, the implementation of this bill will not require additional material and other expenditures from government and local budgets. The main scientific and expert office supports the ratification of this bill. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Rules has some warnings about the procedure for the submission of draft legislation. These warnings have the character of those mentioned earlier by Vladimir Mikhailovich. Please ratify this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, there are no warnings against putting to the vote a proposal for a committee to approve the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement? Again, when we called on the Cabinet of Ministers to take into account the comments that our regulatory committee had pointed out. No warning? I am voting on the proposal to approve the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Korea on commercial shipping and the Protocol on the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Korea on commercial shipping. Registration number 0127. Please vote. [[10:51:36]] For 351 Decision taken. A draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on non-productive trauma prevention is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 3122]] The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister for Emergency Situations and Protection of the Population against the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Antonec Vladimir Mikhailovich. The Coroner is the head of the Committee's Subcommittee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Triduk Mikola Fedorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u38	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies! Ukraine's draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislation on non-productive trauma prevention is proposed to determine the authority of local executive authorities and local self-government authorities on non-productive trauma prevention. The absence of local authorities and local self - government authorities in the area of safe livelihoods in Ukraine has led to the failure of some 65,000 people to take action to prevent domestic injuries, resulting in the death of some 2.5 million people each year, some 365 thousand of whom are disabled in Ukraine. The project is intended to supplement part (b) of the first part of article 34 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, part one of article 13 and article 23 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations, with powers in the field of non-productive trauma prevention, since so far the issue of such powers has not been resolved in the Ukrainian legal field. The implementation of the draft act will contribute to the creation at regional level of an effective government system for the prevention of non-productive trauma, as well as to the reduction of the economic loss of the national economy as a result of the loss and injury of citizens. The bill received a positive conclusion from the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, which was considered by the Supreme Council's profile committee, and the results of the first reading could be accepted as a basis. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u39	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Mikola Fedorovich, committee decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u40	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The bill was discussed at a meeting of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government on December 24, 2008, at which it was proposed to be accepted as a basis. I would like to highlight the relevance of the bill. Today, one of the most important problems of great social and national importance is the safety of life and health in life, as well as the prevention of nonproductive trauma. In view of this, it is appropriate to remind all of us that, in accordance with article 3 of the Constitution of Ukraine, man, his life and health, honor and dignity, inviolability and security are identified in Ukraine as the highest social value, and his security is the primary responsibility of the State. It is natural that this problem involves local self - government, its organs, and officials, since local self - government is closest to everyone and is called upon to meet their most important social needs and aspirations. In view of this, the bill to amend some Ukrainian laws on non-productive trauma prevention is appropriate and timely. It provides for amendments to Ukraine’s laws on local self - government in Ukraine and on local government administrations that regulate the involvement of these authorities in determining the problem. That is, a list of the powers of local government administrations and local self - government authorities in the prevention of non-productive trauma is defined. I would like to remind you that the Scientific and Experimental Authority, in its conclusion, is proposing that the bill be adopted as a basis for consideration in the first reading. In addition, committees expressed their support for the bill: legal policy, budget, maternal and childhood health, European integration, which I also propose to adopt as a basis for the bill. So, your honorary colleagues, please support the bill and accept it on the first reading as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, the committee's report has been made. There is a need to exchange ideas on this bill. Have a seat, please. Please sign up for the performance. Please show me the names of the national MPs. Ruslan Knazevitch, faction of our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense. Microphone, please. Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u42	Please hand over Karpuk Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u43	Vladimir Karpuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u44	Vladimir Karpuk, deputy group “For Ukraine”. I think it's a very important law because the causes, the external causes -- poisoning and trauma -- are third among the causes of death in Ukraine and among the reasons. and the cause of the disease. The figures called here, 65,000 people who die from non-productive injuries, and 2.5 million people who are injured and are long-term hospitalized or disabled, are causing a huge economic problem for Ukraine. According to article 32 of the Local Self-Government Act, local self-government authorities are responsible, but the prevention of causes of non-productive trauma is not detailed. And the commissions or programs that are being set up in district councils are in practice formal and not implemented, and so there is no positive shift in statistics on disease and non-productive trauma mortality. After all, even the value of life as such and of human health is guaranteed that these causes of death will not exist. Because to read a kind of media tool and just terrible numbers because people die practically stupidly from injuries and poisoning, and so on, unproductive. Therefore, amending the laws on local self - government, on local government administrations, on prevention of non-productive trauma will greatly improve this work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u45	Thank you. Please, Gordien, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u46	Sergei Gordienko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Honorable colleagues, respected citizens, and respected officials of local self - government. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today there is another attempt in this bill to transfer all responsibility to local self-government for. I'm drawing attention to the organization of the investigation and the responsibility for non-productive trauma. Today, at the level of local governments, especially rural and rural councils, all functions have been transferred, but sadly, more than 20 billion people have been indebted to the State to finance the expenses of delegated powers. I ask myself questions and ask questions along with local government officials. The state refuses and takes away its structures that must care about the prevention of productive and non-productive trauma, organize investigations into these cases, and then get people to be a self-defense person and people to have something at the end of the day, and translate into a local self-government body. Who's at the village level is going to organize the investigation work and that's another question. We're going to make local self-governance organs that aren't going to deal with it. The exercise of their own authority will be carried out by this delegated authority, under which no amount is allocated. Whoever will vote, I'd like you to seriously consider whether to give such authority to the local self-government, without providing anything, this is the mandate to implement it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u47	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u48	Dear colleagues! I point out to you that the government has repeatedly tried to introduce drafts in this sessionary room on an open, cynical basis. Look, it's not the first attempt, it's the government's attempt to take responsibility, and it's the funding of the vital sphere of our society. Remember, here in this session room under the same hypocritical reason that we were told about, Reverend Vladimir Mikhajlovich, the law does not provide for the possibility of local authorities treating children. Children need to be cured by a separate law to be translated into local self - government. I'd like to continue with the opinion of your esteemed colleague Sergey Gordijenko. Today, according to the State Department, local authorities have a deficit of 28 billion dollars. The opposition area already has 386 million coins in its budget. The same disadvantages of local self - government in places. What does this bill offer us? The Social Insurance Fund for Industrial Accidents has been engaged in productive trauma, non-productive injury by the State, and has financed both prevention and compensation for loss of health. All these efforts are now being proposed to be translated into local governments. What are the consequences of this bill? Funding from the budget will be just a measure of prevention of non-productive trauma. At the same time, the mechanism for protecting or compensating victims of non-productive trauma does not provide what makes its position declarant and the only thing it can do to create a new state of officials in places to collect, process information without making up for the loss of health from unproductive trauma. This bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I am voting on a bill to amend some Ukrainian legislation on prevention of injury not of a manufacturing nature No. 3122 in the first reading. Please vote. [[11:04:06]] For-189 The bill is not supported. Mikola Fedorovich, there's no position, no ideas. Let's move on. I am announcing for consideration the draft Law on the Pre-Preparation of Members of Election Commissions. Reporter of the Ukrainian National Deputy Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanovitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u50	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think that anyone who has encountered an election organization or election committee organizers, or in terms of the subject matter of the electoral process, is aware of two problems faced by the electoral commission. One of them is the objective and impartial nature of the activity, and today the solution is ensured by the fact that commissions are formed on the basis of the proposals of the constituencies of the electoral process. However, there is a second problem that has recently become more acute, the problem of professionalism among members of the election boards, their understanding of what decisions can and cannot be made. The point is that today’s board members, especially those who make legally significant decisions, and these are District Elections Commissions, these are the district, district, city election committees of the local elections, often find themselves unprepared for the challenges they face. Today this problem is solved I would say ad hoc. Subjects of the electoral process prepare their representatives on election committees for their fear and risk. However, the bill, developed by the working group on the drafting of the electoral code, suggests that this preparation, without denying the current forms, be put on the level recognized by the State. This is about giving the right to prepare future members of the electoral commission at the level of the course preparation, at the level of the Law to determine the amount of the program that should be and the number of hours to be completed and then to demonstrate the right to work on such electoral commissions by the relevant state certificate. I want to respond immediately to the observation of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, which considers absolutely groundless that this seems to limit the right to participate in the work of election committees. Well, as an example, I'd say at least state service, which is the realization of constitutional law, but requires a certain one.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u51	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u52	In this regard, I would like to remind you that everyone's right to freely develop, in accordance with article 23 of the Constitution, is limited to social requirements and the rights of everyone else. I ask you to support this bill in the first reading. The working group and the committee already have work to do on how to improve it to second reading, but this will enable it to move on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u53	I invite the Head of the Committee on State Building and Local Government Affairs, Sergio Petrovich Podgorny, to report. Please. 11:07:21
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u54	Your Honor, Your Honor! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government, commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 19 November 2008, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Pre-Preparation of Election Commissions. Registration number 2787 from 18.07.2008 The main task of the bill is to provide the conditions for the preliminary preparation of persons who intend to work as district election committees during elections and referendums in Ukraine. To the quality and effective exercise of the credentials of the members of the relevant electoral commissions and the referendum commission, including their heads, their heads and their deputy heads and their secretaries. The meeting also considered the conclusions reached by the committee on the bill. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy believes that the bill does not conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine. The Committee on Budget Affairs has decided that the proposed bill is such that it has an impact on the spending of the State budget and can be adopted taking into account that, subject to the official promulgation of the law by 15 August 2009, it becomes effective no later than 1 January 2010. Otherwise, it may not take effect until 2011. In a summary review of the draft Ukrainian Law on Pre-Preparation of Election Commission Members, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government supported the initiative of its authors and agreed that for a more clear organisation of the work of district and territorial electoral committees on which the organisation of the preparation and election of members of such committees is entrusted, it is appropriate to have a preliminary study. This will help ensure the electoral rights of citizens. By a majority of votes, the committee concluded that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be recommended in its first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u55	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u56	As we consider it in the first reading, accept it as a basis. If approved by his Parliament, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, in preparation for consideration in the second reading, is working on a bill with authors, taking into account expert conclusions and comments and suggestions to be submitted to the committee. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u57	Thank you, Sergey Petrovich. The bill is serious. I understand that there is a need for discussion. Please sign up for this bill. Please explain. Yes, Prince Ruslan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u58	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues. I'm not just in favour, I'm definitely in favour of this kind of project, for this kind of legislative initiative. I think we should start by thanking the author. Since man is well aware of all the nuances and periphery of the electoral process, not just on the side, but, let us say, the multiplicity of political subjects in the elections of the Central Election Commission, well aware of the specificities of the work and the central, and the entire vertical, of the electorate bodies. I also had the honour and opportunity to work with the Central Electoral Commission for one year, and I know how acute and relevant the problem is, to a large extent, the lack of education of those who are offered by the political forces to work in the electoral bodies. I would like to point out that this is primarily about the so-called mid-level electoral commission, or district and territorial election committees. So far, it's not about the district commissions, because I hear here in the towers that we can't radically now at the village level, the city, and so on, teach the board members. Not as long as they're concerned. I agree with the logic of our obligation to reach them. And one day we'll get to, you know, the bright future when in Ukraine we have vertical election committees to the village, the village and the city really formed from professional people. And then we will have no doubt that these people are properly organizing an electoral campaign, not a treaty, of any political power. And we will have no reason to doubt that the results, the protocols that these people's signatures are really consistent with the results and the number of ballots that were in the ballot boxes. I think this is our perspective. But the first important step is to get it started. And that's why I fully support the drafters. I suggest you support him as a base. And then this bill will be a good basis for a single electoral code for all elections and referendums in Ukraine, because it's time for us to actively start working on this, I think it's a pretty important legislative initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u59	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u60	Dear colleagues! The bill proposes laying down rules for the prior preparation of persons who intend to work in district election committees during the elections of the President of Ukraine, the national deputies of Ukraine, the local elections, the all-Ukrainian and local referendums for the effective exercise of the powers of the members of the respective electoral committees. It should be noted that the proposed project is not in line with the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the Central Election Commission, since the bill provides that licensing of activities related to the provision of training services for candidates to the electoral boards, as well as monitoring of compliance with the licensing conditions, shall be carried out by the Central Election Commission. And according to the part of the first article of the First Ukrainian Law on the Central Election Commission, the Commission is a permanent collegiate state body and is empowered to organise, prepare and conduct the election of the President, the National Deputies, the deputies of the local authorities. Note that the current electoral legislation provides for the formation of election committees according to the principle of representation of political parties or constituencies, or candidates, who are the subjects of the electoral process. If many parties were to be deprived of the proposed restriction, this would effectively deprive many parties, blocks, and candidates of the ability to delegate their representatives to the district election boards, since the implementation would be directly linked to the possibility of paying for training and obtaining certificates. The faction of the region suggests rejecting the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u61	Thank you. Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u62	Sergey Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear colleagues, let us discuss and probably agree with the one who offered the previous speaker who has just expressed the position of his political power. I'd like to draw your attention to what we're creating, read the bill carefully, and we see that it says that this is going to be issued to I-IV universities at the level of accreditation, as well as to public organizations. Under what conditions, who and how will receive this right to train these specialists? Next. You know what we're going to need at this point, it's going to be a limited number of these educational institutions, and we're going to have to transport people from all over Ukraine, distract people from work, and so on. This is a complex organizational issue. Next. Let's seriously think about whether this is a certain limitation on the rights of both citizens to participate in the electoral process and the political parties themselves, because this is an additional condition that is not foreseen at all. So by coming out of it and realizing that we are. That this is an additional obstacle to the realization of the rights of citizens, political parties, let's seriously think about it, invite the authors to work on this bill, and at this stage we consider it appropriate that it should be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u63	Thank you. Dear colleagues, no one insists on discussing it yet? Then I put to the vote the draft law on the preliminary preparation of the members of the electoral commission, registration number 2787, on the basis. Please vote. [[11:16:38]] For 227 The bill was approved. We are preparing for the second reading of the bill. The factions. Please explain. Region Party 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 143, Ukraine - 65, People's Self-Defense. Communists – 0, "Block of Lithuania" – 19. Honorary colleagues, author of a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils, Rural, Rural, Urban. Valérie Pisarenko asked him to consult again, hold a discussion. If we take such a tolerant stand and do not consider it today, will no one deny it? To be. Because it's not a simple story, you know, about the number of deputies of local councils. If you don't mind, we'll move it today. All right? Thank you for your support. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils, Rural, Rural, Urban and Urban is then announced for consideration. [[Project of the People's Deputy Kulikov and, respectively, Katerinczuk]] . The first one is 3051 — a project by the national deputy Kiril Kulikov. Please, Kiril Borisovich Kulikov will report on his bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u64	Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues - Ukrainian national deputies, citizens of Ukraine, whom we honor as citizens and we honor as voters! That is why I am asking you to support the amendments to the Law on Elections of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Urban Heads. The main purpose of this bill is to empower urban communities by an absolute majority to choose a real city head. It's important to us because we know what's going on in cities today, we know that today the mayors of big cities are choosing privatized population categories: someone has grandmothers, someone has grandparents, someone has cyclists, someone else has something else. But today the city community is not satisfied with the city leaders we have today. I'm addressing you, distinguished national MPs. I know that many of you are friends, know the mayors of many cities. And I know that measures may not support this initiative. But as politicians, as political parties responsible for the fate of Ukraine, these amendments to the bill are supported by the citizens of these cities. Today we must choose the mayors of cities by an absolute majority. Then we can increase the responsibility of this person who will be elected to this office, to the community, then we can work together between the mayors of these cities, between the councils and the district heads. I suggested that we make some changes to the action.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u65	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u66	Only for one purpose: to give cities communities the right to choose a real action to be taken in front of this community. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u67	Thank you. We'll listen to an alternative bill. I'd like to invite Katerinczuk Mikola Dmitrovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u68	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, the distinguished Ukrainian community! I am introducing Bill 3051/1. The entire Supreme Council of Ukraine worked on it: a group of authors from "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" - Katerinczuk, Omelchenko, Kaskov; from BUTU - Bondar, Bondarenko; from the Communist Party of Ukraine - Martinyuk; from the Party of Regions - Mr. Kostusev. I can say that this bill is probably a concern about the state of political responsibility of the mayors in areas where they are chosen by a practical single social group. Today, none of the existing mayors are working for the entire community. He takes either “loving grandmothers”, or he finds any other sector of his work and works with them to ensure that he can choose for most votes, by an absolute majority, there are 7, 8, 12 thousand. And this creates absolute irresponsibility for the community elected in such a election of leaders. Nevertheless, our bill suggests that the mayor's selection system be changed by an absolute majority and that we move to a system where, in the event that 50 percent of the candidates are not recruited, the second round is held, and then the majority voter becomes the mayor. So we've discussed and made decisions, like all authors by consensus, that this model will only be used for cities where, let's say, there are 75,000 people left. In other cities, however, there will still be an old system of choice for the majority system by an absolute majority. Similarly in the bill, we have completed article 30, which offers complaints and external statements relating to the electoral process to be dealt with by the administration. It's the same thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u69	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u70	Similarly, the system for re-voting improved voting procedures for electoral ballots, their transfer to the territorial electoral commissions through appropriate controls, and the establishment of a more stringent responsibility for the use of the electoral funds of candidates. Dear National Deputies! We are counting on today to start a process towards improving the functioning system, choosing local self-government bodies to be more accountable to the electorate. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u71	I invite the head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Alexander Alexander Omelchenka, to report on both bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u72	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! I report that the committee has considered the bills 3051 and 3051-1, I have the findings of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration with some observations and it is recommended that it be adopted as a basis in the first reading, taking into account that they are similar and the committee recommends that the first reading be adopted by the Supreme Council in the session hall on the basis of 3051-1. With the proposals made in 3051 and considering that the draft amendments to the bill included members of the national deputies from all five factions. I'd like to vote friendlyly on the basis and in the first reading, if you have a question, please. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u73	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Unfortunately, we can't have a discussion. I'd like you to sign up for who's against and have a discussion on this bill. Andrey Pavlovsky, BUT faction, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u74	Andrew Pavlovski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues, this is an important, I count, strategically important bill that should improve the situation of our self-government. It shouldn't be that in large cities, like our capital, the measure on which citizens depend is 13 percent of the number of citizens in the city, I'm counting the abnormal situation, and we have to move on to European practice when measuring large cities, which is the language that measures cities with more than 75,000 people, should be chosen by an absolute majority, i.e. two tours. I think it's fair, and we're going to be cutting out some actors, let's say, not adequate ones that are oriented towards one narrow social group, but which can be paid off for some reason. So I propose to support Bill 3051-1, the more I understand, the political agreement reached, the representatives of all political factions signed. So I don't think there's any political or logical reason not to vote for this bill. So I urge everyone to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u75	Mikola Kulczynski, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u76	Please pass the word of Zinoviya Skutjak.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u77	Zinova Skutjak, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, the Honourable Head, we are seriously ensnared by this law in the law on local self - rule. By the way, in Ukraine, with all the problems we have, legislation on local self-government is more or less normal. Why is this law neither desirable nor necessary? First of all, this is an additional politicization of local self - government. We forget the basic function of local self-government is to organize the vitality of the areas where people choose them. When we make two rounds, we create a position that the city's head should, or the person who is chosen, who claims to be the city's head, should go and negotiate with the political parties, which are then treated accordingly. This is, of course, not the reason why two tours are announced, but the need for the majority of the population to be elected by the city’s head. I guarantee you there won't be any majority of the population, because on the second round, this shows the practice, there will be much fewer voters, and the percentage will be the same. It's harmful to the development of local self-government, and I firmly oppose that we accept it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u79	Thank you! I'd like to take you to the Vadim Carnivore Regional Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u80	Dear colleagues! Bill 3051 should not be supported by the fact that it is written according to political relevance, since the bill does not take into account all the features of the proposed election model; it requires legal regulation on a whole range of issues, including whether candidates who have not entered the second round, the status of the subjects of the electoral process, whether they can participate in the pre-election campaign between the first and the second rounds, or whether they can be subject to charges of action and the inaction of the electoral process’s subjects, etc. And the main thing. This brings additional costs and additional politicization of this process that is unnecessary, as our colleague Skutjak said. Project 3051-1. The fact is that this project has a failed editorial system, which does not clearly recognize the spatial basis for the election of city heads in cities with a population of over 75,000, which will create obstacles to the realization of political rights in the selection of city heads by a large number of Ukrainian citizens. This is about 294,000 representatives of the territorial communities. These are the cities of Døržinsk, Krasnoarmiski, Torres, Hartiz, Krasnodon, Rowenka, Sverdlovsk, Chervonograd, and Anthracite. This may be because of the fact that out of 455 Ukrainians, 88 city councils are chosen not only by the inhabitants of these cities but also by the inhabitants of towns and villages that are united into the territorial community. And we don't have the right to deprive them of this right because they are and they have to be in the electoral process. And the main thing. We should not mix the rights and duties of the territorial community with the political ambitions of any political party. So these bills are useless, they have to be rejected in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, no one insists on the performance? I want to do it again, please. Sergey Podgorny.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the following situation. The committee, when it analyzes the situation with regard to the appointment of out-of-court elections for urban, rural, village heads, when it is the decision of the appropriate council that they suspend their mandate for a period of time, is in most cases that the head was chosen by a small number of voters. And that's where the conflict begins. In cases where the head is defended by the majority of voters, there is usually no such fact. That's why I think that the head is a person who has to be very authoritative for his city, his village, his village, and he has to get most of it. If something is to be improved in this bill, it can be done. So I do offer to accept it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u83	Thank you. Dear colleagues, before voting, I want to remind the committee once again. So we've considered two bills. The Bill of People's Deputies and the Committee recommends voting in favour of Bill 3051-1, which was introduced by national deputies Katerinczuk, Bodnar, Martinyuk, Omelchenko, Kaskov, Bandarenko, Kostusev. So I'm putting in order a bill to amend the election of the Supreme Council deputies, the local, rural Kulikov Bill 3051. [[of the village]] Please vote. [[11:33:14]] For 216 I bet. For the faction, please. The Party of Regions - 1, "The Block of July Timoshenko" - 153, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" - 43, communists - 0, "Block of Lithuania" - 19. I am voting on a bill on the same subject, 3051-1, to amend the Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council, a bill that proposes to support the committee. Once again, I say to the authors: Caterinchuk, Bondar, Martinyuk, Omelchenko, Kaskov, Bondarenko, Kostusev Please vote. [[11:33:59]] For 253 The bill was adopted as a basis for preparing for the second reading. The factions, please. The Party of Regions - 2, "The Block of July Timoshenko" – 155, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" – 50, communists – 27, "Block of Lithuania" – 19. Yes. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Political Parties in Ukraine. [[on batch registration and activity control]] Reporter: National Deputy of Ukraine, Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u84	Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich, dear colleagues! First of all, I would like to thank the Parliamentary Committee for supporting this bill in its first reading. It's inconsequential, but in my opinion, the important changes that will limit the State's influence on political parties. And on the other hand, they will limit party influence to the activities of structures where this party influence is not needed. These structures relate to the prosecution, the investigation, the military, the Central Electoral Commission, which is offered instead of stopping, which, well, half-steps as such, the pregnancy, should be limited, and there should be only non-party members who stop their activities in party structures. On the other hand, it is suggested that the control authorities, which we have dozens of, may require information from parties only within the limits and scope of the legislative mandates. In addition, the Ministry of Justice is deprived of the right to review or effectively suspend party activity in three years, I stress, three years later as a result of the failure of one of the officials at the registration stage to draw the right conclusions. I would like to support this bill in the first reading, and together with the profile committee, we will then take into account all the right suggestions that were made during the discussion of this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u85	Thank you, Anatoly Stepanovich. I invite the head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Sergio Petrovich Podgorny, to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u86	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government, commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 18 February 2009, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Political Parties in Ukraine, registration number 3260, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Griesenk. [[about batch registration and control]] The bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Act on Political Parties in Ukraine in order to organise the procedure for the registration of political parties and their local organizations, to monitor their activities, and to hold them responsible for violating the legislation on political parties. The meeting considered the conclusions reached by the committee on the bill. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy believes that the bill is in line with the Constitution of Ukraine. The Committee on Budget Affairs has decided that this bill is such that it has an impact on the income part of the budget, reducing it. Therefore, if approved by Parliament and the official publication by 15 August 2009, it may take effect no earlier than 1 January 2010, otherwise not before 1 January 2011. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has also made separate remarks to the bill and believes that the result of the first reading may be accepted as a basis. In summary, the bill on government issues is being considered. The Committee on State Construction and Local Self-Government agreed with the author that the Ukrainian Law on Political Parties in Ukraine needs to be improved. The committee supported the need to amend this law with a view to clarifying its individual provisions, filling the gaps, and concluded that it would recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine when considering the draft Ukrainian Law on Political Parties in Ukraine to be adopted in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u87	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u88	As we consider the first reading, accept it as a basis. The comments made to the bill may be taken into account by the committee when it is processed and prepared for consideration in the second reading. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u89	Thank you, Your Honor. Please sign up for a discussion of the bill. Please explain. Ruslan Knazevich, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u90	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! I am in favour of supporting this bill, and I am very grateful to Anatoly Stepanovich for initiating in the session room the need to return to the Political Parties Act, which, in my view, is somewhat outdated and not only. [[may be very subjective, but I think she's close to reality.]] At least for that reason, there is a whole range of legislative rules that run counter to the new ones, such as legislation. In the first part, this refers to the question raised by Anatoly Stepanovich, the decision to ban it. You remember that a valid editorial gives this kind of decision only to the Supreme Court of Ukraine at the same time that the Code of Administrative Justice that we adopted later, and you know that according to the theory of law, the legislative act that is later adopted is valid in relation to the one that was adopted earlier. This right shall be conferred on the courts of the administrative authority accordingly. In view of these circumstances, even if this is the reason we need to confirm that we should vote on this bill for the first time. At the same time, it would be very good if, in the course of the second reading, we were able to accumulate our efforts – and in the complex, we could approach the need to amend the Political Parties Act, even if it would allow for a second reading, in a completely new edition to present to us, let's say, some legislative initiative. Because these are issues that cannot be settled. Of course, Anatoly Stepanovich drew attention to some of the snarling things, but, believe me, if you look at this kind of question from a professional point of view, there's still a number of things that aren't settled: about the process of uniting political parties -- you know, it's relevant -- about the membership needed to register political parties, about activities. For political parties. And how much publicity do we have around how many political parties there are in Ukraine, how many political parties there must be, and how many organizations there are in front of the world? So this question is open.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u91	Thank you. Vladimir Kaplienko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u92	Thank you for the word. Vladimir Kaplienko “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Well, looking at this bill, I really want to stress that the bill really needs our state today, but it has some contradictions that I would like to stress today. First question. Indeed, the bill introduces five definitions that have not yet been settled. In particular, the ban on the creation and operation of political parties, governing bodies and organizations or primary centres outside Ukraine. In fact, so far there have been attempts by some political forces to create their primary centres abroad. The second question is, which is meant to remove such a definition as temporary suspension of party membership. Yes, indeed, if we are to be honest, temporary suspension should be replaced by the word “absorbing from the party”. But this is a standard enough to be discussed with representatives of all parliamentary forces. But the third definition -- that the decision on the creation of political power is taken by at least 10,000 representatives at the assembly -- is, for me, such things cannot be done effectively in the context of Ukrainian reality at all. Question four. As for the ability of the Ministo to cancel the decision to create a political power simply on the grounds that she did not submit a 17-dollar receipt for the registration or payment of the customs, the moment of registration of this political force. It is also a controversial norm to discuss. Well, five. Which is introduced for the first time, and I support by all means the definition that a party organization has the right to carry out some kind of action, to distribute scientific literature and a party direction, and at this cost, it can actually provide for its activities. So in summary, I want to say that if the bill is adopted in the first reading, it needs to be carefully worked out. If he is not accepted in the first reading, in this case he should be brought up again and further with the questions I have discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u93	Vadim Koleschenko, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u94	Thank you. The Law on Political Parties certainly requires very serious work. And the law itself needs a very large number of changes. Because he's really out of date. And it shouldn't be patched up, holes, as we're told. Because these patches are very failing, I think, and they're not. For example, such a definition that the political parties, the decision to form a political party that is taking place at its founding assembly, should be supported by the signatures of at least 10,000 Ukrainian citizens, who, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, have the right to vote in elections, are constantly living in at least two thirds of the number of administrative entities. Where from? We can take 9,000 550 from Kiev, and we can take 9,000 from each other by one vote. So this really interesting detail shows that we need to remake the law. But this bill has to be sent for back-up. Because, according to the Rules, if we accept it in the first reading, it would be impossible to extend these suggestions. And we really need to get together and collegiately with the representatives of all political forces to remake the whole law on political parties as well as on public organizations. Because we are living in a new time. There are new realities, new needs. And in this way, you don't have to fix the holes in this legislation, and you don't have to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u95	Thank you. Dear colleagues, no one insists on the performance? I then put to the vote a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Political Parties in Ukraine on the organization of party registration and the control of activity, number 3260. And I'm reminding you that the committee is proposing to take on a foundation, and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration is also supporting the adoption of a foundation. Please vote, first reading. [[11:45:53]] For 114 The decision is not taken. No suggestions on the committee, the author? Ask for the first time again. Dear colleagues, I would then like to vote in favour of sending this bill for re-reading. Please vote. [[11:46:27]] For 132 The bill is not supported. Let's move on. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Unification of Citizens on Appointment is being announced for consideration. I invite the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vladimir Ivanovich Landik, to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u96	Honourable Chairman, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! Your opinion is proposed in Bill 3312 on amending the Ukrainian Law on the Unification of Citizens. In Ukraine, society is actively being formed. Every day there are new social organizations and organizations. This testifies to the development of democratic processes. At the same time, however, the monitoring of the information space in Ukraine showed that there are a number of public organizations whose names are either similar or very similar to the names of the public authorities or their structural units. For example, the Committee to Support the Constitution, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Control, the Committee on Consumer Rights, the National Committee on Combating Corruption, the International Committee on Human Rights, the Committee on Combating Corruption in State Authorities, Law Enforcement Authorities, Prosecutors and Courts, and others. This brings summation and confusion into the social consciousness, does not allow the perception of society by both public organizations and certain public institutions to be adequately shaped. This has a negative effect that cannot determine the effectiveness of the results of both public organisations and public authorities. Therefore, my bill proposes that, in the name of citizens’ associations, the use of word associations that are similar to the names of public authorities or local self - government bodies and their structural units should be banned, or that they should be considered to belong to them. According to the Scientific and Expert Office, the bill can be adopted in the first reading, and for the second reading, we will consider the proposals and observations of all the subjects of the legislative initiative. I'd like a colleague to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u97	Thank you, Vladimir Ivanovich. I invite the head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Sergio Petrovich Podgorny, to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u98	Honorable Predestination! Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council on State Building and Local Self-Government, commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council on 18 February 2009, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Unification of Citizens on Appointment. Registration number 3312, dated 24.10.2008, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Landik. The bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Law “On the Unification of Citizens” and to establish that the name of the citizens’ union may not contain words similar to those of the authorities of the State, or of local self-government and their structural units. As well as word associations that give the impression of belonging to civil authorities or local self - government, their structural units. The meeting also considered the conclusions reached by the committee on the bill. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy does not see in this draft law violations of the Constitution, supports it, and recommends Parliament's consideration. The Committee on Budget Affairs has decided that the bill has no impact on the income and expenditure of the budget or on its implementation during the current budget period. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine makes specific remarks to the bill and believes that the first reading of the bill can be adopted on the basis of the comments and suggestions made. The committee supported the amendment proposed by the bill and the vote of all those present at the meeting of the Ukrainian people's deputies reached the conclusion of recommending to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, when considering the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Unification of Citizens, in the first reading, to adopt it as a basis. [[about naming]] A draft of the relevant decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been submitted to Parliament by the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u99	Thank you, Sergey Petrovich. Dear colleagues, the subject is topical, important. I understand that there is a desire to discuss. Please sign up, who's up for it, who's up for it. Please explain. Vadim Koleschenko, Party of Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, we certainly have many examples today when fraudsters and others, not very conscientious citizens, use the names of their so-called public organizations to produce negative consequences and to distort the activities of public authorities and other social organizations. We also know how the so-called duplicative organizations are being prepared, which are being called, which are being created not only to distort activity, but to use it as a principal or prominent organization, or to use it for their fraudulent actions or other negative consequences. So we propose to support this bill in the first reading and to make it easier to read on the second reading so that Parliament can sign it and support it as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u101	National MP Roman Zabzaluk is passing on Valery Pisarenko, please. The Microphone of the People's Deputy Valery Pisarenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u102	The Timoshenko Block proposes to work constructively, to support our colleague's bill and to move to the consideration of other bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u103	No one insists on the performance? Then I put to the vote the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Union of Citizens on Appointment, Bill 3312, to be adopted as a basis. Please vote. [[11:53:42]] For 352 Decision taken. We're preparing for the second reading. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the regulation of the discharge procedure of the Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine]] Rapporteur of the Ukrainian National Deputy Valérie Volodymyrovich Pisarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by the bill, in fact it is small enough, it is a matter of bringing the law into line with the Constitution of the law in force and accordingly the bill is aimed at eliminating the contradictions between paragraph three, part two, article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of Property and paragraph 12, part one, article 85 of the Constitution. Under the law, we have the head of the State Property Fund appointed and relieved of office by the Supreme Council, and according to the Constitution, the head of the State Property Fund is appointed by Parliament for the appointment of the Prime Minister and is released by Parliament. It is solely an exception to the law of Ukraine, not a constitutional norm. I propose to Parliament to work as constructively as we have just worked with my colleague Landik's bill, to vote this bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u105	Thank you. To the report, I invite the head of the subcommittee, the Economic Policy Committee, Alexander Mikolayovich Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u106	Honorable Leader, Honorable People's Deputies! The draft was drafted by the author. I want to talk about the decision of the Economic Policy Committee. The committee unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill as a whole. Why in general? Because there is really only one sentence out of the law that contradicts the existing Constitution. To avoid disagreement, we must do so. I don't think there's gonna be any objection. All other issues related to the Fund's headship of the Fund are defined in the Constitution and require a separate Act on the State Property Fund. I am asking for support, and once again, I would like to say: vote on the basis and generally on the amendments to the Law on the Privatization of State Property. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u107	Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. Is there a need to discuss? A serious question. Please sign up, who's up for, who's up for it. Light up, please. Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u108	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, we need to order the Pisarenko who passed this bill, because he really wants to take care of legal purity, constitutional purity. But on the other hand, I asked not to worry if this bill is not supported, because everyone knows well that the Constitution has a higher legal power, and everything should happen in accordance with the Constitution. Each law that conflicts with the Constitution is invalid. But if we carry out our parliamentary assignment and clear those laws that do not comply with the Constitution, we are simply thanked by those who do not know that the Constitution still has a higher legal power. Therefore, I propose to support the removal from the law that appoints the Head of the State Property Fund in agreement with the Supreme Council, because the changes in the Constitution adopted in 2004 are passed to other authorities and I support the proposal of the Committee in view of the fact that it is a constitutional norm, given that it does not raise any legal objections and cannot call for a vote in general as a matter of law. That's the same thing as time and time, and economical paper that we're going to spend on second reading. Please be supportive. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u109	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! No one insists on the performance? Then let's do it this way. Now we're going to vote for the basis, and then we're going to go back to the proposal of the committee as a whole. So I'm announcing for the vote a draft law amending some of Ukraine's laws to regulate the release of the Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine registration number 1262, based on. Please vote. [[11:58:37]] For 230 Dear colleagues! The proposal was for Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk and the committee to accept it as a whole. Is there a denial? There's a denial. Unfortunately, dear colleagues, then the committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] There's also a denial in the faction of "Our Ukraine" and. [[B in m in s a l in]] Jaroslav Suhi has already withdrawn the objection I see. Yeah, we took one off and you insist? Please, Keykovsky microphone. Julia Keykovsky microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u110	Thank you! Yuri Klukkowski "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues! I want to remind you that only yesterday did we vote on the four pages of the comments to the bill, which we voted “out of the way” in the first reading and in general. And this practice has become very popular in us lately. So I think we should get this over with. Let's do a normal procedure, in two weeks we'll adopt the law as a whole. What's more, as Adam Ivanovich said, the Constitution is in force today and nothing will happen in these two weeks.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u111	Dear colleagues! Maybe we're just going to ask, we're going here, we're just going to delete the norm and we're going to bring it into line with the Constitution. Target here, if I thought there was no legal discussion here. If Yuri Bogdanovich did not insist, we voted in general. Yuri Bogdanovich, don't you insist, Yuri Bogdanovich? Don't insist. Then I'll put it all to a vote. I'm putting in a bill to amend some of the laws of Ukraine to regulate the release of the head of the Ukrainian State Property Fund. Please vote. [[12:00:46]] For 234 The bill was approved. Constitutional justice is restored. Dear colleagues, 12: 00 p.m. I see the general mood that we need to consult during the break, to consult. That's why I'm calling it a break. Let's get back to work at 12.31 p.m.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, request to be drawn up. Let's keep going, keep going. Dear colleagues, I am announcing for consideration the draft Law on Moratorium to amend the purpose of the assignment of land for recreation in cities and other locations. [[Bill of John the Hare]] And at the suggestion of the Committee, Ivan Aleksandrovitch will report both as author and as representative of the committee, as deputy head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster. Please, four minutes then, Ivan Alexanderovich. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u113	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Dear National Deputies! The bill provides for the introduction of a five - year moratorium in exchange for the purpose of assigning land for recreation. What specific areas of land are covered in the bill. Land areas are well - organized and are located in cities and other populated areas, such as green areas, squares, botanical gardens, parks, forest parks, and so forth. About green areas, physical and sports objects, including stadiums and sports grounds, children’s playgrounds. This bill is based on at least two circumstances. First. The natural environment of urban and other inhabited areas has recently deteriorated rapidly. To a large extent, this has to do with widespread abuse during the construction of areas of the population, particularly by ignoring legislation when changing the target destination of land for recreation. This leads to a sharp decline in green areas, such as squares, parks, forest parks, and the destruction of sports and children’s infrastructure. As a result, historical landscapes are changing, the living conditions and the rest of the population are deteriorating, the population's disease is increasing, problems are spreading in the area of child and youth education, and social tensions are increasing in the community. Every day the media informs us of natural or organized public appearances in defense of a park or square, a stadium, or a children’s playground. Quite often, severe physical collisions occur between those who protect the environment and those who lift the ax or produce the bulldozer. The Supreme Council has already decided to protect the Botanical Garden of Grisk in Kiev, and not once in this Hall have statements and parliamentary requests to protect the stadium of Kyiv National University of Technology and Design in Kiev, the Syrian Parks of the capital, and so on and so forth. In Kiev alone, examples of brutal destruction of objects with recreational nature can be cited throughout the day. Such an alarming situation is being observed throughout Ukraine. During the parliamentary hearings on Chernobyl, I had already given an example of the fact that even Chernobyl’s Heroic Park in Nicholas was threatened with destruction. Clearly, the destruction of sports and physical infrastructures, the destruction of green plants in populated areas, has taken on the nature of the epidemic. This process of self - destruction can only be halted by introducing a moratorium on the change of destination for recreational lands. Let us not forget, honourable national deputies, that the earth has not been taken from our parents by present generations, we have borrowed it from our children, and we must keep it healthy. The second circumstance that prompted me to draft this bill is the desire to push the government and parliament into finally meeting the requirement of 52 articles of the Earth Code, which requires the development and adoption of a law on the order of use of recreational land. So whatever side of the problem we're facing, we need such a law if we're going to take care of the current rights of citizens and think about the future of the nation. The bill provides for the introduction of a five - year moratorium in order to change the target destination of land objects with a well - arranged recreational destination and located in the settlements. It is also envisaged to expand the area of recreational land. The main scientific and expert administration, like a number of committees, has noted this bill. Most of these comments are accepted and will certainly be included in the second reading. The Ministry of Environmental Protection and the State Department support the adoption of the bill. So I'm asking you, people's deputies, to adopt this bill in the first reading, in the second reading, we're going to correct it according to the warnings and observations that the committees gave us. That's the possibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u114	Thank you, Ivan Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, the topic is important, relevant and resonant, please sign up for discussion on this bill. Please explain. Yes, Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u115	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” We support this very important and really resonant bill because there is no city or town in Ukraine where there is no change of destination, especially recreational, children's or sports grounds. Absence in many places of the master plan is a contributing factor in trying to squeeze in between. Recreational zones are green plantings. New buildings are multifaceted, and this usually has a negative impact on the environment and on the health of the population, especially the child’s age. Thus, the introduction of a moratorium will allow these issues to be settled. In our view, perhaps the five - year term is too small. When working on it, we need to think about extending the term. And the main thing is that this law really gets applied and implemented, because we know that even the people in this room have built their cottages in botanical gardens, national parks, and such a wastebasing of recreation zones and such an attitude towards recreation zones, there are certainly no sports grounds in any country. That's why we're going to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u116	Thank you. Before I give my word, I want to say as the author of a bill that has been adopted and is in operation. We decided to ban the change of destination for sports, recovery. The other thing is that this decision is not being implemented. I do not object to this law because it is more important and important, but in this part about sport, the Supreme Council has adopted this call. Vitaly Terentijovich Korz, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u117	Honourable Chairman, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! I find it relevant that the project proposes the introduction of a five - year moratorium to change the target destination of land, facilities and all forms of property that are recreationally assigned and located in cities and other populated areas. We also consider it necessary that the project prohibits the destruction of objects by the design of sports and children’s infrastructures of all forms of property. At the same time, the project proposes to expand the land of recreation in cities and other populated areas by increasing the proportion of green areas and green plants and increasing the number of physical and sports objects. In addition, the bill has been commissioned by the government to draft a bill on the land of recreation, city administrations in Kiev and the city of Sevastopol, local authorities in cities and other localities to implement, within a fixed time limit, the inventory of the lands of recreation and facilities in these lands. It is also envisaged that the land of recreation, or recreation, will be extradited in kind. We will support the decision of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, and we propose to adopt the bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u118	Thank you. I'd like to invite Mikhail Chechtov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u119	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, the project envisions a moratorium on the change of destination of recreational land, as well as a mandate for executive authorities, local self - government authorities, to carry out a variety of recreational activities. It should be noted that the individual positions of the project are of a declarative nature and do not contain mechanisms for their implementation. This is a ban on the destruction of objects through sports and children’s infrastructure. However, compliance with this provision is not ensured by the establishment of responsibility for its violation, financial and organizational arrangements are not provided to ensure that the provision for the expansion of the community’s recreational destinations is implemented. We believe that such a provision should be included in appropriate national and local programs, not in law, which should determine the general rules. In addition, the bill requires compliance with the rules of the Ukrainian Code of Land. The faction of the Party of Regions proposes to reject the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u120	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's take a position on this bill by voting. And I would like to invite Sergei Gordienka, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u121	Sergei Gordienko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine I'm paying attention to all my colleagues and the drafter of the bill, which I signed up against, not because we're voting against this bill, but because I signed up against what's being created today in the state that's being created in the residential areas with all the assignments, especially the recreational and all the rest, leisure and normal living conditions of the children. Respectable citizens! We need to be supportive of this bill in our first reading, and it is a law that respects our fellow believers. And I, Ivan Alexanderovich, would ask a lot more questions. And we should probably stand on this, not just about the moratorium, but about inventory, bringing the guilty to justice, and banning change, because it's just too soft today. It's just taking up space that provides a person's vitality, especially in urbanized centers, such as cities and the capital of our Ukraine. But there are few that have reached rural areas, where these areas are taken away from even the resorts and communities. We suggest in the first reading that we support and perhaps broaden the scope of this law considerably.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u122	Thank you. Dear colleagues, no one insists on speeches and speeches? You don't? Dear friends, I inform you that the committee is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis. So I am voting on the draft law on moratoriums to change the target destination of recreational destinations in cities and other locations. Registration number 2443. Please vote on the basis. [[12:46:54]] For 251 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 1, "Timoshenko Yulia Block" – 145, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 60, communists – 27, "Litvina Block" – 18. I would then ask a committee to prepare for the second reading, to take into account the proposals of our Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, and our colleagues from other factions, and to prepare this bill so that we can adopt it in a second reading and in general. I'm announcing a draft Act amending the Law on Resorts in Ukraine. The rapporteur is Vladislav Viktorovich Kornienko, the first deputy minister of culture and tourism, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u123	Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! Ukraine's draft Act on Amendments to Ukraine's Act on Resorts has been prepared with a view to bringing Ukraine's Pro Resort Act into line with the requirements of the Constitution of the current legislation and legislation of the European Union. The draft act specifies a conceptually terminological apparatus that will contribute to bringing the terms used in the resort area into line with world standards, which in turn will contribute positively to the integration of the domestic resort sector into the world community. The draft law also provides for a change in requirements for areas and areas of health care for the resort, which allows for the establishment of several areas of the strict regime and several areas of the restricted areas. In the drafting of the laws on the declaration of natural territory, there were misunderstandings about the definition of boundaries of districts and areas of sanitary protection of resorts such as Slavyansk, Mirrod, Morshin and others, which were resolved in the proposed new text of the bills in articles 31-32. These changes will remove the need for the establishment of the first and second resort security zones. Thus, the adoption of the proposed amendments to the Pro resorts Act will, first of all, facilitate the streamlining of the functions of the special authorized central authority of the executive branch on the activities of the resorts. The distribution of the functions of the central and local authorities for the activities of the resorts. Clarification of the procedure for the declaration of natural areas by resorts. Establishing the required number of areas for health care at the resorts, etc. The bill meets the requirements of the Ukrainian legislation adaptation programme to European Union legislation and belongs to priority areas. Please uphold the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u124	Thank you, Vladislav Viktorovich. Our health committee proposes to the report of Karpuk Vladimir Grigorovitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u125	Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Health at its meeting on March 18, 2009, reviewed the draft law amending the Law on Resorts of Ukraine, registration number 3249, issued by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The proposed amendments to the Pro resorts Act are primarily aimed at regulating the legal and organizational principles for the development of resorts for the rational use of natural areas and natural curative resources in Ukrainian resorts. The Committee is of the view that it is appropriate to support the additions and amendments to a number of articles of the "Pro resorts" Act aimed at clarifying the procedure for the notification of natural areas by resorts, the distribution of functional responsibilities of central and local authorities and local resin administrations for the activities of resorts, the refinement of the arrangements for the establishment of borders and the regime of districts from the health or mining areas of resorts, the determination of the legal and regulatory format for the declaration of natural territory by the resort of State importance, the refinement of the terminology and the establishment of control over the use of the natural properties of the resort. At the same time, the committee made a number of comments and suggestions to the bill. Yes, the proposed new article 8 narrows down the context of the current article considerably, limiting the number of interested subjects who can take part in initiating the efforts to fence the natural areas with resorts and the role of local self - government in this process. Note is also drawn to the conclusion of the Chief Executive. In order to preserve the rational use of natural resources, the state protection of resorts, we consider it necessary for further work on the bill, to establish a clear list of the territory of the country, which is the national acquisition, the resorts of national importance. The Committee thus recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill on the basis of further proposals from both the Committee and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u126	Thank you. Dear colleagues, seriously, I ask you to register who would like to take the floor. Please show me your last name. Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u127	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I will press the counter button to draw attention to the serious flaws and observations to this bill. But if we feel that those who work, then if we take them as a basis, are willing to correct them, we are certainly ready to support this bill. What we're talking about is pretty serious things that we're going to do again at local self-government. If the authorities of local self - government had previously had the right to make proposals to advertise the territory with State importance, it is now concluded that this could be done either by a central authority or by a local executive authority, or by government authorities, for the submission of local self - government authorities. What, though, should be done to ensure that everyone has the right to submit? Both the Central Executive Authority, and the local executive authority, and the local self - government authorities, still give only trouble. The Cabinet of Ministers then submits the final concern in the form of a draft law. It probably doesn't matter who goes to the Cabinet. Similarly, if we allow local self - government authorities to have such a right, we will not limit their rights, especially since local self - government is legally, constitutionally, contrary to public administrations. I think on the second reading it can be done, and there will be no problems. And one more thing. We also need to think about a serious proposal that sounds because these areas will now be declared only legally and that is the right thing for the Cabinet of Ministers to propose, the Supreme Council accepts this proposal in the form of law. But some of us have already announced the decrees, and this is where we need to settle this point. So if this and other comments are regulated on second reading, we are ready to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u128	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u129	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear National Deputies! Of course, the question is very important, but I was surprised that this bill does not have the complexity, the complexity of the approach. Can we not see today that the resorts are being submerged in mud? Don't we see today that in the resorts, especially Alushta, this is about Odessa, you can't go to the sea to people and so on. Don't we see that today we have to put a completely different responsibility for what we are sneezing, we have to see that there is something completely different, especially the protection of the environment in these areas of the resorts. So we have to put, as in the previous project, where we talked about the moratorium on the production and destruction of these parks and everything else, we have to ask in the resorts a long time ago that instead of one fell tree three or five trees are planted, and we don't do that. We have the Carpathians, they work hard, they destroy, and we have no one to ask. That's why I'm going to the government. Ladies and gentlemen! There are enough laws that are not being implemented today. I was in Belgrade-Dniestrowsk two days ago under Odessa. Loaded barges, loaded round. And the projects I put on the moratorium for the export and for the complete logging of the forest are not implemented. No country in Europe is more able to export a round. And we take out, and then we get the spike, and we get every product from there. What are we doing, people? Surrender! I understand those sailors who have nothing to do, and they have something to carry. But I don't understand those who cut the Carpathians, those who destroy our lungs! These people, I don't understand! That is why this law must be adopted, but the comments Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk made only mildly, should be taken into account. And you have to write down here the responsibility for violating environmental legislation on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u130	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u131	I believe that the responsibility for violating environmental legislation at the resorts should be multiple. So if it's installed in Kiev, let's say, within 300 bracelets, it's going to be 5, 10 times more on the resort. And everything, and then we're going to make these territories attractive -- that's the wealth that we have to preserve and that we have to attract investment. Thank you. I'll be in favor of the first reading, only I want this project expanded and deepened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u132	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, no one insists on the speech, a rep? So after the first deputy minister of culture and tourism, Vladislav Viktorovich Korniyenka, I realized that the ministry had understood the warnings that our colleagues had made in part that it was generally unfair for local self - government authorities to be excluded as a subject of submission. And, I think our committee will then actively, actively work for the second reading if adopted in the first reading settles this issue. So I'm putting the draft Act amending Ukraine's Pro resorts Act 3249 to a vote on the basis. Please vote. [[12:58:39]] For 339 Decision taken. The bill was adopted in the first reading. We're preparing for the second reading. I am announcing a draft Act amending article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on Corporate Income Taxation. Deputy Minister of Finance Dennis Alexanderovich Fudashkin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u133	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is introducing to you a bill amending article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on Business Income Taxation. The proposed bill is aimed at simplifying the procedure for decommissioning in and outside Ukraine. The need to develop this bill is due to the complexity of the shipping process to date. Yes, the bill proposes to abolish the requirement in the Corporate Income Taxation Act that shipping should be confirmed by a certificate of departure with the sealing of the shipping party and the receiving party, replacing the issue with a warrant for shipping. Generally speaking, it is not always possible to obtain such seals from the receiving party, since in many cases there is no receiving party in particular in the territory of Ukraine and the commanders may be associated with other functions. This law deals directly with income tax payers, greatly simplifies shipping and weakens regulatory influence. In our view, the existence of certificates of dispatch for operators is just a bureaucratic tool that is not appropriate today. Please support the proposed bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u134	Thank you. I invite the Deputy Head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Constantine Anatoliyevich Bondarev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u135	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting considered this bill amending article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on Business Income Taxation, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[Registration number 2522]] As already defined by the rapporteur, the bill has been drafted to simplify the procedure for the registration of service missions by cancelling the need to make markings on shipping or receiving parties within Ukraine and countries with which border controls have not been established or simplified. The problem that the government is trying to solve in this bill really is in practice. In some cases it is not possible to make a note of the receiving side. In fact, it's a line. This rule is somewhat archaic today. There are no marks abroad, but rather than taxation, there is a procedural, technical issue. We are offered instead of the markings of the shipping or receiving parties on the shipping certificate to enter the supporting documents, the list of which should be approved by the central tax authority. In the course of the discussion of the bill, comments were made that an alternative list of supporting shipping documents should be determined directly in the law, since the development and approval of such documents by the central tax authority would take some time. Moreover, rules of law should be the norm of direct action. This is also true in this case. Conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In view of the above, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on Corporate Income Taxation, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to be adopted as a basis for the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u136	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u137	What kind of papers? These may be documents that confirm that the person recorded the hotel number or was driving, tickets and so on. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u138	Thank you, Constantine Anatolyovich. Please sign up for the discussion of this bill. Show me, please. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, well, I thought I'd heard and seen everything in this session hall, but a circus like this when the government is looking out for commander's licenses and on a mission to follow some new documents that will be developed once again. And tell me, please, and why is the central authority of the Tax Administration here? What does a tax collector have to do with the fact that a business entity — a factory or a factory — is directing its specialist to his own branch office on a mission? There is a clearly defined form: How many days, how many days, how much a passage costs, is a report that is easy to verify. I think that in this case the government is doing some kind of non-specific function and is trying to replace the functions of economic and entrepreneurial entities, to assume functions that are not her own -- and to complicate the lives of business subjects. Well, I don't get it. The statement by the representative of the committee and the ministry raises this problem that he himself said would be the corresponding supporting documents, which are approved by the central tax authority. Can someone explain to me in this session room what is the relationship between the tax authority and the decommissioning of business subjects? What will it give to whom: It will simplify the business, and it will simplify things for the taxpayers? Why are such bills put into the hall and take up our time?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u140	Thank you. Alexander Klimenko, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u141	Thank you. Ukrainian National Party, Alexander Klimenko I will personally support this bill in the first reading, but I would like now to draw the attention of the entire session room to the relevance of using such missions, especially when, we see, from Eastern Ukraine -- I mean, Donetsk and Lugansk -- were full of representatives of the Ministry of Fuel and Energy and the Ministry of Coal Industry. I would like to point out how appropriate it is to call them in a timely manner is the first. Secondly, I would like to remind you that if we talk about our real economy, then. And so we're very concerned about the level of GDP decline, so I'd like to remind you that we had the Ministry of Chemical Industry in North London, in Dnipropetrovsk, the Ministry of Black Metallurgy. in color, Donetsk had the Ministry of Coal Industry. So I would like first of all to foresee in this bill the responsibility of officials for using these services. That's the first one. And secondly, maybe it's time to look at the location of these main sectoral ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, there were serious comments or questions about Jaroslav Suhogo. I am. From the Committee of Constantine Bondarev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u143	Thank you. The fact is that it is the cost of the mission that is spent by the operators. And these are gross costs. These costs go and are accounted for as gross costs. And that's what controls tax. And to simplify the costing system, but it's not very serious and it's not very expensive, it's not huge, but we're producing a very rich amount of documentation. And that's the result. And we've been following these questions since the 1950s, and that's an old form. So we suggest that we unify the new form of reporting and simplify our lives first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u144	Thank you. Honorable colleagues, if not denied, are still a replica of Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin. Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u145	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, here they asked, who can answer, why tax? I can answer that. The point is, there may be tax evasion in such a situation. It is often formed this way and defrauded. And people go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. That's the first one. The other one. I'm with those against it today, and everyone's registered against this bill today. I mean, if we leave it the way it is now, when it says in article five: “The cost of the day is determined according to the markings of the shipping and receiving party.” It's savagery, it's got to be changed, it's got to be canceled. So we have to accept this project. The other one. I agree with the colleagues who said, from the committee, that in the absence of the documented supporting documents, this needs to be removed from this text, and it will continue to be absolutely, absolutely normal, but you can do it in a second reading. So the bill has to be adopted in the first reading, processed, and everything will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u146	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, we need to make decisions. I am voting on the draft Act amending article 5 of the Ukrainian Act on Taxation of Business Income to accept it as a basis. [[Registration number 2522]] Please vote. [[13:09:32]] For 212 The committee, no suggestions? There's an offer, dear fellows, to read again. I would like to vote in favour of re-reading the bill. Please vote. [[13:10:09]] For 214 The committee and the government should continue to convince our colleagues. The bill was rejected. I am announcing a draft Act amending article 61 of the Education Act and article 64 of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. [[on the conditions of payment of training]] The committee recommends from the copyright team, I'll say, and from the Vitaly Seminovich Kurilo Committee. Please, four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u147	Honorable National Deputies, according to the valid standards of the Higher Education Act and the Education Act. The salary is set in higher education institutions over the entire course, taking into account the officially defined level of inflation in the previous calendar year. The bill provides for the repeal of the provisions of the Higher Education Act on the prohibition of changing the pay for education throughout the course of education. The size of wages is proposed to be taken into account, in terms of wages, inflation rates, wage increases and utility payments in the previous year. This bill is prepared for requests and numerous appeals by the Rectors of the higher educational institutions of Ukraine. The annual funding of higher education from the state budget general fund of Ukraine cannot meet the cost needs of educational institutions. Although the state has increased year after year to maintain higher education institutions, rising prices and tariffs for utilities, energy services, and so forth are ahead of increasing budgetary allocations. It's not hard to predict that the financial crisis is exacerbating the financial situation of education, especially in the next two or three years. In financial terms, therefore, the primary burden is on the costs of a special fund of higher education institutions that are formed by the provision of paid educational services. Thus, receiving a specific education from colleges is a crucial factor in ensuring the full operation of higher education institutions. However, existing legislation makes it impossible for economic efficiency to work in this direction. Under the conditions of systematic wage increases in teaching, price increases and tariffs for utility services, the training of contract students from the third grade, and in some of the specialties from the second class, for universities is a waste. As a result, they raise their fees for the first course, and so the payload goes to the first course, and they actually teach the fourth graders. On the basis of the higher education fees, it is proposed that the standard be abolished and that the fees be changed to inflation. That is how we will create better conditions for higher education institutions to provide quality educational services. The committee considered this issue and recommended that it be accepted as a basis for the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u148	Thank you, Vitaly Semenovich. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for this bill. Please show me. Ruslan Knazevich, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u149	Karpuku Volodymira Grigorovitch, please give me the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u150	Please give it to Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u151	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”, a parliamentary group “For Ukraine”. Dear colleagues! Let us consider the importance of learning for many of our families so that children can gain higher education and the extent to which it is a significant component of family spending, even in the periphery, without talking about the city’s towers, the prestigious branches. What is involved in this law? The point is that a higher educational institution in one - sided order can change a contract with an increase in pay for schooling before a child does not know and the family does not know how much the salary will increase. By introducing a correlation with inflation rates, a more faithful inflation index and an increase in minimum wages and utility payments in the previous year. Already in the inflation index there are calculations for tuition fees, utility fees, housing, and so on. We can imagine how much trouble this is going to be for a child who's learning and for a family, when a college without warning with any motive, because we understand that now that statistics are closed, when we don't even know what inflation index and what calculations they're going to take from, higher education institutions are going to increase the pay for the learning process, because now that we're using the natural disaster, many children from the state form of learning have been transferred to the pay form without any warning. And it's better to ask the rectors of the colleges who represent the author of the legislative initiative how rational this fee is being used, because the pay is no longer on the teaching process.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u152	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u153	After all, the fees paid by higher education institutions are not intended to optimize the educational process but rather to increase the material base or to buy some expensive furniture for their offices. That's why I and our parliamentary group are against the adoption of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u154	Vladimir Polochalo, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Please, Vladimir Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, I just wanted you to look closely at the bill and I want to say that there's some sense, but let's say there are some nuances in the previous speaker, of course. The committee was looking at this bill and really the higher educational institutions were going to the committee at the Cabinet of Ministers, and we responded and supported this bill by Mr. Kuril. I mean, we did, even though there was a discussion. What's the point, today, of the consumer price index or the consumer price index, of an indicator that describes the dynamics of the general level of prices for goods and services already takes into account the change in prices in the field of education and housing services. That's the first one. And second, who knows the higher education institutions well, they have been in a difficult financial position for many years, and therefore, the main burden is on the cost of a special fund of higher education institutions, which is formed by the provision of paid educational services. So this law, as in the first reading, this idea of committee after committee discussion and consultation is very thoughtful to support. But there's no rector saviour. Most of the rectors are respectable people. Because the bill in the first reading, unfortunately, does not. In order to have control, but along with the fact that a freshman doesn't pay for a third-grader, because that's how it works, he's in third-to-fourth grade. What should we do in this second reading bill? So that the salary for the entire course is adjusted over the course for the inflation rate of the previous year, but not more than once a year. If it's not more than once a year and if it's an extra check on the payment service, control the rectors on the side of Minfin and MON, then it's a normal law. But as a general conclusion. Until then, reverends.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u156	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u157	until we adopt the basic Higher Education Act, which has been developed, followed up by committee hearings, discussed it in all the regions, we will have a permanent “loose blanket”, we will “paint” and add to existing legislation. I appeal to everyone to put to the vote the Higher Education Act and we will not have problems like today. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u158	Thank you! Mikhailo Chechatov faction of the Party of the Regions. Please, the microphone. From the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u159	Dear colleagues! The bill proposes to introduce a standard whereby the salary for the entire period of education in the institution and the provision of additional educational services, including for retraining and upgrading of personnel, can be adjusted over the course of training for the inflation rate and the increase in minimum wage levels and municipal payments for the previous year. We believe that the bill does not fully agree with the substance of the contractual relationship, which is considered to be a contract if the parties have reached agreement on all the essential terms of the contract, which usually includes the price of a contract to be agreed upon by the parties. In this way, the bill actually creates preconditions for one-sided adjustment to teaching institutions' salaries for learning. This is hardly acceptable, especially in cases where a person has paid the full cost of teaching. The faction of the Party of the Regions proposes to reject the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u160	Thank you. I invite Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! I think when we're talking about higher education, we can talk about that soon as we were a country of total millionaires, because everyone in each pocket had a million coupon-carbovants, so soon we'll be the first country in the world to be the first country of total higher education. This, on the one hand, would be good if really after that education was required. I'll give you the numbers. Today we have the third, fourth level accreditation of 46 million people 351. In Spain, there are 47 million people in 30 colleges. In France, which we often compare and compare with Ukraine, 49 million people -- 78 units -- are enough. Instead of reducing the number of government training courses, the Cabinet of Ministers has recently reduced the number of government contracts by 14,000 this year. They're rectors, I can understand them, and they're looking for earnings from workers who are reducing wages, which are in crisis conditions, where inflation and so on and so forth. No doubt you can’t do that and you haven’t eaten it at all. And I'll give you one official number, and please think about it. I won't make any comments. In the last school year, the maturation certificate of completion of a full secondary school was received, remember the figure, 427 thousand. Students in third, fourth, accreditation levels last year amounted to 425 thousand. Make conclusions. It's good that children have the right to learn, but if we start each semester or year to increase their pay for learning, it's about us, about Parliament, especially about those political powers.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u162	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u163	The political forces that offer it will not say a good word. And I'm surprised the profile committee supports such a wrong decision. Please don't support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u164	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, who insists on the performance? Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u165	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. It is obvious that the adoption of this bill will lead to a sharp increase in school fees. And the money they have to pay will be paid by the children and their parents. And so as a result of the limited number of young Ukrainians who will be deprived of opportunities for higher education and as a result of achieving something in life. The Yulia Tymoshenko bloc is the political power that is always on the side of citizens' interests, including in the social sphere. And for these reasons, I think our faction cannot support this bill because it beats the pockets of Ukrainians. Higher education needs to be addressed, not at the expense of the children and their parents, but rather at the expense of the budget. And that's the way it is. When the majority in the hall, including the Party of Regions, will support the government's proposed bills aimed at increasing government budget revenues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u166	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Act amending article 61 of the Education Act and article 64 of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act, registration number 2162. [[on the conditions of payment of training]] Please vote. [[13:25:18]] For-157. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 1, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 140, Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense – 14, Communists – 0, Litvina Block – 12. The bill was rejected. I am announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law, the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices. [[concerning the use of Braille in the manual on the use of medical devices]] The Health Committee proposes that Yuri Alexandrovich Haydajdawich both as coauthor and as a representative of the committee report on this important bill. Please, Yuri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u167	Reverend Mikola Volodymyrovich, great colleagues! Loss of vision is one of the most important forms of disability, since because of eyesight, up to 93 to 97 percent of environmental information is available. The greater the degree of loss of vision, the more a person is limited in receiving, receiving information, and communicating. A large number of our compatriots who have lost their eyesight can read and actually touch every single letter of the word and read any printed information. According to official statistics, the number of citizens who apply the Braille code in their lives and can read the printed information on medical devices only because of its availability on the original package, is almost constant and fluctuates within 50,000, I emphasize, 50,000. Citizens, of whom about 20,000. The citizens are completely blind. The position of the proposed bill on regulation is aimed at protecting consumer rights, which is one of the priority areas in which Ukraine's legislation is adapted to European Union legislation. The bill proposed changes to the labelling of medicinal products that conform to international law and are harmonized with the provisions of European legislation, which provides that the name of the medicinal product, the dose of the active substance and its medical form should be indicated in Braille on the primary package of the medicinal product. The bill was supported by the Committee on European Integration and the Ministry of Health of Ukraine. In addition, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budgeting on the outcome of its consideration of the bill has decided that the proposed bill will have no impact on the income and expenditure of the budget. The bill's authors' team agrees with the proposal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Committee on Health to change the bill's expiration date, which is why, in the final drafting of the bill, we propose that the 2009 figures be replaced by 2010 figures, i.e. if the bill is adopted as a law, it will become effective as of March 1, 2010. The limitations and problems faced by a person who has lost sight in whole or in part cannot be imagined. To appreciate the complexity of such a person’s life, we simply need to keep living with our eyes closed or in complete darkness. Therefore, honourable colleagues, on behalf of the drafters of the bill, on behalf of the Health Committee, ask you to support the bill, to adopt it as a basis and as a whole as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u168	Thank you, Yuri Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need for discussion? Any suggestions, insistence? I'd like you to sign up for who's against it. For this bill. Please show me. Mikhailo Chechetov, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u169	Dear colleagues! The bill proposes to supplement the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices with a provision that the name of the medical device, its medical form and the dose of the active substance should be duplicated on the external packaging of all Braille medicines that will allow people with visual impairment to read the information. The faction of the Party of the Regions proposes to support this bill both in the first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u170	Thank you. Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u171	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” We really need to look at this problem with our eyes open, and I don't agree with the conclusion of the science-expert government, which calls a fairly small number of people who don't see fully or completely see. We realize that today, more than 50 percent of people who have lost their eyesight are people with diabetes, who, apart from blindness, have an extremely large bouquet of satellite pathology and need constant medical treatment, including for immediate help. Hence, without help, these people cannot maintain a certain quality of life. And so this is a European requirement, and many countries in the European Union and other countries use this practice, indicating on the package the name of the medicine, the form of its release, and the dosage. This is absolutely necessary. And that's why both the committee, and, I think, just before the parliamentary hearings, we have to adopt this law both on a basis and in general in order to facilitate the lives of these categories of people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u172	Thank you. Andrew Shkull, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u173	Dear national MPs, distinguished TV and radio audiences, and listeners! I am, of course, just "for" so that we have this category of people to provide the possibility -- people who can't see -- to read in Braille the name of the drugs, even the composition that is there. But the problem is how much this will increase the cost of medical supplies. On the one hand, we make these medical devices more accessible to a particular category of people, but on the other hand, this will necessarily affect the price. It's a guarantee, because otherwise, with this kind of passion at the moment, it wouldn't be activated, because it's been hanging out for a long time. For example. I think that each of us is abroad and knows that drugs are also being sold there, and how much they cost. For example, in Paris in the fields of Elisha, 40 pieces of Eferalgan's package costs 1 euro, which costs us 40 dollars, the same medicine. For what reasons can someone explain it to me? Suddenly, the money went down, or did the dollar go up all of a sudden? What's the matter? And imagine, if this medical device now costs 40 dollars, when they write it in Braille, it's going to cost at least 60. Well, what do you want to do? And it's going to be the ratio of one to 60. At one point, we may even theoretically have this ratio of a dollar to a euro. Therefore, first of all, all medical devices should be made available to those who need them. It's more affordable when prices go down. And that's why, in principle, I say again for a similar bill. But I can't let people, all the other people, and first of all, the same blind people, they can read, but they can't buy because there's going to be an inaccessible medical tool at their price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u174	Thank you. Dear colleagues, no one insists on the performance? Therefore, we act in harmony with the Rules and suggestions of our committee. Yuri Anatolyevich. Please, Yuri Carmazin, a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u175	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, if we adopt the law as a whole, I see that there are those intentions -- in general, we can't make any amendments. The law is good. I have just one question: how do we solve what we now have in Simferopol, Sevastopol, Odessa, many regions and visitors? They're saying, please make sure you put a letter in, this one that's written is not just in English, but in English and in Russian. At least two more languages. Many European countries do the same. And then it increases the competitiveness of these drugs, because people have taken, there's instructions written in other languages in the nest. For the manufacturer, it costs money, and for the consumer it is not extremely useful, and then there is no overdose of any other medicine. I would like the authors, including the former minister and the very serious MPs, to reflect on this so that we too need to resolve the matter so that we can satisfy our citizens today and ensure their health.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u176	Thank you. Yuri Anatoliyovich, your honors, let's take one step, then let's consult, after the first vote on the basis. I therefore base the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices, registration number 2625, on the basis of the vote. [[concerning the use of Braille in medical instruction]] Please vote. [[13:35:50]] For 370. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the committee is offering to accept as a whole, but I've come to realize that there are warnings here too, haven't I? Anybody got a warning? The school of Andrew gives a warning. And other colleagues. Dear colleagues, I'm afraid I can't. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, me. Do you have a warning? [[B in m in s a l in]] Guys, let's take a minute. Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u177	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! It is quite obvious from the results of the vote that the law has a majority in the room. Protecting the rights of the blind is an extremely important issue. If any of your colleagues have these warnings, we have done so repeatedly, so tell them under the microphone. And if the authors have the ability to count them, they've taken them into account and accepted them. Why waste time? Why delay the adoption of the law rather than solve the problem? Tell me under the stenogram what your warnings are. If the authors take them into account, we vote in general. They don't count, we refer to second reading. And what's important is that we protect people's interests, not for months, we've been building these laws in Parliament's walls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u178	Thank you. Valeriy Suškevitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u179	Thank you. First of all, I want to thank the drafters of the bill that we finally realize that the blind person has the same right to see what they are being treated for and what they accept. There are dozens of very scary cases of blind people taking the wrong medication, and they have had extraordinary consequences. And every day, every week of delays has problems. I support what Deputy Lazko said about the fact that if there is a warning, let's count it now. And it is a law that must be passed, Your Honor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u180	Vladimir Karpuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u181	Vladimir Karpuk. Dear colleagues! At least we have heard the only warning in this room about the possibility of traveling drugs to other categories of people, including those who will use Braille. One of us realizes that the deadline is until 1 March 2010 to adapt Braille production. And the pharmaceutical industry today is too profitable, very profitable, and I realize that if there's some cost, this is a group of authors who studied because we also had a discussion on the committee. Therefore, there will be no concern about the increase in medicine from the introduction of this law. I ask you once again, Mr. Andrew, to withdraw your warnings and to enact this law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u182	Dear colleagues! I heard the only serious warning from Andrew School, let's give him a minute, lady, maybe he changed his mind and then we'll vote. Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! I want to emphasize that we often defend the rights of the disabled at the expense of the disabled themselves, that is, we want to enter Braille knowing that it will make the medicine go away. It'll make the medicine go away. So my proposal, let's now put in this law that it has no impact on pricing and control on the Ukrainian Parliament. In case it gets bigger, because I'm totally. The price increase, the cost of keeping the font, will have to be punished accordingly by those manufacturers who abuse it. Because I have this feeling that they actually want to use Braille to increase the price of their drugs and thus raise their profits. Let it be at your expense to write down in the law that at their expense, drug sellers and manufacturers are able to place Braille there. Only in that case, I think this law has a right to live.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u184	Dear colleagues! If we take such a tolerant position, we will listen to the committee, which first recommends that we replace in the Final Positions instead of 1 January 2010, more precisely 1 March 2009 to replace 1 January 2010. So we're going to have to analyze, think about, calculate and not make it legal, but understanding that normally the Ministry of Health and the Parliamentary Committee have to control the whole thing so that it doesn't lead to any negative consequences. If we accepted that recommendation part and the normative part on January 1, 2010, we would vote in general. I see there's readiness. So I would like to put in general with warnings that we are in the final positions, we are changing first March 2009 to 1 January 2010. Please vote in second reading and in general. [[13:41:26]] For 340. The bill was approved. Dear colleagues, now a very serious problem, should be consulted. We have three bills relating to the elimination of co-operations concerning dual citizenship, and it is interesting that three very serious bills or amendments have been introduced by the three heads of the Supreme Council Committees. Head of the Committee on Human Rights, Zarubinski Oleg Alexandrovich, Sweden, Viktor Dmitrovitch, and Yavorovski Volodymyr Alexanderovich. Our colleagues say that the problem is even more complicated than they imagined and, by the way, the light loss just confirms the complexity of the problem. And they asked them to give them time to consult, to gather together three, three drafters of the bill, to review and transfer on the committee when we had a common position on such a complex problem. Will there be no objection to passing these bills? There's no objection, my friends. Then I am announcing before the review a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on increasing responsibility for corruption, imposing restrictions on the position of government authorities and local self-government of persons convicted of bribery. I invite a member of the committee on the fight against organized crime and corruption and the author of the law, Oleg Volodymyrovich Novikov. Considering that we have him and he represents the committee and, and he speaks, he has the opportunity to speak for four minutes. Do you have Oleg Volodymyrovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u185	Yeah! Here, dear friends! I'm the only one who's been brought a letter that's currently being shipped abroad by our reporter, Oleg Volodymyrovich. I see people here who say it's a disgrace. But dear friends! Let's then, we have no choice, we have to transpose this bill. The next position is the bill of our colleague Portnow, but in the chapter “To be included in the agenda of the session”. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the introduction of an automated documentary system in administrative courts. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the current and important bill. Please vote. [[13:44:16]] For 340. The bill is incorporated and we are considering how decisions were made today in accordance with the reduced procedure. Andrea Portnova to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u186	I think it's going to be correct for Andrew Portnow. Please, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u187	Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich, reverend Adam Ivanovich! The Justice Committee considered the bill and recommended it for a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, the honourable presiding officer! I want to tell you what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u188	Dear colleagues! In fact, the secretariat has just informed me that the committee has not considered the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u189	The committee considered and there was a committee decision. We have a committee decision on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u190	Isn't Sergio Kiwalov the head of the committee? Please give Bondyk's Deputy National Deputy Bondik of the Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u191	The honourable chairman, the honourable colleagues, indeed, we have considered this bill. You know what the urgent need is for the legislative initiative of our national deputies, if there is much to be done before the legal process is improved, because there are many complaints coming. And that's why I'm officially saying that this Andrew Portney bill was considered on the committee. I don't know why the secretariat didn't work, why you don't have a conclusion. But we considered the bill and recommended it for hearing on the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u192	Adam Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, I will not interfere with the consideration or consideration. I'm talking about finding a way out of the situation we're in. You can see that inclusion is in the order of the day. Just getting into the day's work, not the day's work. To ensure that there are no violations, let us put to the vote the following sentence: for today’s consideration of the matter and then everything will be in accordance with the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u194	Yes, please, Mr. Andrew, please, your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u195	I think we can agree to Adam Ivanovich's proposal and put this question to the vote right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u196	Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. Dear colleagues, let us not violate the Rules in this way. Because the Supreme Council of Ukraine has included this issue in the agenda. Now they're saying that the committee's decision is, well, it didn't come to the session room, so I'm going to put in for your consideration a proposal to take up this issue and that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has decided on this issue. I'm putting this proposal to the vote. [[13:48:02]] For 331 Decision taken. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u197	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Your view is that it is proposed to amend some legislation on the introduction of an automated documentary system in administrative courts. What makes it necessary to adopt this bill? Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to give you an example. Look, there's one of the heads of the administrative courts, he's not far from the Supreme Council. He carries with him two "Vertu" phones at a constant cost of more than $10,000 each. And that's what makes it necessary to adopt such a bill. What exactly is being proposed? It is proposed that changes be made to the objective and impartial distribution of cases between judges, the provision of information to natural and legal persons on their status, the centralization of court decisions, approval, other procedural documents, and the preparation of statistics. But the main road is that the head of the court does not depend on the judges to divide matters and to exercise justice more unwarrantedly than they do today. Access to an automated system of court documentation will give judges and staff of the relevant court solely depending on their functions. Things will be distributed by means of a method of reliability, which will be supervised by a computerized system. And for those who do not understand it, proper supervision will be provided by law enforcement agencies. This bill is proposed if you agree, and in general. The committee supported the bill. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Please. Who insists on the performance? Who insists? Please write down who insists. Ivan Kirilenko, faction. Huh? Name, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u199	Chicken.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u200	Ivan Grigorovich, a colleague of Pilpenka’s, reports. Please, it's Philippe's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u201	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I will try to explain to our voters why we are now adopting this law on a simple example. All known fall cases with the Lviv Court of Appeal, where in fact the head of the court created an organized criminal group, which included 10 or 11 judges, who were assembled not to prosecute, but to decide the right cases that they were simply buying in a nearby cafe. And the head of the court distributed these cases, certain orders were made accordingly, and the citizens were really surprised to see why clearly illegal decisions were supported by this court and then in the Supreme Court or Supreme Court the decisions were overturned. Thus, it is this bill that proposes to regulate the system of distribution of cases so that the chief of the court does not recruit judges and write cases between them, but a bill is called upon to ensure that cases are brought before the judges on the basis of a computer program. That's why we're asking the bill to support it if there's no objection. Moreover, I believe that our voters demand that we adopt a bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u202	National MP Voropeyev, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u203	I was just afraid of those last words that the previous speaker had said about the adoption of the law as a whole. Indeed, such a problem exists in our society, unfortunately, and it requires a solution, this problem. And this bill is a step forward. But I think we need to refine it. Why? Because with the help of the same regular officers of the courts, secretaries who will receive documents and register on time or on time, in half an hour or an hour, or after half a day, it will be possible to manage the system. Let us look at this bill to make it. Now we're going to take it on first reading, and then we're going to look at and work on the second reading, and we're going to fix it so that it can't be managed manually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u204	Adam Martinyuk, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, the voters we are hearing, we can advise that we have finally reached the judicial authority, the judicial system that everyone is talking about. You know the grades they're given. It's one step of improvement, but it's not the last step and it's not going to work out. I have a legitimate question, probably like you, and why do the drafters propose a perfectly logical scheme to implement only in administrative proceedings. What, is that the most important thing? What, we have order in other courts and we don't need any control? Why are we taking out only one of them, the administrative courts? Why did not the drafters of the bill immediately suggest that the entire judicial system should implement such an automated system? This is one moment. One second. There are complexities, but these complexities need to be taken into account. The second point, which also relates to the complexity of whether we are ready materially or are ready to provide the courts technically with that system. Because if we just put up a computer, the computers are still there. And right now, I don't think it's handwritten, I think it's printed on computers. This means that software security is needed, protected by a special liaison service, to make it a system so that no one can enter the system into the program. And so let us really, in the first reading, accept, recommend that this not only apply to the administrative courts but also to others and that the introduction of this law be suspended in order to technically prepare itself so that it does not be a second shift from hand to computer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u206	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u207	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. You know, dear colleagues, you. I had the same question as Adam Ivanovich, and I specifically asked the subject of the legislative initiative, the authors of the bill really what the colossal matter was. It turns out that all 4 bills have been introduced, they just go to different codes, and obviously that's the question that we have to adopt today. You know, honourable colleagues, when we say that Ukraine needs an independent power, this same independent authority is not only to the point that it should not depend on the government, nor on the Secretariat of the President, nor on Parliament. It must be independent in its internal structure, in its internal procedure. And it is clear that when it is up to the head of the court to whom he is going to give an advantageous case and to whom he is not giving the matter at all, to whom it is understood and to whom it is not understood, he is asking the question of the dependence of the judges on him directly. And so the cases that we've seen with the names of the judges already known, they are, to some extent, produced by the imperfections of this system. Therefore, on behalf of the Lithuanian Block, I call for the support of this right absolutely legislative initiative. Unfortunately, I understand that since at least two men have said that they do not want to accept in general, it will not be accepted in general. Although this has to be done as quickly as possible, otherwise an independent court is just gonna be a weed, it's gonna be a mirage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u208	Dear colleagues, everyone has spoken. One minute from the committee, please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u209	Yuri Carmazin, I'm the first deputy head of this committee. We have really considered and considered the possibility of introducing other codes. The point is that we need to make changes to the Civil Procedures -- this is a separate code, the Criminal Procedure Code -- a separate code, and the Master's Code -- is also going through a separate process. I mean, there are serious problems here that the computer is simply not going to determine criminal matters if it's on a lot of people and on a lot of volumes. And some things are being considered, you know, for a year, and some years. That's why there's a big, big problem. We are now working on these problems and solving them, but the focus of the committee on reducing the subjective factor, reducing the impact of corruption. And in this direction, we do the things that were said at the parliamentary hearings. The solution is to be accepted only in the first reading, because there are still changes to the Criminal Code. You have to take it in the first reading -- and then you have to work on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u210	Dear colleagues, discussion of the law. What, what? Dear colleagues, they're all here. So I'm voting on the adoption as the basis of the draft law. Dear colleagues, the adoption of the draft Law, registration number 4324, amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to introduce an automated documenting system in administrative courts. Based on the base. Please vote. [[13:58:48]] For 374 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, considering the importance of this law, perhaps we will give the commission to bring it to the next plenary week for consideration, that is, to shorten the deadline for preparation for second reading. Is there no objection? I'm putting this motion to a vote, please. [[13:59:23]] For 346 Decision taken. And the last document, your honor. I ask you to continue your work until this matter is resolved. We need to include in the agenda of the day's session a draft decree amending article 217 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules on the oath of members of the High Council of Justice. Registration number 4376. Please, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u211	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The point is that this bill was related to a draft law that we did not include in the agenda yesterday and did not consider. What are you talking about? The point is that it is now stipulated in the law that for two months a member of the High Council of Justice should take an oath in the Supreme Council. Since we did not support this bill yesterday, it is not logical to change the Rules if we adopt it and so forth. So I urge you not to look at it today, even though it has already been announced, let's put it on. Once again, we did not uphold the law yesterday, there is absolutely no point in amending the regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-05-20-m0.u212	Dear colleagues, at the same time, have been announced on this issue, so I will put to the vote only the inclusion in the agenda, not the consideration. The proposal to include in the agenda of the draft decision to amend article 217 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules on the oath of members of the High Council of Justice is therefore put to the vote. [[Registration number 4376]] Please, Your Honor, identify yourself in the voting process. [[14:01:26]] For two. The decision is not taken. The bill is thus rejected. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention, please, on the outcome of the meeting of the Conciliation Council? We discussed the question, namely, about listening to information about the coal situation, about the coal sector, first of all, about the mining of coal. And so we agreed that the three committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on Industrial Policy, the Committee on Fuel and Energy, the Committee on Housing and Utilities will discuss this issue, prepare appropriate proposals to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and at the Conciliation Council meeting before the plenary session, we will make an appropriate decision on the way in which we will address this issue. The main thing is to make appropriate suggestions. We also considered a coalition involving the creation by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of two temporary commissions of inquiry concerning the substance of the same matter. Since we have not found an agreed decision to be one commission, I will inform you that a decision will be signed on two committees with all the consequences that come from it. We discussed the proposal that next week we would work in plenary mode. But since, more specifically, the scheduled committee meetings, since the deputies planned their work in the districts, we made the appropriate decision that next week the Supreme Council of Ukraine would be working in committees and districts, and the plenary week would be on a fixed schedule for our meeting. Finally, it was discussed that, in connection with the Constitutional Court’s decision, we should decide on the date of the election of the President of Ukraine. We've discussed it on a work-based basis. I would ask the faction to determine its position on the considerations that I have set out, namely, the date of the presidential election on January 17th. To entrust the Committee on State Buildings to work on a specific date that we will set with you, a change to the Presidential Election Act of Ukraine, possibly reducing the term of the presidential campaign from 120 to 90 days. And the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Central Electoral Commission, to ensure proper functioning, i.e. the availability of a voter register before the start of the electoral campaign. After discussion in factions, we will determine whether or not to make a decision. These are all the questions discussed at the Conciliation Council. Dear colleagues! The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. At 3 p.m., there will be parliamentary hearings on medical, health. I would like to take an active part in parliamentary hearings. Tomorrow we'll continue our plenary work at 10 a.m. on schedule for Thursday. Thank you!
