ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:57]] They registered cards in the 402 people’s deputies’ session room. I declare open the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, allow me to provide you with information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary on June 3, 2009. 27 questions on the agenda were considered: Three laws were passed, five bills were adopted on a basis, one bill was sent for re-reading, and four bills were rejected. Dear colleagues, you have a schedule for Thursday, 2009. I see there are some suggestions, some comments. So please write down five minutes to organize our work today on the implementation of the plan for the fourth time. Please record. People's deputies' names on the board, please. Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, faction of "The Yulia Timoshenko".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, there was a faction meeting. We know very well what the situation is in the hall, so since we have so many bills on Thursday, and we are not going to be able to go through all of them, so that we don't open up an unnecessary discussion, and so that we don't get a positive result, the faction proposes or postpone for the next plenary week the three drafts: 0875, 76, 77, to have further discussions with the factions' leaders and have a positive decision in the hall. We're not sure there's going to be a positive decision, and we can't let those laws fly in. That's the first thing we're offering. Or the term, or, Vladimir Mikhailovich, Vladimir Mikhailovich, let me continue for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u3	Yes, yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u4	We ask that we either cancel, or without consideration, without a report send for the second reading again, i.e. to keep these bills, three in a row -- 75, 76, 77. And the Law on the All-Ukrainian Referendum. We're not sure we can get a proper number of votes. We would also like him to be transferred to the next plenary week -- that's what the faction is proposing to save time and not open up too much discussion. Thank you. Please support your colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u5	Next, please, who signed up? National Deputy Teshenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u6	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, a respected colleague, because we have a considerable amount of debt, we will propose that the following week be a plenary one. And the request to all of us is in factions to work and support us in this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u7	Yes, Shevchenko Andrey, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u8	I support the two previous speakers, and I would also like to go back to the proposal -- remove today's three anti-corruption bills to bring them into the hall prepared and get a guaranteed result. And he also pointed out that the 1374 referendum bill is so understood that he's not ready today to consider the second reading, so please consider removing these four bills from the agenda today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u9	Valentin Zubov, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u10	Vladimir Mihajlovich, you will laugh, but I will support the statement of all three of my colleagues. Why? Because, indeed, these three important anti-corruption bills caused a very violent reaction by the people's deputies at the faction meeting, there was a very active debate, and I support the faction leader's proposal that these bills should be postponed until later. At the same time, I support the statement made by my colleague Stashenko, in the light of the vast number of bills that await consideration, we need to take a decision today. Well, anyway, this week, we'll have the next plenary. The following week, rather than working on committees, the plenary room will be open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u11	National MP Lukyanchuk
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u12	Thank you. I also support the opinions of previous speakers, or my faction colleagues, and I want national MPs, colleagues. The chairman also took that view into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? With regard to the proposals for organizing our work today, namely to postpone the consideration of drafts. [[Registration numbers 0875, 0876, 0877]] Is there no objection? Then we're going to postpone them to the next plenary. Please, Adam Martinyuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u14	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we are the third or fourth time we have suspended these bills. Again, I remind those who listen to us. Bills aim to combat corruption. If there is such an offer, he has the right of any of the national deputies to make such an offer, but if you carry it, defer it, so please, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, put it to the vote of the session hall. Let the session room decide, not just one or two deputies. We insist on voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. Then I ask you to have the Supreme Council back up, because otherwise we'll work alone and we won't make a positive decision. These laws are very relevant. We need to make a positive decision, that is to support these draft laws. For them to be processed, it is likely that they need to be termated. So I'm going to put to the vote a proposal from the MPs to move the consideration of Bills 0875, 0876, 0877 to the next plenary week. Please vote. [[10:10:32]] For 314 Decision taken. Likewise, respectable colleagues refer to the draft law prepared for consideration in the second reading of the U.S. referendum. I would like to vote on the postponement of the draft law, please vote. Tell them to vote. I'd like to vote on the referendum. [[10:11:10]] For 317 Offers are supported. Now, honourable colleagues, four national deputies have expressed themselves for next week to be plenary. So I suggest we do this. Just a minute. Just a minute. The draft ruling, please, will be considered by the Regulatory Committee, then the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take a decision by voting. When you're ready, then please let's look at it, well, from the voice I'm not putting it to the vote. We need a draft of the appropriate decision. Please. Now, honourable colleagues, two factions -- the faction of the Party of the Regions and the faction of the Company -- are demanding, in accordance with the requirements of the Rules, a recess and a conciliatory council to reconcile the positions of factions. So, should we call it a break? [[B in m in s a l in]] Will You Give Motives? Well, please. Dear colleagues, the faction is ready to make a statement, which calls for a recess so that we can continue our work. The Turmanov People's Deputies, please. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, I spoke from this rostrum last week and raised the problems of miners, wages. Today, there are thousands of miners in Parliament, I stress, Ukrainian miners, who are in Kiev for the third day, seeking a meeting with the Prime Minister. Question number one, we need to address the issue of taking coal from these three mines. Today, the question has to be raised by the Cabinet of Ministers, the Minister of the Coal Industry, is private mines. I'm telling you, they're here: they're two rental mines and one really small but private mine. I recall that on 13 November last year, the meeting of the Coordinating Council, which was held by Prime Minister Timoshenko Yulia Vladimirovna, was decided, the 17th paragraph states that all the enterprises of the country that we have in Ukraine are shipping the coal obtained through the State company Coal of Ukraine, for which they receive money and pay their wages. Today, there is a problem, these mines are now demanding that we take the monthly rate of coal, which is 60,000 tons. They say no. Then I ask the question, and I ask everyone: and as in the five months of this year, at the request of the UK Coal Group, one amount of coal has been declared, and at the power plant, it's a completely different amount -- 2.8 million tons -- that's coal, that's underground shadow, and we're talking about 60,000. The fact is that these mines that are here today are paying taxes to all the foundations, paying rent, nothing to the State. The only question the miners ask is, give us a sale of coal, the monthly standard of 4.5 thousand miners today has made our government a hostage without work, without pay. That is why I am addressing you, Vladimir Mihajlovich, accept the working group that we have formed with the representatives of these labour groups, listen to us and I ask you to support the coalition that is so called today in this Parliament, to hold and meet with the Prime Minister of the working group from the representatives of these labour groups. If that's not done, I don't know what these miners are going to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, for the suggestions made in the statement made by the National Deputy Turmanov, let's do this. We'll have a proper meeting at 12 o'clock. How about 12 o'clock? Let's do 11 o'clock, shall we? At 11 o'clock, I invite the heads of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy to this meeting, as well as the Fuel and Energy Complex. Please, let's have an 11-hour meeting there. So we don't discuss the question, well, how can I give my word, dear colleagues. We agreed that someone was speaking. Dear colleagues, let us turn to the issues set out in the schedule for the fourth time. We now have to consider a draft decision on Parliamentary hearings on "The situation of Ukrainian-Romanian relations and the protection of Ukraine's national interests". At the same time, in exchange for the draft decision, honourable colleagues have made another decision to hold a joint meeting of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the topic “On the Status of the Ukrainian-Romanian Relations”. So there's this proposal for a committee to consider, the committee to consider this draft decision, to make its verdict, and we're going to vote on it. [[One minute]] The point is, let the committees determine. The point is, let the committee meet today during a break and consider this matter. Dear colleagues, we can't go on like this. Again, I would like to say that there are appropriate requirements for the Rules. I ask the committee to take a look at the draft of this ruling, who should be invited to attend this meeting and we will make a decision, not today, tomorrow. But we will. Is there no objection? The same applies to the draft decision to create a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the sharp decline in industrial production volumes, the crisis in the basic industries of Ukraine, the exacerbation of the socio-economic situation. [[Registration number 4506]] At the same time, the Committee on Rules and Ethical Affairs believes that it is necessary to return the draft decree to the subjects of the right of legislative initiative without its inclusion in the agenda of the session and the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Therefore, there is an invitation for the authors of this initiative to work with the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to make a positive decision. Is there no objection? Thank you. Let us turn to the second reading of the bills. The draft Law on the structure, mandate and the legal and economic regime of the National Agricultural and Agriculture Association, Masandra, is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations of Jury Mikola Volodymyrovich. Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u18	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The revised draft Law on the structure, mandate and characteristics of the legal economic regime of the Masandra National Industrial and Agrarian Complex, designed to preserve the integrity of Masandra's unique property complex, is being submitted to the second reading. [[Registration number 0897]] The Masandra National Agrarian Association, the only oldest enterprise in the country's classical production industry, is made up of 9 companies formed in 1921. The total number of people working together is more than 3 and a half thousand, and in the summer season, the number increases to 5,000. The “Masandra” brand is well known outside Ukraine, and its wines have been recognized not only in the internal market but also in international markets. Up to 80 per cent of Ukraine's exports of quiet wines are “Masandry” wines. The main unique production of Masonry is its own raw material base, without which there can be no high - quality dairy production. The area of the unique land plots consists of 11,000 hectares, 4,000 acres [4,000 ha] below the vineyards. These most valuable lands are located between 20 and 300 meters [20 and 300 m] above sea level. And I'll draw your attention, every hectare where the vine grows is of great value. If you multiply the land area of Masandra into a one-hundred-dollar fixed area, you'll get over $220 million. In recent years, however, in recent years more than 200 hectares [200 ha] of land have been decommissioned in rural areas of the South Bank of Crimea. Unfortunately, such a negative trend is increasing. When the bill was drafted, there were 6 amendments to the second reading, a total of 42 amendments, 37 of which were taken into account in whole or in part, 5 were rejected. The committee thanks the Ukrainian National Deputies Beavenko Valerija Fedorovich, Lukyanchuk Ruslan Valeriyovich, Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, and Tereshuk Sergey Mikolayovich, who made their proposals for the bill. Amendments 16, 17 concerning the sale of Masandra’s own products have been rejected. We believe that Masandra should be united on her own. cannot implement its own production into retail trade, since it is engaged in the production and processing of grapes. The amendment of 18 National Deputy Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyevich on the limitation of the rights to self-regulatory exit from the merger of enterprises that are part of the Masandra merger will contribute to the self-regulatory withdrawal of land and the actual destruction of the Masandra National Union and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u19	Mikolo Volodymyrovich, you'll still have the opportunity to answer the questions, if there's a question, so I suggest that you go straight to the proposals that came from the Ukrainian National Deputies to the second reading. Amendment of the First People's Deputy of Jury. The committee suggests that we take it into account. Is there a denial? There's no objection. Amendment of 2nd People's Deputy of Jury Mikoli Volodimirovic. Partially counted. Mikola Volodymyrovich agrees. The 3rd Amendment of the People's Deputy Be Bevanko. The committee suggests that we take it into account. No objection to MPs? None. Amendment No. 4 of the Lukyanchuk People’s Deputy Edited. Is there a denial of a national MP? There's no objection. The Fifth Amendment of the People's Deputy of Carmazin. Partially counted. Yuri Anatolyovich, pleased with the editorial? Yes. 6th Amendment of the People's Chamber of Jury. Counted. Any objections to the deputies? None. The 7th Amendment of the People's Deputy of the Jury. Counted. Is there a denial of the National Deputies in the light of the amendment? None. 8th Amendment of the People's Chamber of Jury. Is there any objection to the amendment? None. The 9th amendment of the People's Chamber of Jury. Partially counted. Mikola Volodymyrovich, agree. Do the deputies have objections? None. The 10th amendment of the Bebezenka People's Deputies. Is there any objection to the amendment? None. 11th Amendment of the Lukyanchuk People's Deputy. Is there a miscalculation? None. The 12th amendment of the People's Chamber of Jury. Is there a miscalculation? None. The 13th amendment of the People's Chamber of Jury. Is there a denial to count? None. The 14th Amendment of the People's Chamber of Jury. Is there a denial? None. 15th. Is there a denial? 16th. Is there a denial? None. The 17th amendment of the Lukyanchuk People's Deputy. Declined. The national MP insists. Please microphone for the Lukyanchuk People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u20	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I very much ask you to support this amendment in the plan so that the National Industrial and Agriculture Association will be able to self-manage its products so that there are no intermediaries so that all the profits from the implementation of the product belong to the enterprise that manufactures the product. And also, in this amendment, the following fact is also specified: the trade mark that belongs to the intermediary. The trade mark must belong to the Masandra National Production Union. So I am very insistent on this amendment. Dear colleagues, I very much ask you to support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u21	Mikola Volodymyrovich, your point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u22	I don't deny it. The committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u23	A vote is taken on amendment No. 17 of the Lukyanchuk People’s Deputies. People's deputies please identify themselves. [[10:26:18]] For 245 The correction is counted. Amendment No. 18 of the Karmazin People's Deputy is dismissed. Please, microphone to the People's Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u24	Yuri Carmazin. Honourable National Deputies, the honourable Head of the Committee, I ask the question of removing part four of article 2, which reads: “The enterprises that form part of the Masandra merger do not have the right to leave the compound without the consent of the unification, to unite their activities on voluntary grounds with other operators and to decide on the cessation of their activities.” [[I'm paying attention to you.]] Because, in accordance with Part Four of the Economic Code, the enterprise is a legal person, and Article 118 of the Code states that the merger of enterprises is an economic organization made up of two or more enterprises for the purpose of coordinating their production, scientific and other activities to do joint economic and social work. Thus, this amendment is in line with the requirements of the Code of Masters, and I am asking questions about its deletion. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u25	Mikolo Volodymyrovich, the committee's arguments on the rejection of the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u26	The point is, if we're creating a national union, whose goal for the nationals is to maintain integrity, and I'm talking about what is attractive today is land, and if we give such a lift out, then there's no point in this law at all. We won't save it then, the bill loses its essence. Do you understand? So the committee has considered and proposed a stand-alone solution to the merger, it is said that it will contribute to land dissipation and the actual destruction of national acquisitions – “Masandra”. Why this amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u27	A vote is taken on amendment No. 18 of the People's Deputy Karmazin. People's deputies are requested to identify themselves. [[10:28:42]] For-13. Correction not supported. The 19th amendment of the People's Chamber of Jury. Is there a miscalculation? None. The 20th amendment of the Bevanka People's Deputy. Is there a miscalculation? None. 21st Amendment of the Lukyanchuk People's Deputy. Is there a miscalculation? None. The 22nd Amendment of the People's Deputy of Tereshuk. Is there a denial to count? None. The 23rd amendment of the People's Chamber of Jury. Is there a miscalculation? None. The 24th amendment of the Lukyanchuk People's Deputy was rejected. Is the MP insisting? No, he doesn't insist on correction. 25th Amendment of the People's Chamber of Jury. Is there a miscalculation? None. The 26th amendment of the Lukyanchuk People's Deputy. Is there a miscalculation? None. The 27th amendment of the Bebezenka People's Deputies. Do you have any objection to the Beazenka amendment? Microphone to the People's Deputy Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u28	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, Mr. Chairman of the committee! In the first reading, we wrote that the alienation of immovable property and enterprises belonging to the Masandres are being carried out according to the legislation in force. The 26th amendment stated that according to the law we have changed, recorded absolutely correctly. 27 writes that the order established by law is in line with the NGO Supervisory Board "Masandra". That is, the Governing Council is above the law and is in a special situation. In my opinion, this is totally unacceptable in terms of legislative technology. In that proposal, which is the next one I'm going to propose, I was asking the question that, according to the Ukrainian State Property Fund, as far as the land and the state property are concerned, but somehow we don't have it counted, but taken into account in this way with the supervisory board, which, in my opinion, is absolutely not to be here. That's why I'm here.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u29	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. The situation is that the final settlement will be with the State Property Fund. And as the Cabinet of Ministers provides for the formation and existence of the Statute of the Supervisory Board, once decisions have been taken and a review of the Supervisory Board, which will include members of the Government, members of the Departments of Profiles, it will be decided that this proposal is in line with the National Unity Strategy, then it will be agreed with the Property Fund. So the board of directors is not going to be after the Assets Fund, and after the Supervisory Board, they're going to be doing the work. And supervised. Right. Let's rephrase the words then. Well, the "supervisory board" and the fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u30	Thank you for the argument. National MP Carmazin insists on voting in favour of the 27th Amendment? Are you insisting? Yeah? The vote is amended by the 27th National MP Bebzenka. The committee counted it in part. Please be sure to support the committee's editing. [[10:32:37]] For a hundred and Correction not supported. The 28th amendment of the People's Deputy, Carmazin, is partially counted. Yuri Anatolyovich agrees with the editorial? It's okay. 29th Amendment of the People's Chamber of Jury. Is there a miscalculation? None. 30th Amendment of the Lukyanchuk People's Deputy. Is there a miscalculation? None. 31st Amendment of the People's Chamber of Jury. Is there a miscalculation? None. The 32nd Amendment of the People's Deputy of Carmazin. Is there any objection to the amendment? None. The 33rd amendment of the Lukjarchuk People's Deputy. Is there a denial to count? None. The 34th amendment of the People's Chamber of Jury was rejected. Are you insisting, Mikola Dmitrovich? Don't insist. 35th Amendment of the People's Chamber of Jury. Is there a denial to count? 36th Amendment of the People's Chamber of Jury. Is there a denial to count? None. The 37th amendment of the Bebezenka People's Deputies. Is there a denial to count? None. 38th Amendment of the People's Chamber of Jury. Is there a denial to count? There's no objection. 39th Amendment of the People's Chamber of Jury. Is there a denial to count? None. 40th Amendment. Is there a denial to count? None. 41st Amendment, is there a objection? The 42nd Amendment of the People's Deputy Bevanka, is there a denial? None. So we've considered all of the proposals that came from the Ukrainian National Deputies in drafting the law. You were supported by the proposals that today voted on changing the committee’s recommendations. I am voting on the second reading of the draft Law on the Structure, Power and Specificity of the Legal and Economic Regime of the National Industrial and Agrarian Association, Registration No. 0897. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u31	And in general. [[10:35:12]] For 314
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u32	Decision taken. Mikola Volodymyrovich, approved today during the second reading, was not supported by the committee in the session hall; and one amendment, which was rejected by the committee, was taken into account. In your view, is there a need in your third reading for all articles of the law to be reconciled?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u33	In general, there is an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u34	Is there no such thing? I would like to vote on the adoption of the entire draft Law on the Structure of the Legal, Economic and Property Code of the National Association of Agriculturals, Masandra, registration number 0897. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:36:06]] For 340. Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u35	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u36	A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on fertility protection is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 2626]] Reports the head of the Committee’s subcommittee on agrarian policy and land relations, Valérie Fedorovich Bevanko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u37	The President-in-Office of the People's Parliament, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, at its meeting on 3 March 2009, reviewed and adopted, on the basis of draft laws of Ukraine amending certain Ukrainian legislation on soil fertility conservation, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies, Tereshuk and Lithuania, and on amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts on soil fertility conservation, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and entrusted the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the task of agrarian policy and land relations to work on the proposed bills, taking into account the observations and proposals made by the subjects of the law of the legislative initiative, and to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on agrarian policy and land relations. [[Registration number 2626]] [[Registration number 3338]] The committee prepared and presented for consideration by the Ukrainian National Deputies a comparative table with an agreed bill, which was based on a bill adopted by a majority of the votes. [[Registration number 2626]] In preparing the bill for second reading, 29 proposals were made from legislators, most of them counted, others counted editorially, nine rejected, since they do not apply to the substance of the law. The provisions of the bill are taken into account in the work of 2626. [[Registration number 3338]] The chief legal office called for a bill without notice. In view of this, we propose to adopt the prescribed bill in second reading and generally as a law. [[Registration number 2626]] Thank you for your attention. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u38	Thank you, Valery Fedorovich. Amendment No. 1 of the Bevanka People's Deputy, is there a denial? None. 2nd Amendment. Is there a denial? None. 3rd Amendment. Is there a denial? None. Four. Is there a denial? None. 5th Amendment. Is there a denial? None. Six? The amendment of the Lukianchuk People’s Deputy, the Committee suggests that it be rejected. The National MP agrees with the committee's decision? It's okay. Is the 7th amendment a denial? None. The 8th amendment is a denial? None. The 9th amendment of the Karmazin People's Deputy has been rejected. Is Yuri Anatolyovich insisting? People's deputy Karmazin's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u39	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I propose a new item entitled “Transitional positions” to read as follows: “For the period until 1 January 2012, the requirements of section 4 of Article 22 of this Code apply only to owners and users who use agricultural agricultural land for a total area of more than 5 hectares.” [[Not the 15th year, as it's written now.]] So far, we're writing, "which are using more than 100 hectares." So it expands, I think, the boundaries. And I would ask you to consider this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u40	Please, your argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u41	In this case, 100 hectares are provided by the Ukrainian Codex on Earth. Therefore, our land committee voted in favour of rejecting the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u42	There is an amendment to the vote number 9 of the People's Deputy Karmazin. Take off the vote, please. Additional arguments from the People's Deputy Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u43	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. I want to say that the need for such a requirement is due to the fact that the absence of land control mechanisms systematically disrupts the production of crops such as rape, sunflower, which has resulted in a 25-30 percent decrease in the humus in our Blacklands. In order to make a positive change, it is necessary to speed up earth’s inventory, agrochemical testing, and proper harvesting. In general, the rules of sifting violate property that does not have its own land, and they rent land that is up to 5 hectares [5 ha] in size. That's why I'm asking the question of reduction, Your Honor, it's done for the better. Please support, that's the motive I'm putting in to support this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u44	The point is that the order of these changes is regulated by a very different bill. So the committee against this amendment, which has a very strong impact on it. The Earth Code cannot be regulated at all by such amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u45	There is an amendment to the vote number 9 of the People's Deputy Karmazin. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:42:23]] Z-11. The amendment of the Karmazin People's Deputy is not supported. At the 10th Amendment, is there a miscalculation? None.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u46	It's counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u47	The 11th amendment of the Lukyanchuk People's Deputy does not insist. The 12th amendment of the Lukyanchuk People's Deputy. Don't insist. The 13th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Twacha. Is there a miscalculation? None. 14th Amendment. Is Lukyanchuk the National MP insisting? Don't insist. 15th Amendment. National MP Lukyanchuk Edited. Is there a miscalculation? None. 16th Amendment. Is there a miscalculation? None. 17th Amendment. Is there a denial? The 18th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Carmazin. Is Yuri Anatolyovich insisting? Microphone, please, National Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u48	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to hear the committee's opinion on why this amendment cannot be taken into account when it comes to increasing responsibility. I propose that article 55 reads as follows: “The use of agricultural land for agricultural production without the development and approval of land-based projects, which will provide for the ecological and economic justification of the land-use sector and the organization of the land-uses, or the arbitrary deviation from such projects, entails a fine imposed on citizens from 50 to 100 untaxed minimum incomes of citizens, natural persons, entrepreneurs and officials from 300 to 500 non-taxable minimum incomes of citizens.” It is practically very similar to the amendment that was adopted in the first reading. And somehow the committee is changing its line. I want to understand the logic of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u49	This amendment does not, in the opinion of the committee, apply to the substance of the bill. So we rejected this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u50	There is an amendment to the vote number two of the Karmazin People's Deputies. I'd like to make a statement. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:44:49]] For -6 Correction not supported. National MP Carmazin proposes to return to amendment number 17 of Bebazenka’s National MP, whom the committee recommended to support. Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u51	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, the text of the law adopted in the first reading recorded the addition of the article of the Code on Administrative Offences by an amendment designed to protect our land today and for some reason. It was accepted, that is, the Supreme Council determined that it was right in its foundation. Now the committee of some kind that's proposed is rejecting this part and destroying it from here, I mean, I'm against taking the 17th amendment into account. Please place her acceptance to confirm the hall. Because the first reading correctly adopted amendments to the law on the Code of Administrative Offences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u52	Please explain to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u53	The point is that the proposed new part of article 55 of the Code of Administrative Offences is to be rejected and included in the first of the offences defined in the article. Article 211 of the Ukrainian Code of Land. So this goes to Mr. Carmazin's proposal goes into a section of the Earth code. We can't break the Earth Code right now on account of these amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u54	A vote is taken on amendment No. 17 of the People's Deputies of Bebazenka. The committee suggests that we take it into account. People's deputies please identify themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u55	Please vote. It was counted before. Please vote in the Chamber. [[10:46:51]] For-45
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u56	Correction not supported. 21st amendment of the Bebezenka People's Deputies. Is there no objection? 22nd. 23rd. 24th. None. 25th. Is there any objection to the amendment of the People's Deputy Carmazin? None. 26th. Is there a denial? None. 27th. People’s Deputies Lukyanchuk Is Lukyanchuk the National MP insisting? No, it's not. 28th. People’s Deputies Lukyanchuk Is the National MP insisting? No, it's not. The 20th amendment was a vote. Regarding Amendment 20, please microphone of the People's Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u57	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Chairman, we just missed the 20th amendment. I'm speaking to the people's deputies, and we've been asked to amend article 254 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. I have formulated and suggested that you put it in such an editorial form, and I believe that as one of those who worked most on the Ukrainian Criminal Code, I have allowed myself to put it this way: “Free use of land, if it has caused a prolonged decline or loss of fertility, the removal of agricultural land, the washing of the rubber layer, the violation of the soil structure, is punishable by a fine of 3,000 untaxed minimum incomes of citizens and the confiscation of proper land areas” and “or by restricting the right to hold certain positions, or to engage in certain activities for up to 3 years, or without such”. In my view, this will increase the responsibility of those who do not respond properly to our mother earth and will contribute to the responsibility for preservation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u58	Valerius Fedorovich, please give an argument on the Committee's rejection of this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u59	According to the committee, this amendment cannot be adopted in this bill because it refers to very strong fines. A committee against the introduction of such an amendment into the Criminal Code of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u60	Amendment No. 20 of the Karmazin People’s Deputies applies to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:49:47]] For-7. Correction not supported. The second reading vote on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on soil fertility protection and amending some Ukrainian legislation on soil fertility. [[Registration number 2626]] I'd like to make a statement. [[10:50:28]] For 277 Decision taken. Is there a need to work on the third reading, Valery Fedorovich? Is there a need to work?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u61	The Committee's point is that the bill is set to be passed as a law as a whole. Please vote in general as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u62	I asked you a question because one of the committee's proposals is not taken into account, is it not balanced by the law? If you're sure that we can accept it so that we don't come back, we'll put it to the vote in general right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u63	This amendment, which was not adopted in the vote, does not balance the law, so the law can be passed in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u64	There is a vote on the adoption of the whole draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on soil fertility protection and amending some Ukrainian legislation on soil fertility conservation. [[Registration number 2626]] I'd like to make a statement. [[10:51:50]] For 389 The law's been passed. Thank you. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on Irrigated Agriculture]] [[Registration number 2632]] The rapporteur is Sergey Mikolaiovich Ribuk, deputy head of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u65	Thank you. On March 31st of this year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted, on the first reading, the Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws, which proposes to amend three laws: “Concession”, “On Land Melioration” and “Promoting the development of domestic machinery for agri-industry complex”. [[on the development of irrigation]] The proposed changes aimed at improving the financial security of construction, reconstruction, and financial exploitation of meliority systems, which will allow for an expansion of their impact, will improve relations in the field of irrigation. With your permission, I would like to remind people before the vote that in the process of reforming the agricultural sector of the economy, the internal self-sustainment systems were included in the list of objects that are not subject to privatization. With a view to their preservation in 2003, amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Collective Agriculture were adopted, as well as the envisaged free transfer of those systems to municipal property. That is, more than 90 percent of domestic melioritative systems have been adopted to balance local councils today. The adoption of amendments to the Act on Concessions, in our view, allows the authorities of local self-government, on the basis of a constitutional contract, to grant a legal or physical person between 10 and 50 years' duration the right to build and operate internal metrological systems. So if we adopt this law, then the tenant who rents the land has to take and meliorate the concession system, first of all, which is not used for a long time, but has not lost his potential and does not need a substantial amount of additional funds to recover. The second reading, as you can see from the comparative table, came up with three suggestions, and they're all three included. I just want to draw your attention to the fact that your reporter, National Deputy Ribub, has made a proposal, and it's considered that the construction, reconstruction and operation of melio-orientative systems and individual objects of their engineering infrastructure, has been a mistake, we need to report on the operation of intra-economic melio-orative systems. And it's in the concession that we have to pass on to the intra-economic melioritative systems. I see Alexander Mikolayovich Tkachenko looking at me. And we also discussed it with him, because if we give the concessions the central highways, of course, it's a monopoly, it's going to be a loss and a complex situation in the use of meliority systems. I think this might be an opportunity to discuss amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u66	Thank you, Sergey Mikolayovich. Three amendments to the Law were made by the people’s deputies Krutz, Seminoga, and Ribuk. The committee proposes to take all the amendments into account. Are there any objections to the national MPs in the light of any of the three amendments? There's no objection. I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and generally as a bill of the bill amending certain laws of Ukraine on the field of irrigation. [[Registration number 2632]] I'd like to make a statement. [[10:56:18]] For-286 Decision adopted, law approved. A draft Law on the Identification and Registration of Animals is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 3008]] Sergey Mikolaiovich Ribuk reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u67	. Member States, the draft Ukrainian Animal Identification and Registration Act, prepared by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on agrarian policy, land relations to second reading, is being submitted to your consideration. The draft law was discussed at the meeting of the Committee on May 12, this year, and it was decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it be accepted on second reading and in general. In the drafting of the bill, 17 proposals were made by national deputies, most of which were not taken into account. accounted for, not only 4. Well, first and foremost, there are no proposals in this case taken into account by Comrade Carmazin for inclusion in the Single National Register of National Tribal Register Animals and for the inclusion of tribal certificate certificates in identification documents. Why? Because we have the Ukrainian Law on Tribal Affairs, which regulates the order of conduct of the National Tribal Register, this is article 1, and defines the concept of a national tribal register as an information database on tribal herds that meet the requirements for registration. That is, taking into account the amendment made by your esteemed colleague Karmazin, it is more likely that we will be talking about changes to the Law on Tribal Affairs in animal agriculture, and that will be the case. Also, the proposals of Deputy Carmazin to article 10 of the bill, which provides for the deletion of section 1 of article 10 of the bill and full funding from the State Budget for the free provision of services for the identification of cattle. It's a really complicated question, and we need to compromise here. First. When it comes to registration, identification of large cattle cows and so forth, and when it's first carried out, it's defined here and that the state is completely 100 percent funded by the peasant. The Commission shall be When it is said that after we started this work in 2003, we move on to identification and pigmeat, horses, sheep, and sheep, of course, the state cannot afford all of these costs, since almost 600 million dollars will go to the sums. However, if now, as the bill suggests, we find that the funds are allocated to this system in the following way. From the State budget, it will be 275 million for cattle and partially pigs when the first registration goes and the owners’ costs are 324 million. I want to stress not so many MPs when all of our agricultural workers working in this area, that we shouldn't be out there looking for an economy of 10, 15, 20 dollars, but for.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u68	Sergey Mihajlovich, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u69	Very important, let me just say 30 more seconds. is that if we implement this system, only then will Ukraine be able to export meat and meat products. Only when it is adapted to European. And it's only then that we can at the end of the day, release artificial price retention for meat raw material and for agricultural production in general, so that it's good quality, it's registered, it's identified, it's suited to all parameters. Then the main cost should go to the peasants by increasing the price of what it's worth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u70	Thank you, Sergey Mikolayovich. Dear colleagues, five amendments to the draft law are made by the national deputy Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, four of whom are rejected. I suggest, with your permission, that we first consider these amendments that the committee is proposing rejections. Is there no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u71	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u72	Please change the number 2 of the Karmazin People's Deputy. Yuri Anatolyevich, do you insist? People's deputy Karmazin's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u73	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, the point is that the only national register of animals, I suggest the second part of the first item in this edition: The only state-owned register of animals is an automated informational system consisting of a national tribal register that provides for the collection, storage, storage and processing of data on identified animals, their owners, their holdings, tribal activities in animal production, housing, slaughter, disposal, destruction, destruction of such animals, which will reduce costs and create a single State register of main agricultural holdings. And the actual text says it's an electronic database of identified animals. So this is about creating the National Tribal Register, which is exactly what will get us out so that we can go abroad and work for ourselves. So I don't understand why the committee was in charge of rejecting it. I agreed with the scientists, the best scientists in Ukraine. And I'd like you to listen to my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u74	Please explain, Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u75	Thank you for your attention to the bill, but I will repeat that the state has and has since the founding of our nation a tribal register. And today it's about the registration, the identification of animals of the commercial, industrial, manufacturing origin of all that exist. And the National Tribal Register is a separate system that is regulated, financed and controlled by the state. And this tribal registry goes separately in the Tribal Law. So to identify, to mix these concepts, it's going to be wrong in terms of zootechnical, technological, zootechnical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u76	The vote is amended as number 2 of the People's Deputy Karmazin. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:03:21]] For-119 Correction not supported. Amendment number 4, Yuri Anatoliyovich, do you agree with the editor? There is no insistence on Amendment 4. Amendment No. 12 of the People's Deputies of Carmazin. Do you insist, Yuri Anatolyovich? No, it doesn't. Amendment No. 15 of the Karmazin People's Deputies. Is he insisting? Number 15, the amendment of the People's Deputy Carmazin. He doesn't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u77	They are related to the same question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u78	Thus, the amendments proposed by the national MP Carmazin, who the committee recommended not to take into account, we voted one, and the rest of the deputies do not insist. There's an amendment number 17 of the people's parliament of Krutz, which the committee proposes to reject. Dear colleagues, I ask you to read what this amendment is, I think there's either a technical error here, or something in the committee has gone unheeded on this proposal. Because I remind you that today we have June 4, 2009.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u79	I can say that we can accept and consider this amendment, since it is clear from the Budget Code and today it is June.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u80	It needs to be taken into account because we cannot make up for the past life we have experienced.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u81	I agree with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u82	I'm putting to the vote amendment number 17 of the people's deputy Krutz, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u83	Let's support it. [[11:05:10]] For 336
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u84	Correction supported. As for the amendments the committee proposes to take into account. What are some of the amendments that deny the national deputies of Ukraine? There's a denial. Please, what's the correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u85	There, may I see the people's deputy Gureev?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u86	Please, the microphone of the people's deputy Gureyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u87	This refers to the 14th amendment, the text reads: “Part Three of Article 10 delete”. The correction is counted, but the final text is not deleted. I was good at it, and for the transcript, I want to say that we need to make some changes. If the amendment is taken into account and it is taken into account at the committee meeting, then starting with the words “at the expense of the State budget or at the expense of the State budget” and ending with the words “animal identification and registration”, which is part of the third article 10 to be deleted in the final edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, amendment 14 of the Gureev People’s Committee recommends that it be taken into account. There are no objections to national MPs. So I ask you to bring the text into line with the committee's decision and with the point.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u89	It's for protocol.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u90	from the point of view of the national deputies of Ukraine. Are there any other amendments that the committee proposes to take into account? None. Is it? Please, National Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u91	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! The bill has been completed, but its adoption in general will be complicated, even if there are amendments, by the Chief Legal Authority on three pages. And by generalizing here many articles, including articles 1, 5, 8, 9, 12, they talk about substantial editorial, technical and legal revisions to violate the requirements of the Constitution, particularly the 85th, where it comes from referring to the authority of the government of what is, does not belong to its authority. And the general offer is for re-reading. So I want these things to work out in some way and now to express the opinion of the committee on accounting, because that's not how we can adopt a law that goes against existing bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u92	Thank you. If we look at when we just voted for the law to go into effect properly from January, the vast majority of the amendments to the Law Department are counted. So we don't have any sense of wasting time and money to reread the second reading. And in this case, I agree that the law has been passed. And we have now taken into account by voting our amendment after the deadline for the entry into force of almost all the Legal Department.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u93	Please note the microphone of the Lukyanchuk People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u94	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues! There is one small nuance, and this bill applies only to large productions, which on an industrial basis produce the agricultural origin of the animal origin itself, and this applies to individual agricultural enterprises, i.e. private agriculture, if that is the case. That's what the data says. In its sixth amendment, I am interested in the fact that “it is prohibited to implement and purchase animal products derived from animals not identified, registered in accordance with the law”. This means that a peasant who fed a calf or a cow cannot sell an excess of his produce at the market without getting a passport. Moreover, this passport is obtained by a peasant on his own account, not by the state. And that's why I think our population, which is engaged in the production of individual agricultural products, i.e. peasants, rural people, will tell us very much "thank you" for this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u95	Please, Sergey Mikolayovich, your Annotation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u96	In fact, both they and the entire Ukrainian people will say “thank you” because, after the adoption of this bill, a respected colleague, there will be no need for peasants to give up for half their livestock in those trailers, the vehicles that drive, kill in the forestlands, cause great damage to the environment, the environment, and now, by registering the livestock, the farmer will have the right to implement through the meatcombination, get 20 per cent of the allowances, get the corresponding payments and fix that he is working in the farm, produce production, and this will be linked to the Personal Agriculture Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u97	Do you insist on voting on this amendment? Please record Ruslan Lukianchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u98	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. And what I'm saying is that when you do produce in the market, the market is going to control it in a sanitary epidemiological way. And that's why I think that if we accept this bill, it's really going to be a shadowy market, which is that trade from the feet is going to be. I insist on re-second reading, first of all, my proposal. And I insist on voting before voting on this amendment. Thank you. Number six.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u99	Amendment number six of Gureyev’s national deputy, who is proposed by the committee to take account of the vote. Please identify yourself. [[11:11:38]] For-9 Correction not supported. It's being removed from the text.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u100	Parliament did not support the peasant farming and implementation system. It's the right thing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u101	To what amendments are there claims? None. It is the vote on adoption in the second reading of the draft Law on the Identification and Registration of Animals. [[Registration number 3008]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:12:25]] For 210 The decision is not taken. Not supported. There are two proposals coming from the National Deputies: the proposal to re-read and the proposal to return to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u102	The first is to return to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u103	Since there is a proposal to return to the vote, I propose to return to the position of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the second reading of the draft Law on the Identification and Registration of Animals. Please vote. [[11:13:17]] For 261 We're back. I would like to vote on the second reading of the draft Law on the Identification and Registration of Animals, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[Registration number 3008]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:13:45]] For 254 The bill was adopted in a second reading. Is there a need to fix something? None. The factions. Please, by the factions. Region Party – 169, "Julia Timoshenko Block" – 0, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 40, communists – 27, "Litvina Block" – 18. I am betting on voting for adoption as a whole as a bill of the Ukrainian Animal Identification and Registration Act. [[Registration number 3008]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:14:31]] For 249 The law's been passed. The draft Law on the General Purpose Economic Programme for the Monitoring of Residues of Veterinary Substances and Contaminants in Live Animals, Animal Products and Feed, as well as in food products controlled by the Veterinary Service for 2009-2014, is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 3402]] Report to the head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Mikola Volodymyrovich Jury, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u104	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The committee has finalized the draft Law on the Universal Purpose Economic Programme for the Monitoring of Residues of Veterinary Substances and Contaminants in Live Animals, Animal Products and Feed, adopted in the first reading, as well as in food products under veterinary control for 2009-2014, and proposes to be considered in a second reading. In drafting the bill, three proposals were considered by Ukrainian national deputy Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich. They all refer to the inclusion of genetically modified organisms in the amendment program. The Committee considers that these proposals cannot be supported because these proposals are defined by a separate Ukrainian Law on State Biosafety in Testing, Transportation and Use of Genetically Modified Organisms and Decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as follows: 114, 308 and 423, 468 since 2009. In addition, determining the presence of GMOs in products and feed requires, in principle, other methods and equipment than that provided by the project of the programme. In particular, the inclusion of GMOs in the list of objects monitored under the programme requires a thorough review of the funding and the material and technical base and the training of professionals, rather than the project. Today, in accordance with article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Biosafety in Creation, Testing, Transportation and Use of Genetically Modified Organs, the issue of control of GMO presence in animals, animal products and feed belongs to the competence of the central executive authority, not to the competence of the State Committee, the State Committee. This means that State-made medicine can't be the executor of a homo-monitoring program. However, since the issue deserves attention and needs to be regulated by law, Derkovetini has already been processed and agreed to amend the legislation in question with a view to delimiting the powers of the Ministry of Politics and the State to control GMOs. With regard to the comments of the Chief Legal Authority to the bill, lawyers recommend setting a deadline for the implementation of the programme between 2010 and 2015, by adjusting the years, financing and implementation of the programme as of 1 January 2010.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u105	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u106	The Committee agrees with the first part of the observation on the transfer of execution and funding deadlines for 2010-2015, but considers it appropriate to leave the previous regulation on the introduction of the law in effect from the time it is published in order to form and anticipate in the 2010 draft budget the costs necessary for the implementation of the programme. Dear colleagues, the committee requests that the bill be supported in the second reading and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, there have been three amendments to the draft law that was passed in the first reading that the committee proposes to reject. Please correct number one national deputy Yuri Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u108	Yuri Carmazin. I'll make three amendments, if I may.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u109	Please, after all three amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that the committee has made an understanding of my efforts to draw attention to the fact that today no one is doing anything with regard to genetically modified products, is not studying, is not creating their base, is not studying how to protect a person from the influence of genetically modified organisms, and the Law on the State Biosafety System is still not being fully implemented in the country. That's why I'd like to ask the committee not to be assigned to the department of health, that's veterinary medicine. Man is a complex creature of God. And you know, what he eats and what he breathes also depends on how it will be and what will continue to be born. I'm taking down all three of the amendments, but I'm paying attention to the committee that we need to go in and out of the way, that's the MoE or that's the vet. We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u111	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Thus, a project introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, adopted in the first reading in the same unamended edition, is proposed for adoption in the second reading and in general. Is there no objection in the National Deputies to the decision of the Committee on the Rejection of Amendments? None. I am voting on the draft Law on a State-wide targeted economic programme to monitor residues of veterinary medicinal products and pollutants in live animals, products of animal origin and feed, as well as food products controlled by the veterinary service for 2009-2013 on second reading and as a whole. [[Registration number 3402]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:21:29]] For 362 The law's been passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u112	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u113	A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on improving the national price regulation of the agricultural market, risk insurance, recovery measures and rural social programmes]] [[Registration number 2375]] Sergey Mikolaiovich Ribuk reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u114	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, you are being reviewed by the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture on Improving the Mechanisms of State Price Regulation for the Market in Agricultural Production, Insurance for Agricultural Risks and Implementing Measures for the Restoration of Animals and the Implementation of Social Programmes. The draft law is being prepared to improve the mechanisms of State support for Ukraine’s agriculture. I'll remind you with your permission that the first reading of the bill was adopted on December 25th last year. In the second reading, the bill was also discussed, just in April of this year. Along with this, honourable colleagues, as you recall, in my previous report, when we considered it in the second reading, I asked you to vote in favour of sending the bill for a second reading, which we have done, to resolve a number of issues, but very important, in principle. And we believe that at the two meetings of the additional committee, an additional working group, together with experts, we have managed to solve the vast majority of the issues here and to offer you a solution. We've consulted here repeatedly with the Ministry of Economics, Finance, the Tax Administration, the Academy of Agricultural Sciences and also representatives of the Agrarian Ministry. According to the results of the second reading work, the number of amendments increased to 88. Of these, 61 amendments are taken into account and proposed for your consideration, 7 are considered to be largely editorial, 19 are rejected as being such that they are, although correct, but do not meet the objectives of this law and are contrary to the Budget Code, as we do not want to take them into account, we had to reject them because they are in conflict with the Budget Code and the valid legislative acts, and they are not taken into account in the last laws of Ukraine. The amended bill was finally discussed at a meeting of the Supreme Council Committee on Agrarian Policy, Land Relations. And the committee recommends that the Supreme Council accept it in second reading and in general as a law. Therefore, I ask you, Your Honor, to support the initiatives of the National MPs, to adopt the bill as a law. Thank you for your attention. Now we can move on to the revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, there is a request that we, in the same mode, consider first the amendments that the committee recommends to reject and then return to the amendments that the committee proposes to consider. Is there no objection? None. Amendment No. 2 of the National MP Seminoga, insists, Anatoly Ivanovich? Don't insist. Amendment No. 3 of the National MP Seminoga, insists? Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u116	Counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u117	Amendment No. 9 of the People's Chamber insists? No, it doesn't. Amendment 34 of the people’s deputies of Sigala and Slavata, do national MPs insist? Don't insist. National MP Tkachenko and National MP Demyanchuk Amendment 36, insist? Don't insist. Amendment No. 39 of the Karmazin People's Deputy. Microphone, please, National Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u118	Yuri Carmazin. I propose to delete the "no" in paragraph 10.1.3. Article 11 reads: “If a person carries out the legal relations defined in subparagraphs "b" to "g" of this paragraph, the risk of loss of animal production is a prerequisite for such a relationship.” Well, I don't understand why the amendment was rejected, there's no explanation here, a motive. It's a justification. The tables are conclusions and justifications. Only the word “deviation” is written, there is no justification.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u119	What page?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u120	This is page 17, Amendment 39. See page 17.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u121	Please, Sergey Mikolayovich, your argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u122	I see we have something else.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u123	Amendment 39 of the Karmazin People’s Deputies applies to the vote. Please identify yourself as members of the People's Party. [[11:27:35]] For the 15th. Correction not supported. Amendment No. 40, National Deputies Tkachenko, Demyanchuk Are they insisting? Don't insist. Amendment number 46, national deputies Seagal, Slauta. Are they insisting? Don't insist. Amendment 47, national MP Sigal. Don't insist. Amendment 51, national MP Sigal. Is he insisting? No, it's not. Amendment 57, National Deputy Ungurian. Is he insisting on his amendment? No, it doesn't. Amendment 61, national MP Sigal. Don't insist. 65th National MP Sigal. I agree with the committee's decision. 67th. People's deputies Sigal, Slatta, Tuck. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u124	It's regulated by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u125	68th. Sigal People's Deputies, Slauta. Don't insist. 72nd Amendment. People's MP Sigal. Don't insist. 78th Amendment. People's Deputy Carmazin. Is the MP insisting? Don't insist. Thus, the proposals recommended by the committee were considered. Please provide the National Deputies with suggestions for consideration of the amendments made by the Ukrainian National Deputies, which the Committee recommends to take into account. Microphone to the People's Deputy Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u126	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. The honourable reporter is a note to paragraph 2 of the bill, sub-paragraph 3.3.1 and 3.3.2., which proposes to expand the list of government price regulation objects, which will further require the State budget to form a state-of-the-art food reserve. In view of the above, we believe that paragraph 2 of the bill should be deleted. In addition to paragraph 3, paragraph 8, of the bill, this is article 11 of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u127	Let's do it in a row. Please give an argument about the first proposal of the People's Deputy Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u128	Thank you. Indeed, we had a discussion, and we agreed with the producers, first of all, to extend as much as possible the list of agricultural products that could be subject to government price regulation. Since one year, you remember how much, the Greek becomes an object, there is wheat, there is solid strong wheat, not necessarily for a price settlement, but according to the Cabinet of Ministers, a maneuver is given to ensure that during the marketing year, depending on the yield of the market, including children’s food products, can be subject to government price regulation. So that's exactly what we're giving you the great rights of the Cabinet of Ministers, so you're convinced by the committee. Thank you. What do we give up? So let's leave because that's exactly what this is.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u129	Please, the microphone of the People's Deputy Laszka.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u130	And a second observation. To paragraph 3, paragraph 8, of the bill, article 11 of the law, which proposes the creation of a state agency for agricultural risk management. But in the framework of the Minagropolitics, there is an appropriate unit that has been commissioned to implement the provisions of the Law on State Support for Agriculture. This is budget program 2801580. At the same time, the draft law does not contain financial and economic calculations and proposals for sources of cost related to the establishment of this new institution. In this regard, the creation of this agency should be removed, and the units that are now in MinAPC and perform these functions should be removed. Why do we have to expand these states of government, the machines, create new agencies when they can, there's a lot of people in the ministry. I think that the unit that does these duties today can continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u131	Thank you. The following is an explanation. That risk management, especially with regard to agriculture, is still said to be an unstarted and uncharacteristic land of work. And we have something to start with. Indeed, the Ministry of Agrarian Politics could create and strengthen the work path itself. But because it's important and we're proposing today, and you can't see that you can't add any functions at the expense of the budget. Within the limits of the current budget, within the limits of the current budget, and next year, they form an agency. But according to the law, they start to develop the problem of agricultural risk management. Here you can put the vote to the vote, and you can take control of the law in the state of this matter, which is quite complex today in terms of its ignorance and non-implementation in our state.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u132	Thank you. This was the 48th amendment that suggested the creation of this agency, right? Are you asking us to vote for her support? I'm putting to the vote Amendment 48, please ask the people's deputies to identify themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u133	Well, it's counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u134	[[11:34:32]] For the four of us. Not supported, no additional agencies are created. Please, Deputity Mike.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u135	Mr. Chairman, please also put to the vote support for article 3, paragraphs 3.3.1 and 3.3.2., of the law, which is being extended to extend the list of public price regulation objects. Because I'm stressing once again that this will lead to an additional need for the state budget and the formation of the state food reserve, and there is no such possibility in the state today. So I ask that you also put this question to the vote in support of this expansion of the list of objects.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u136	With this approach, there is no need to even consider these bills and time to waste, because, as far as agriculture is concerned, where budgetary funding is being made immediately and even MP Lazko starts to deny it. Why do we ask this question, the wrong question, or the need to finance it from the budget? Let's finance what problems the government is looking for, because we have to have food security in the state. That's the position.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u137	The proposal of the People’s Deputy Lazko regarding paragraphs 3.3.1 and 3.3.2. shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u138	No, he's asking to be expelled. Against it. Against it. The object of the price arrangement is millet, wheat there, and so on. [[11:36:13]] For the
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u139	The decision is not taken. There are still claims, proposals for amendments that the committee has proposed to support. May I have the microphone of the People's Deputy Carmazin?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u140	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! We had a strange situation. Parliament has not been ideologically in favour of amendment 48, where the definition of a state agency for agricultural risk management was involved. At the same time, on the right hand side, on the right hand side, what was adopted in the first reading is the State Agency for Agricultural Risk Management, and it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be kind of, it's not known in any way. [[Article 11]] So I'm drawing your attention to the observation of the expert administration, the legal, the Chief Legal Authority at paragraph 3, which refers to the specific creation of the agency by means of a new drafting of article 11 of the law. And I believe that if this article, article 11, is to be redrafted, we have already voted. I've drawn your attention and I believe that then the risks are for the integrity of the bill and for you to pay attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u141	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich, this is when we adopt in the second reading, then we will listen to your proposal for a third reading. At the suggestion of the National Deputies, what committee proposes to take into account any further observations? More comments on the suggestions that the committee proposes to take into account are not available. I am voting on the adoption of the second draft of the Law on State Support for Agriculture of Ukraine on Improving the Mechanisms for State Price Regulation of the Agricultural Product Market, Risk Insurance, Agricultural Production and Implementing Measures for Restoring the Implementation of Social Programmes in the Village. [[Registration number 2375]] Please vote. [[11:38:45]] For 256 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, National Deputy Carmazin suggested that the draft law be directed to a third reading to bring it into internal harmony. Sergei Mikolaiovich, please, your point of view on this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u142	The point is, we've all come to, I think, agree to this agency's risks ministry and it'll create itself, if it's written in that article, that's what National Deputy Carmazin said. So I don't see any special kind of colossal here. What's more, now that we've extended the bill, when the budget is formed, then our business will be in vain again, and the bill won't work, and we'll lose at least another year. Let us vote in general, and let the law and agriculture work.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u143	Offer. National MP Sulkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, you know, I don't have only myself, but many of the national deputies are asking questions to one of our colleagues. If he cannot understand for a short period of time that it is practical to count a million, for in a thousand we do not make a contribution, our colleague makes amendments. I'm not going to call it not to take up his last name. I think he understands all this very well. A fine lawyer and so forth. Well, he wants to put his "I" in everything. He can't understand that he's taking almost all this time in the Supreme Council just without any sense, but 450 people's deputies are sitting there, and one of 450 is smart. So I'm proposing a thought-out and a request to this deputy, after all, and the bill today needs to be passed in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u145	I am voting on the adoption as a whole, as a law, of draft Act No. 2375 on State support for agriculture of Ukraine (to improve the mechanisms for state price regulation of the agricultural market, insurance for agricultural production and the implementation of measures for the restoration of livestock and the implementation of social programs in rural areas. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:41:37]] For 314 Decision adopted, law approved. A draft Act amending article 19 of the Ukrainian Cooperation Act, registration number 2158, is being announced for consideration. [[on the acquisition of ownership rights by members of the cooperative]] Reported to the head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Gayman Oleg Eisikovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u146	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! On 17 February 2009, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the draft Ukrainian Act amending article 19 of the Ukrainian Cooperation Act in the first reading. [[on the acquisition of ownership rights by members of the cooperative]] During the drafting of the bill on May 13, 2009, proposals were made to the committee by Ukrainian national deputies: Zvarič, Tkachenka, Kojara, and Karmazina. All suggestions are correct and considered essentially and editorially. There are also observations and suggestions from the Chief Scientific and Expert Office and the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Economic Policy Committee's decision is to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft Ukrainian Law amending article 19 of the "On Cooperation" Act in second reading and in general as a law. [[on the acquisition of ownership rights by members of the cooperative]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u147	We have six amendments to the draft law, all taken into account or partially counted. Do the authors of the amendments have any objections to taking into account the wording of the committee? Is there a denial? The authors of the amendments agree. Do the Ukrainian National Deputies have warnings about the committee's recommendations in the light of these six amendments? There's no warning. I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and, as a whole, the bill of the Ukrainian Act amending article 19 of the Ukrainian Cooperation Act. Registration number 2158. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:44:47]] For 326 The law's been passed. A draft Law amending article 338 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the increase of criminal responsibility for the abuse of Ukrainian State symbols in us, registration number 1049, has been announced for consideration. According to Vladimir Ivanovich Moisik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u148	Vladimir Moisik, “For Ukraine” MP. Dear colleagues, on March 31st this year, by the constitutional majority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we approved the changes to the article in question in order to increase criminal responsibility for the abuse of national symbols, as well as the official symbols of foreign nations. The current change in office envisioned criminal responsibility for public abuse of Ukraine’s national flag, Ukraine’s national coat of arms, and Ukraine’s national anthem. And these actions were punishable by fines of up to 850 bracelets, or arrests of up to 6 months. Similarly, the current codex contains public responsibility for public abuse of an officially established or raised flag or coat of arms of a foreign state, and the same punishment has been provided. The authors of the legislative initiative requested that the responsibility for such actions be increased in general and that the responsibility for the abuse of national shrines be strengthened separately. And even though he was changing a few words, there were 17 amendments to the legislative initiative, of which seven were taken into account in whole or in part, eight were rejected. There are no comments to the bill in the same way as it is not surprising, the Chief Legal Authority and the Committee are proposing to adopt the bill as a law as a whole. I'm ready to report the amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u149	Thank you, Vladimir Romanovich. We have a small bill, but the amendments came, practically, to every article. Amendment number two, which the committee proposes to reject, is the National Deputy of the School. Andrew Vasilovich insists on his amendment? Don't insist. Amendment No. 5 of the Stojko People's Deputies. Is the National MP insisting? Please, the microphone of the people's deputy Stojko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u150	Ivan Stojko, group “For Ukraine”. Mr. Chairman, Your Honor Vladimir Romanovich! My amendment concerns just the addition of article 338, which refers to this content: “The actions envisaged in part one or two of this part are punishable by the deprivation of liberty for a term of three to six years and without the right to hold office for a term of up to three years. That is, the person who has abused national symbols should, of course, not be punished with 800 bracelets or a six - year term of imprisonment, but more harshly and cruelly. And that's why the "For Ukraine" group assures Ukrainians that they will stand for not only state symbols, but also our nationality, tradition, culture, Ukrainian language, which is really Ukrainian genetic code. I insist that we vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u151	The honourable chairman, the honourable author of the amendment, shares the author's position that the amendment should be strictly responsible for the abuse of national symbols. However, based on a systematic analysis of the criminal code, it is not possible to establish six years of imprisonment for acts such as that proposed by John Mikhajlovich and cannot be denied the right to hold certain positions because such punishment is applied when the office is used to commit a crime. In this case, it is a general subject of crime and, unfortunately, the committee may have disagreed with your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u152	Amendment No. 5 of the People's Deputies Stands for a vote, please identify yourself. [[11:49:44]] For-60 Correction not supported. The committee proposes to reject amendment No. 7 of the national deputy of Vezevski. Is Veziowski’s deputy insisting? Please, the microphone of the deputy of Vezysowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u153	Vladimir Vyezowski, “Our Ukraine”, the MP group “For Ukraine!” The very essence of the amendment is that various special hydroelectric mechanisms are often used to perform such unprecedented acts on national symbols. Therefore, it would be entirely fair for those mechanisms to be used for the purpose of their assignment rather than to be used for the abuse of the State. Even if some do not like today’s authority or tomorrow’s authority, it is not necessary to identify authority with national symbolism. And for that it is necessary to be punished, and because, at least, such instruments and instruments must be removed and confiscated from the person who committed such a crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u154	The honourable authors of the amendment, the Criminal Procedure Code, have appropriate rules that govern the commission of crimes with certain means and tools, are subject to confiscation under the rules of the Procedural Code. I mean, that's why the legal committee didn't consider your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u155	Do you insist on voting? Microphone, Deputy Vyezovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u156	Deputies for Ukraine. Vladimir Viezowski. If this is provided in other laws, unfortunately, I'm not fully aware of the profile group, then the issue is off.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u157	There's no insistence on the MP. 8th Amendment of People's Deputies Karpuk. The committee's proposing a rejection. Are you insisting? Please, the microphone of the people's deputy Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u158	Vladimir Karpuk, “For Ukraine” MP. The language goes to complement the sanctions of parts 1 and 2 of article 338 with penalties in the form of deprivation of the right to hold positions or to engage in certain activities for a period of up to three years. It is said that in many parts of the world, the abuse of State symbols refers to the most serious crimes. Let's say in the same United States that we call a symbol of democracy. And it cannot be that this abuse is committed by a person who works in public authorities or is a civil servant and can then claim positions in these organs. And unfortunately, the history of Ukraine does know the examples. So I think it's this amendment that needs to be defined in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, like John Stoick’s amendment, such punishment as the denial of the right to hold certain positions or to engage in certain activities is applied to persons who use this position to perform such acts were not in practice. And the committee disagreed with your amendment. I'm reporting to the Committee on Law Enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u160	Amendment No. 8 of the People’s Deputy Karpuka is subject to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:53:22]] For-51 Correction not supported. Amendment No. 9 of the people’s Deputy Dubyl is also proposed to be rejected by the committee. Is the National MP insisting? Don't insist. He insists. National MP Dubyl, please argue if you're here.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u161	Cannot initialise Evolution's mail
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u162	There is no national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u163	Double. He's gone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u164	Amendment No. 11 of the People's Deputy of Paris. Please, the People's Deputy of Paris, you have a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u165	Dear Chairman! Deputies! Today we are considering an extremely important law, and I would like to see proper consideration for this law in the hall. Because the preservation of national symbols is one of the most important things in the form of the existence of a state in the Ukrainian military tradition, and even in the tradition of the European meaning of the flag, it is extremely important that the regiment that lost the flag was dissolved. Regrettably, there are often instances in the Ukrainian State where foreign citizens are allowed to act on the national symbols and impunity that is now in our legislation very often motivates them to do so. Therefore, I propose that article 338 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine be completed as part of a third of this content: the actions provided for in part 1 of this article by a foreign citizen are punishable by deprivation of liberty for a term of 3 to 6 years, with the exclusion of the right to hold certain positions or to engage in certain activities for a term of up to 3 years. The parliamentary group “For Ukraine” is asking everyone to support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u166	Amendment No. 11 of the People's Deputies of Paris is a vote, please identify yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u167	I wanted to explain. We're done. [[11:55:26]] For-47
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u168	Correction not supported. The next amendment proposed by the committee to reject number 12, People's Deputy Dubyl, insists? There's no insistence on a national MP. Amendment 15, the National Deputy School, suggests that the committee reject. Is Andrew Vasilovich insisting? Don't insist. Now let's go back to the amendments that the committee proposes to take into account in part. Are the amendment authors in agreement with this text? Amendment 4, National Deputy Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u169	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National MPs, I propose to change the scope of article 338, where to write, to make such an editorial part of article 338, which reads: “Violation of the State Flag of Ukraine, the State Herb of Ukraine or public abuse of the State Hymn of Ukraine”, and continues to be punishable by a fine of up to 150 non-taxable minimums of citizens' income and by arrest for up to 6 months or deprivation of liberty for up to two years. I argue why the word “public abuse” has been replaced by the word “reaction”. For example, a number of individuals have planned to do some anti - Ukrainian action. They took out the flags in public. They were thrown into the trash, and so on they showed it by doing so. But not publicly destroyed by all. So there's no crime scene? That's why I write. Let's write the "abuse" and this will increase, increase the volume of those who fall under this article.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u170	Allow me, Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u171	Volodymyr Romanovich, your arguments.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u172	It is I who can explain and bind him to the amendment of Mr. Andria Parubia. The point is that when we make changes to the situation, the idea of the law changes to the rule of law, i.e. the project voted on in the first reading touched only the sanctions of the articles and, in fact, Yuri Anatolievich, that's why we didn't take your amendment into account, and we suggest that you make changes to the law in force and to the positions of parts of the article.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u173	Yuri Anatolyovich, do you insist on voting in your editorial? A vote is taken on amendment No. 4 of the People's Deputy Karmazin. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:58:19]] Z-62 Correction not supported. Next amendment number 6 of People's Deputies Kendzer. Partially counted. Do you agree with the committee? A Microphone, please, to the MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u174	Jaroslav Kenzior is an MP for Ukraine. First. I thank the committee for taking the second part of my amendment to article 338 of the Criminal Code. As for my amendment to part 1 of article 338, where I suggested appropriate punishment for abuse of State symbols from 2 to 5 years old, the committee was somehow rejected. Given the fact that we have an independent Ukrainian state in recent years, it is simply the power of the village to abuse State symbols and reactions, as far as I know, that no trial has been conducted in Ukraine. And then I think to start training Ukrainian society and bad citizens to respect Ukrainian symbols, I think it would be wise to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u175	Amendment 6 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:59:55]] For-37 Correction not supported. The next amendment, which is included in part, is the number 10 of the Stoyko People's Deputies. Are you insisting on your writing? People's deputy stand's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u176	Ivan Stojko, group “For Ukraine! ” Your Honor, I am returning to the abuse of symbols. There are many examples in modern - day Ukrainian history. In various parts of Ukraine, not only foreigners but also citizens of Ukraine have actually been abused by a disgrace that does not correspond to the civilized world over our symbols. And so I think that the responsibility for such abuse of our Ukrainian symbols should be set to 5 years' imprisonment. Because our Ukrainians sometimes do not think that they have ancient Ukrainian symbols that go and lead Ukraine to the time of Prince Vladimir the Great. Therefore, we must not only safeguard but also preserve the festival and believe that these symbols are.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u177	May I ask Alexander Volodymyrovich? The point is that in the final edition, the committee proposes: for abuse of Ukrainian national symbols, the maximum penalty is 3 years of imprisonment, for abuse of the officially established symbols of the foreign state, for up to 2 years of deprivation of liberty. The author Kenzior and Sojko are offering accordingly: in Ukrainian, up to 6 years old, for foreign, up to 3 years old. The committee made you an offer: three and two. The right of the session hall to be defined.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u178	Amendment No. 10 of the People’s Deputy Stojko shall be subject to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:02:05]] For-40 Correction not supported. As for the amendments that the committee proposes to take into account, are warnings to the national MPs? None. I put to the vote the second reading of the draft Law on Amendments to Article 338 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on increasing responsibility for abuse of Ukrainian State symbols]] [[Registration number 1049]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:02:48]] For 227 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Vladimir Romanovich, is it necessary to work on the third reading? None. I am voting on the adoption as a whole as the bill of the draft Act amending article 338 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on increasing responsibility for abuse of Ukrainian State symbols]] [[Registration number 1049]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:03:31]] For 228 Decision adopted, law approved. [[Applause]] The factions, please. Region Party – 0, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko” – 155, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 54, Communists – 0, “Block of Lithuania” – 19. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a recess of up to 12 hours and 34 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u179	Dear National Deputies! We continue the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Announcing the question of the election of judges. The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Justice, Kiwalov Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u180	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen! At its meeting on June 3, this year, the Supreme Council Committee on Justice considered the appointment of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the heads of the higher specialized courts on the selection of judges on an indefinite basis and the election of judges previously elected on an indefinite basis. You are well aware of the procedure. The judges are on the balcony and in the guest bed. Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 4598 The committee recommends that judges be elected on an indefinite basis: the Court of Appeal of the Chernigiv district of Karnauh Andrija Stanislavovic; Kyiv’s Court of Appeal, Euscikova Aleksandrovitch; Sacks District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Anatoly Mikhailovich; The Kyiv District Court of Simferopol Kuktu Maksim Valeriyovich; The Rokitnian District Court of Kiev, Litvina Alexandre Vasilovich; The Bridge District Court of the Lviv Region of Borisenko Volodymira Volodymyrovich; The Central District Court of Mikolajeva Batchenka Oleg Viacheslavovich; The Lozov District Court of the Kharkiv district of Smyrnov Natalya Andriyevna; Harkova Protasov Olga Mikhaylovna, a red-fertilized district court; The Catherinapil District Court of the Cherkas region, Alexia Pavlovich; Marenjuk Viktor Leonidovich, District Court of Cherkas; The Sosnov district court of Cherkasa Plužnik Tetjana Fedorovna; Bachmatsky District Court of Chernigiv District, Prilepka Valeri Mihajlovich; Coryukiv District Court of Chernigiv District, Aleksandr Ivanovich; The right-wing district court of Chernigova Bečka Evgen Mikolaiovich, Malisz Valentina Vitaliyovich; Darnicki District Court of Kiev Danilenko Vitalia Valeriyovich, Trusov Tamara Alexandrovna; the Economic Court of Zaporozhye District of Svetlana Sergiyevna; the commercial court of the Kirovograd district of Korotchenko Ludmila Stanislavna; The Economic Court of the Mikolai district of Filinjuk Ivan Georgievovich; the Commercial Court of the Ternopil district of Bouchin Galina Bogdanovna; and the court-martial of Kharkiv, Usatoy Vitali Alexanderovich. The committee is asking for the support of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u181	Hare Ivan Aleksandrovitch, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u182	I have a question for the head of the committee and for Judge Protasov. I have been approached by citizens who claim the activity of Judge Protasov that a number of decisions of this judge have been overturned by the court of the Kharkiv District Court of Appeal, in particular with regard to the eviction of a human being, then other things. Have you considered such things on the committee, or do you have such material, and what can the judge say about it? Because claims such as these are systematic errors and that they are constantly mortifying, they are mutilated by higher institutions. Therefore, the claims are before the judge, and I am obliged to sound them.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u183	Dear colleagues! We considered issues related to the work of Protas Olga Mihaylovna at the meeting of the Committee. At the meeting of the Committee, we also have, as a rule, the leadership of the Supreme Court, the leadership of the Council of Judges of Ukraine, the leadership of the Supreme Council of Justice, and if there are complaints, observations, of course, they are dealt with on the committee. If the complaint is not closed or there are any problems with the judge, we try not to move into the hall, we decide on the committee. When all the complaints are closed, then we directly take them to the hall and propose. If memory does not change, the Protas decision has been taken unanimously. Representatives on the committee, you know, different political forces.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u184	Olga Mikhailna Protasova, if you have anything to say about this, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u185	That's what I'd like to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u186	May I have your attention, fellow officers?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u187	On this point, I would like to say that the person who inspired the honourable Mr. Deputy to make such a request may not have been aware of my results. The real results of my work. Statistical data on the quality of my case, in some cases even higher than in the area. There are such statistics available on the committee. And in five years of my work, I've had more than 9,600 cases brought before our court, and in fact, the Redwater Court has had seven complaints about my activities, which have been carefully considered, and my actions have not been declared illegal. And if that's a lot of complaints about me, that's a low quality. Well, you'll conclude, ladies and gentlemen of parliament. That's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u188	Ivan Aleksandrovitch, please. Please, the microphone. Satisfying, yes. Are you taking a warning? Our colleague was satisfied with the explanation. So there is every reason to put to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of judges. [[Registration number 4598]] Please vote. [[12:43:10]] For the 320. Decision taken. Please proceed with your ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u189	The Committee recommends the selection of judges previously elected on an indefinite basis as judges: the Zaporozhye District Administrative Court of Sadov Igor Viktorovich; Sumi District Administrative Court Sopianek Alexander Volodymirovich. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, there are no warnings? I'm betting on a draft Supreme Council decree on the election of judges. [[Registration number 4599]] Please vote. [[12:43:59]] For 310 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, on your behalf, allow me to welcome the judges who are appointed to their posts on an untimely basis and to wish the chosen judges to act in accordance with the laws, namely, to work honestly and conscientiously and normally in good health. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the second reading of the bill. A draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences is being announced for consideration. [[on the Qualification of Crimes and Offences]] [[Registration number 3490]] The rapporteur is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement activities, Vladimir Stepanovich Malishev.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u191	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! On behalf of our citizens, I am grateful for the adoption of this law on first reading. In preparing this bill for second reading, a number of comments were received to our committee not only from my fellow members of the people's deputies, but also from the Attorney General's Office, our Legal Office. To address them, a round table was held on 15 April, which was attended not only by scientists and practices but also by leaders of regional organizations and public organizations. In the course of the discussion, a compromise was reached, namely, the amount of stolen property to be determined to distinguish between administrative offences and crimes, to reduce from three non-taxable minimum the income of citizens, i.e. 907.5 bracelets, to a minimum of 0.2 unladen, i.e. up to 60 bracelets of 50 copies. This is the best option, that is, reducing to 60 bracelets of petty theft will protect our citizens from criminals. In addition, it is proposed that the article of the Administrative Code for re-introduction of petty theft during the year increase the fine in article 85 of the Criminal Code. Our committee supported the bill in its entirety. There are no comments from the General Legal Office. The main thing is, in the law, that the abduction of foreign property is considered to be minor if the value of such property at the time of the commission of the offence does not exceed 0.2 unpaid minimum income of citizens or 60 bracelets of 50 copies. Please support this bill and adopt it as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u192	Dear colleagues! Let us now pay attention to the amendments that are rejected if the amendment authors insist. Amendment 4th, National Deputy Ariev? No, it's not. 5th, Oily. Are you insisting? No, it's not. 6th, Prutnik. Oh, no? 7th, also Prutnik. No, it's not. Jury Carmazin's amendment, 8th. Are you insisting? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u193	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I am grateful that the committee has taken this law seriously because there has been a real problem in society right now with the distinction of criminal responsibility. And given that these changes have now taken place, I don't insist on taking my amendment into account, I think that as soon as it becomes effective, this law will bring down the criminalization of society, that is to say, greater protection of citizens' property than it has been before, because chaos is a nuisance for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u194	Thank you. 9th Amendment. National MP Alexander Steshenko insists on her? No, it's not. All other amendments are included. Dear colleagues, the committee's proposal to accept it in second reading and generally as a law. The principal legal administration has no comments. Therefore, I am voting on the second reading, as a whole, of the draft Act amending the Code on Administrative Offences on the Qualification of Crimes and Offences. [[Registration number 3490]] Please vote. [[12:49:14]] For 306 The law is passed. A draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the order of social protection of the population, which resides in areas of monitoring of uranium mining, nuclear facilities and radioactive waste management, is being discussed. [[second reading]] The rapporteur is a member of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Mr. Tolub Sergey Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u195	Dear colleagues, as regards the draft law that Vladimir Mikhailovich, registration number 2174 said, please move it to another session week, because there are some issues, disagreements and they need to be worked out.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u196	Dear colleagues, the committee's proposal to postpone the consideration of the draft law. We agree, there's no need to vote? Let's agree. Then please, but let's say that for the next plenary week we're looking at it, yes, Sergey Borisovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u197	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u198	I'm asking you to take this into account in the preparation of the session schedule. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Order of Decisions on Placement, Design, Construction of Nuclear Installations and Objects for the Management of Radioactive Wastes, which are of general importance, is being announced for consideration. [[on improving decision-making]] [[Registration number 3562]] The reporter is Tulub Sergey Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Order of Decisions on the Location, Design, Construction and Construction of Nuclear Installations and Objects for the Treatment of Radioactive Wastes, which has been adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its first reading in March. [[Registration number 3562]] This bill has been finalized. The purpose of the bill is to resolve issues related to the construction of the listed objects, to decide on the extension of existing nuclear installations beyond the design deadline, to define the region as an administrative and territorial unit at sites of nuclear energy and some other important issues. During the drafting of the bill, the second reading of the proposal of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the National Deputies of Ukraine, the central executive bodies that have joined the committee are practically all counted. The project standards are updated and edited. A conciliatory meeting was held with representatives of the central executive authorities. Particular attention has been paid to the provision of constitutional rights for citizens and the participation of territorial communities in the discussion and proposals for the placement of objects that may have a negative impact on the state of the environment, the obligation to take into account the opinion of the relevant territorial community or relevant territorial communities when deciding on the placement of nuclear facilities and appropriate facilities. The legislative standards developed by experts will ensure the full implementation of the affected conceptual issues. This law will enable us to move to practical implementation of nuclear energy tasks and to ensure the development of the energy sector. The bill is supported by the profile, as well as by other committees, and I propose this bill in the second reading to be adopted as a law as a whole. Please support the distinguished national deputies and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, all the suggestions made in this law have been taken into account by the committee. So there is every reason to vote on the adoption of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act.The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Order of Decisions on Placement, Design, Construction of Nuclear Installations and Objects for the Treatment of Radioactive Wastes of General Public Importance" for the adoption of its draft in the second reading and in general as a law (Registration No. 3562). [[on improving decision-making]] Please vote. [[12:54:14]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Now. Now. Just a minute. Dear colleagues, this is a draft law that is not political, so let's do it this way. Huh? Well, one minute, now. Well, please tell me again, Sergey Borisovich, about this law because you're confused with another law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, I said 2174.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u202	He took the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u203	We filmed it to rework it. This applies to standards that apply there, namely, to congregations, taxes, and so on. This is a question that needs to be agreed upon, and we agreed that we would agree on it and bring it out for the next session week, and this law, which applies to the territorial communities, refers to discussion when making decisions and so on. I'm asking the managers very much, it's been agreed upon.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u204	Sergey Borisovich, give us a chance. I'll tell you what. Dear colleagues! The bill is for attention! –2174, where there is additional pressure on the State budget, this bill has been withdrawn. We are now considering another bill that deals with the agreement of the local nuclear facilities communities. It means that if stations are to be built in line or shelter, or after-service plants, after the fuel is disposed of, and when it comes to handling radioactive waste.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u205	This is so that local authorities can influence the territorial communities. Have your own decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u206	The argument has been brought to your attention. I'm voting for a return to draft Law 3562.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u207	In the first reading, Ivan Grigorovich voted in favour of this 376 votes. [[12:56:36]] For 204
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u208	The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the second one again. Dear colleagues, you were unable to vote in favour of your bill. On the second one, please. Bill 3562, although it did not understand what to do with the second. [[12:57:03]] For 341 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we should now consider a bill to amend some of the Ukrainian legislation on pre-documentation at border crossing points. [[Registration number 2766]] The committee requested a postponement of consideration of the bill in view of the fact that a number of points had not been agreed upon, and it could be expected to do just as well as the previous bill. That is why I ask the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support the postponement of this bill and to make a record of it for the next plenary week. No objections? Thank you. A draft Act amending the Law on Value Added Tax on International Transport Services is being announced for consideration. [[second reading]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Terjehohin Sergey Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u209	Thank you, Mr. Head. Ladies and gentlemen, there are nine rights to this very important law, seven of them. The two amendments were rejected because we had recently passed a law that introduced the ATA Carnet, so these are now obsolete, that is, they were adjusted for the last week of the Supreme Council. The rest of the lines are accounted for. The only thing I'd like to say for the transcript is that for technical reasons, on page 11 the tablets fell last paragraph 6.2. 4, which I'd like to read. “Transport of passengers, their luggage and cargo through Ukraine, which are included in a solid service, is taxed in accordance with the order defined in paragraph 6.1. [[Move]] Article 6 of this Law.” This paragraph should be deleted because the transit issue is fully settled in Article 5, which is an unnecessary paragraph. And that's what the Ministry of Transport and the Asmap paid attention to. So given what I've heard and taking into account technical processing, you see, there are technical observations by the Chief Legal Authority, they're put in the appendix to the comparative table. I would ask the Supreme Council to support this law in the second reading and to adopt it as a whole. This law awaits our motorists. It is, once again, very important for reducing both the tax burden and bringing international transport standards to the conventions that we joined back in 2004. The report is complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u210	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I will now go through the amendments before the vote then. Dear colleagues, let's go through the amendments. Counted. Counted. The 7th Anatoly of Seminoga is rejected. Is Anatoly Seminoga insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u211	It's included in another law that we passed with you earlier this past week.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u212	Right. Correction of the eighth Yuri Carmazin. Yuri Anatolyevich, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u213	Yuri Carmazin. I asked the question that the words “international freight consignment note” should be replaced by the words “international car consignment note”. Which is why I came out of article 9 of the Ukrainian Transport and Expediture Act. In case Sergey Anatoliyovich says that international approaches to definitions have now been changed, then I would like to ask him that we need to amend the Transport and Expedition Act, obviously. Yes or no, Sergey Anatolyovich? And then I don't see the need to vote for my amendment. However, I have a question to Sergey Anatoliyovich, which comes from the fact that in the observations of the scientific and legal administration and in the text that I read, we've seen that we've increased a lot from what wasn't conceptually voted in the first reading. In fact, we've increased the law three times conceptually, not accepting these things. I'd like a few strokes of amendment so that I can determine how to vote. I'm not in the correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u214	Yuri Anatoliyovich, the name of the product “transport consignment note” is a general description of various consignment notes or cardboards. You and I, remember, discussed the past week when we made decisions about Carnetata, which replaces three different documents in force today. So you can accept, if you have to, it's not in our committee's jurisdiction to change the profile law, but then you have to write down all the kinds of freight consignment notes that are currently being used in practice. Regarding the changes that have been made to this bill. They were being urged by transporters. What are we talking about? We had no settled issues of international repair. So imagine, we're taking, let's say, locomotives to the Russian Federation to repair them. After they have been imported back, according to today’s rules, they have to be taxed, taxed, excise, and so forth, that is double. We said that if a vehicle was exported in a customs operation according to the Ukrainian Customs Code, then if it was returned, it was not an object of taxation. A position was also added on financial lysing and operational lysing of Ukrainian equipment abroad. Today, too, there's a paradox when, let's say, Ukrainian equipment is exported in operating lysis mode beyond the limits to use, you know, there's drilling facilities, there's transport equipment, and when they're imported back, customs insist on paying the added cost of duty for actually a product that's not passed into the property of another person. So it's adjusted. There's also a question in the equation of sending and sending modes, well, these. And so on. So the regimes are compared, they're consistent with the Customs Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u215	Thank you. Yuri Anatolyevich, are you satisfied? Then, dear fellows, all the amendments have been considered. Before the vote, Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u216	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I would just like to remind you just before the vote, to some reporter, where the law came from and where it needed to be adopted. You remember in the winter, you remember the blockade of the capital of Ukraine, you remember the blockade of the most important transport connections of our nation, when motorists and international and domestic motorists came up against some of the decisions that unfortunately were taken in the Supreme Council without thinking about what went through the laws, and they were meant to dramatically reduce the profitability of these particular areas. We were all alone with you at the time, and the only thing we needed to do was fix the situation. It's very good that the government understood this because you see that this is a government bill, and so I would like to ask, let's really consolidate now to support this, quite mass, part of our society that's busy, exactly our own producer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u217	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u218	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u219	I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u220	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u221	I would only like to stress once again what we should accept, I would like to adopt this bill, taking into account the deletion, once again under the transcript, of the last paragraph of paragraph 6.2. 4, and taking into account the technical work on the observations made by the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u222	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general as a bill of the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Value Added Tax, registration number 3552. [[on taxation of international transport services]] Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u223	The committee's asking for support. [[13:06:34]] For three hundred
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u224	The law is passed. The draft Law on Supplements and Amendments to the Ukrainian Family Code and Criminal Code, registration number 2046, is being announced for consideration. [[concerning adoption]] The rapporteur is Yuri Romanovich Miroshnichenko, head of the Committee on Legal Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u225	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. You remember that the Supreme Council supported the bill in nearly 400 votes on the first reading as a basis. What is the point of this bill? First of all, I want to remind our citizens of it. This is a very important problem, the problem of adoption. And today we have a lot of signals that children who are adopted don't get the parental care that the state is counting on when it gives them that right. There are even violent cases where these children are being used for some, say, medical needs. I don't want to get that much worse. And according to our national MPs, we've taken the initiative, we've adopted on the first reading, as I said, over 400 votes, and we're going out on the second reading, where we're very clear on who can't be the person that. The adoptive parent or caregiver and so on, that is, those who gain custody of the child. We exclude from the Criminal Code where fines are concerned, and we leave only by taking away the will. And we ideologies before allowing adoption, we commit the adoption body to address the Ministry of Internal Affairs and get information not only about whether the person who tries to adopt has a criminal record but also whether he has been convicted because the case is being dismissed, but the conviction for crimes against the person when they have been convicted of crimes involving custody of the child and so on. So this ideology, which was founded by the authors, it's completely preserved, we put it right in the final form, and, dear fellows, I am absolutely convinced that with regard to this bill, there will be unity in the room, because that unity that we demonstrated at the first reading guarantees me and the confidence that we will accept it today as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u226	Dear colleagues, the adjustments that are taken into account, and they are all taken into account, either entirely or partially, who of the colleagues insists on the right hand of the speech if they do not take partial account of its correction. You don't? Yuri Carmazin, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u227	Yuri Carmazin. I would like to thank Yuri Romanovich for drafting this bill, he's almost brilliantly prepared, there's one comment that. I'm talking to the entire room and to you directly. We wrote it down in the first reading. adopted article 212, paragraph 9, “have been tried for crimes against the life and health of the person”. As amended by Carmazin, paragraph 6, reads: “There has been a case of crimes against the life and health of the person, against the will, honor, dignity,” and so on. What did they do on the committee now? The committee noted in paragraph 10: “You have been convicted of serious or particularly serious crimes against life”, that is, you have reduced these people. And it's quite right for the judiciary to write, paragraph 10, to put it in such an editorial form, that is to say, the legal administration: “have, at the time of adoption, custody, care, care, or the primary order of the proceedings for committing a deliberate crime against the life and health of the person, against the will, honour and dignity”, that is, not only is it difficult, but also for others. And I'd like to ask you to change.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u228	Allow me to complete the formulation. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u229	Thank you. Carmazine. I'd like to change this point because the one that's counted is the tenth, well, worse than the one that was offered by me and offered by the legal authorities. I think we need to replace this point, and the law is perfectly simple. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u230	Yuri Romanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u231	Yuri Anatoliovich, I would like to thank you publicly for the active participation you have made in the drafting of this bill. I'll explain to you the logic of the committee. First of all, the legal department is talking about, they have a trial. And we say we've been convicted. From a legal point of view, that's a significant difference. After all, “judgment” and “convicted” – the case is dismissed, the conviction. What she used to be, she stays. With regard to the list of all the articles, it is in the articles we list that all of this is about. We just put it that way. I can agree. If we take away the word “condemned for being heavy or especially heavy”, we are talking about. “have been convicted of crimes against life and actions.” We can agree on that, but there's a list. If this is accepted, it also preserves the logic that you proposed and the one that we viewed on the committee as the idea and ideology of the bill. If such amendments are accepted, I think so. I'm back on the stenographer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u232	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u233	Paragraph 10 of the first part of article 212 reads: “. have been convicted of crimes against life, health, will, honour and dignity, sexual freedom and sexual integrity of a person, against public security, public order and morality, in the fields of drug use, psychotropic substances, their analogues or precursors, as well as crimes provided for in articles 148, 150, 150, 1, 164, 164, 166, 167, 169, 181, 187, 324, 442 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, or have unrequited or unrequited judiciality in the established law for the commission of other crimes.” That is, all the crimes, we're actually being tried, we're prohibiting them at all, and those that have already been cleared, but have. were convicted of all these crimes, and we, in fact, restrict them to the right to be adoptives. Dear colleagues, I very much ask you to support this very bill, because it has an impact on the fate of children who are defenceless. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u234	Okay. Andrew Shevchenko, please, what kind of amendment does this refer to?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u235	Especially on this subject. Let's go back to philosophy. Yes, we were talking about having a child in order to be homo sapiens with two legs, two hands. But we wanted to limit the right to adopt only those who had serious crimes. Now we're going to report that we have a person who once stole a hat or who was taken to the police for a box, I don't know what kind of drug weed there, that she won't have the right to adopt a child either. It was serious crimes — crimes against life, against sexual freedom. It seems to me that with all due respect for the philosophy offered by Mr. Carmaniz, I would still leave the right of other people to adopt children.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u236	If you'll excuse me. Allow me, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u237	Yes, please, Yuri Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u238	So, Mr. Andrey. By the way, it's the drafter of the bill, and I'm also grateful that he put it on. Mr. Andrey, I'll read the text. See, it is not just crimes that are serious, or especially serious, but crimes against life, health, will, honor, dignity, sexual freedom, and sexual integrity. I mean, by the logic you're proposing, we don't extend it at all to crimes that might be. But only those who can influence the child’s upbringing.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u239	Dear colleagues! I'm asking for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u240	So this is about public security somewhere and public order. Dear colleagues! If public security and public order, you can consider it, you can exclude it, you can leave it. Then not only serious or particularly serious crimes, as suggested by Yuri Anatolyovich. Mr. Andrey, I think you need to respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u241	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! I will read again this amendment, which has the right to life, and it is the right one. Because when we trust a child, it must be a person who is blameless. It is proposed that the right to adopt persons who have been convicted of crimes against life and health, will, honour and dignity, sexual freedom and sexual integrity, against public security, public order and morality, drug, psychotropic substances, their analogues or precursors, as well as crimes provided for in articles 148, 150, 150-1, 164, 166, 167, 167, 169, 181, 187, 324, 442 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code be deprived of their rights under the established law of criminal justice for other crimes. It's okay here.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u242	Questions of public safety and public order. We discussed the subject on the committee, examined it, and concluded that it would be better to avoid it. Andrew, I'd like to support you. If we're going to have a precedent for this, then maybe we're going to consider excluding these norms. And for the time being, I think we're really better off being scared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u243	Dear colleagues, I would like to support, please note, the 10th amendment to the editorial paper, which was presented by the reporter and repeated by me. The meeting is about to end, and then we'll put it to a vote, because there won't be a decision now. Dear colleagues, can we put an amendment to the vote? Let's be clear now, I'll put an amendment to the vote as required by that rule. Sergei Anatoliyovich, please let us vote. Once again, I'm putting an amendment to the vote, I'm putting it out, I'm asking you to support it. They do not have the right to adopt a person, paragraph 10, who has been convicted of crimes against life and health, will, honour and dignity, sexual freedom and sexual integrity, against public security, public order and morality, drug, psychotropic substances, their analogues or precursors, as well as crimes provided for in articles 148, 150, 150-1, 164, 164, 166, 167, 169, 181, 187, 324, 442 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, or who are not executed in accordance with the legal order for the commission of other crimes. Please support this amendment. [[13:19:51]] For 213 So why didn't we support this amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u244	Let them express what their claims are.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u245	I am voting on the return to this amendment. This is Amendment 6, Yuri Karmazin, paragraph 10. [[13:20:25]] For 232 We're back on track. I'd like to say again, dear colleagues, or let's work like this. You listen to the amendment I'm putting to the vote, and you're going to clarify the party relationship. It's a law that people need. We returned to this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please vote. [[13:21:01]] For 258.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u246	Dear colleagues! There are no complications, as I've just heard, that's not the correction you're thinking of.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u247	For 258, the amendment was voted on. All other amendments are included. I am voting on the proposal of a second reading committee and, in general, as the Act, the draft Law on Supplements and Amendments to the Ukrainian Family Code and Criminal Code on Adoption. [[Registration number 2046]] Please vote. [[13:21:36]] For 377 The law is passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u248	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u249	A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the determination of the jurisdiction of land affairs is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is a member of the Justice Committee, Pritika Dmitry Mikitovich, please. Who will report from the committee? There's no report. We're taking this bill off the table. The second bill is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the introduction of an automated documentary system in administrative courts. [[4324]] Justice Committee, Portnov Andry Volodymyrovich. None, not a table. We're taking it off the table. The two bills are 1047, 4324 out of consideration. It's being announced. Attention, please. – Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the organisation and holding of the final part of the 2012 European Football Championship in Ukraine, 4397. [[new editor]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask that you be reminded that last plenary week this law has been passed and at the same time has been commissioned by a short-term committee to prepare it for consideration at this plenary week. At the same time, I inform you that we have received, or the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a letter informing us that so far the positive decision is in Kiev, two other cities, they are, on condition, three conditionally supported and if the necessary requirements are not met and the necessary work is not done, Ukraine will not be able to see this event, which is supposed to be consolidating for Ukraine. At the same time, we need to adopt such a law as is necessary in order for the Supreme Council to ensure that the necessary work is done. You've got the right table, do we have the opportunity to go over this project? Please, who will report from the committee? Head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism, Paul Ivanovich Kostenko Please. Let's calmly, carefully, responsibly now consider this document.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u250	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! A committee to enforce a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine worked on the draft bill within a week. I would like to express my deep appreciation to our Chief Legal Office, who has provided tangible help in this matter. As far as the bill is concerned. In an advanced version of the Committee's beliefs, the bill's standards are answered when it is adopted and the main issue of Ukraine's implementation of the 2012 UEFA guarantees for the preparation and the final part of the European Football Championship. The bill had 81 proposals, the 14th, the 41st, the 42nd, the 53rd, the 74th, which is 5 proposals rejected. The amendments are rejected because the articles to which they are made are removed from the law. The number 14 paragraph 5 has been rejected, since article 17 “The order of circulation of tickets during the championship” has been deleted because the right to sell tickets belongs to UEFA, both in Poland and in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u251	Paul Ivanovich, let's go, I'm sorry. Let's go like this: we're going to go after the amendments, if there's no comments on the amendments -- we're going through them; if there's any comments -- we're going to talk about them, you're going to argue about the position of the committee. Whoever insists on the correction, he's giving his vision, so we'll get through it faster. No objections? So let's do the repairs. Dear colleagues, 1st, 2nd amendment, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th, 12th amendment counted. 13th Amendment counted. The 14th is rejected. National Deputy Karpuk, would you please not insist? Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u252	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I do not urge the nations to amend and the following, which have been turned down to shorten the debate.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u253	Thank you for understanding. 15th, 16th, 17th revisions counted. 18th, 19th counted. 20th and 21st accounted for. 22nd, 23rd count. 24th. 25th, 26th, 27th, 28th, 29th, 30th, 31st, 32nd, 33rd. 34th, 35th, 36th, 37th, 38th, 39th, 40th counted. 41st overturned. Console Eugenius, are you insisting on her? No, it's not. The 42nd National MP, Karpuk, has removed his amendments. Yes. 43rd, 44th, 45th, 46th, 47th, 48th, 49th, 50th, 51st, 52nd, 53rd. Counted. Uh, 52nd, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u254	Dear colleagues, I wanted to draw your attention to the 52nd amendment and ask Vladimir Mikhailovich to confirm it because I think we should reject this amendment. The government has offered us this logic in dealing with land that is being eliminated for social purposes. So there is a clear logic that is foreseen in the government version, where the land purchase is done only by the consent of the landowner, there can be no wrongful action. It's all written down as it is in a civilized society. What do the authors of the amendment offer us? So any land of sports buildings, airports, their components, other objects of transport infrastructure, well that could be tens of thousands of hectares, I don't know how many, they're forced to remove. And in the event of the owner’s refusal, there is the right of the appropriate authority to make a decision on a compulsory ransom. Maybe it's someone who's building an organization in connection with the Euro. So I don't think we need to do the land redistribution. So I'm going to insist and I'm going to ask you to reject the 52nd amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u255	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u256	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, Reverend Mikola Volodymyrovich! The committee came from the point of view that there was very little time left for the final part of the European Football Championship, so if we did not write under the current legislation, we would delay in time, at least one year of dispute resolution on every part of the earth. That's why it was so written in the amendment that it was forced.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u257	Roman Tjak, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u258	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Roman Tkac, group “For Ukraine!” I fully support everything my colleague Mikola Tomenko has said, and I insist that 50, 51, 52nd be voted in the session room. Dear colleagues, honourable national deputies, especially I turn to the BUT faction, this bill was presented in the first reading by the Cabinet of Ministers. The entire procedure is detailed, and it states that the list of land removed for objects is approved by a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers. In fact, half-Ukraine can be eliminated by some standard monetary valuation, which is completely out of line with market prices. So I'm asking 50 and 51, 52 amendments to the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u259	Paul Ivanovich, please, once again, the position of the committee and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u260	The Committee once again insists on what has been written, and this is not only the opinion of the Committee, but also of the Supreme Council’s Legal Office, which sets out a special arrangement for the redemption of land for the period of preparation for Euro-2012. So the committee took these amendments into account. If contentious points continue to arise, we can simply change the law, but the law can be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u261	Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, you know that the bill is taken into account by the committee, and the deputies insist on voting, so it should be put to the vote, and if supported by a minimum of 226 votes, it is counted. Before the Sulkowski vote, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u262	Thank you. I fully support the previous speakers, Mr. Tomenko and Mr. Tucker. Which I don't support by name today's reporter who's reporting on the rostrum. Under the brand, Vladimir Mikhailovich, Euro-2012, thousands, tens of thousands of hectares of land can now be included in the program. And that's why I support Mr. Tomenko and Roman Tuck's position, and I ask you to vote, and everything will be fine, and time will suffice and so on. Let's just not let the board members sleep and so on, but they're working really hard on it, but they're civilized and they're not hurting people, and they're just trying to remove land for the benefit of some thug and so on. Today, there are many outstanding examples of such ones in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u263	Ivan Kirilenko, then Vladimir Yatsuba and we will vote. Dear colleagues, we've moved on to a discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u264	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, the amendment will not be supported in the hall. There will remain an editorial proposed by the government, where clear procedures for dealing with this problem are clearly laid down, in preparation for Euro-2012. Colleagues, we understand the committee, I'd like to do the most. We will go as the book says, and the book says as the government suggested in the first reading and what was voted in the hall. Please put it to the vote and move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u265	Vladimir Grigorovich Yatsuba, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u266	Well, I totally support everyone. Indeed, the government has proposed a faithful standard, and for history, would you like the reporter to name the name of the one who brought such an amendment, and who should be asked to remove the plots and make money? Please give me the name of the person who made the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u267	You have all the tables, the authors of the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u268	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Here's a whole group of national MPs that you have in your handout, and please look at the 50th, 51st, 52nd amendment, there's these names. There's a whole group of national deputies. Come on, please, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u269	Do you have these adjustments that you insist on? You've been given these amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u270	I call the amendments at the request of national deputy Vladimir Grigorovich Yatsuba, I call the names of national deputies: Kostenko, Volkov, Ivanenko, Tedeev, Safiulin, Lukyanova, Najdionov, Suslov. All of it. Dear colleagues, I vote in favour of Amendment 50. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:34:34]] For 1 The decision is not taken. May I have your attention, fellow officers? We're discussing a serious bill. Amendment 51. I'm also putting her to a vote to support, so I'm asking you to identify yourself. [[13:35:01]] For two. Correction not supported. Now it's amendment number 52. I'm voting for her support, please vote. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry, the authors of the amendment. [[13:35:23]] For 1 Correction not supported. Let's keep going. Amendment 53. Comrade Karpuk does not insist. Now, let's get to 54. Amendment 54. The committee counted. Who denies it? Please, Carmazin and Roman Tuck.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u271	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I am firmly against Amendment 54. She did. The point is to exclude article 11. Article 11 that was adopted with us in the first reading of the government bill was that of creating a list of land for the construction of the championship objects. Here again: The purchase of land for the construction of the championship objects included in the census and so on, financed exclusively by budget funds, is being done by January 1, 2011. The list of these areas is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. The authors suggest that this article be excluded, and then anarchy and what we have already fought against. Amendments 51 and so on. Therefore, I ask for confirmation of these amendments by Kostenko Pavel Ivanovich, Volkova, Ivanenko, Tadejeva, Safiulina, Lukyanova, Najdionova, Suslov, and to delete this amendment and thus to leave active article 11, adopted in the first reading, which is completely correct in constitutional terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u272	Committee position, please. I'm sorry, Roman Tuck, you're on this. Also a similar position? Well, you support, then please, the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u273	The commission committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine met twice under this law, and by nightfall, together with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, with the coordinating office, with the committee and with all interested persons, considered these amendments as well as with regard to article 54. There were no questions raised before amendment 54 to the Committee and the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u274	Dear colleagues, at the request of the National MP, I am voting in favour of Amendment 54. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:37:52]] For-0 The amendment is not counted accordingly. 55 readjustments included. 56th count, 57th.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u275	74th next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u276	54th, she's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u277	74th, next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u278	No, well, we'll go now so it doesn't. 55th, accounted for. 56th, accounted for. 57, accounted for. 58, accounted for. 59th, accounted for. The '60s is accounted for. 61, 62, 63 readjustments included. 66th Amendment accounted for. 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72. 72nd, please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u279	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Head, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the 72nd Amendment applies to the final clauses when the law takes effect and how far it works. According to the logic we all accepted in the first reading, the law took effect from the day of publication, except for the part of the sixth article 15 of this law, which takes effect on January 1, 2011. The same amendment now shows that it has been in operation, has been effective since its publication, and is no longer valid on September 1, 2012. So the logic of what the government was proposing is changing and relative, and including with regard to article 15 of this law also changing in its original form, I'm referring to article 15. This is about the visa regime, the employment permits during the organization, the preparation and the holding of the Championship. I insist that the vote be put to the vote and confirmed, and left as it was in the original edition, that from the day of publication, except for the part.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u280	Please, the position of the committee, Paul Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u281	Clearly, we accept this law to give guarantees to UEFA. Today, stadiums are being built, and in some places we are lagging behind those schedules that we have not yet identified by November 30 with the final list of cities that will host the European Championship, the final part of the European Football Championship. Therefore, it is clear that this law takes effect from the day it was published as a guarantee to UEFA and falls into effect on September 1, 2012 after two. the end of two weeks after the championship.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u282	At the same time, however, the committee noted that the committee was operating on an untimely basis. How's that? Look. Yeah, yeah, that's right. Yuri Anatolyevich, here, in principle, is correct. This law takes effect from the day it was published and falls into effect two weeks after the championship. What else do you need? What do you suggest? Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u283	Dear National Deputies! The law we passed says it takes effect from the day of publication, except for part six of article 15, which takes effect on January 1, 2011. This is what the first reading says. That's absolutely right. I say, not when the law fails, but when the law becomes effective, what we have to write down here. It says here that everything comes into effect from the day of publication. Do you understand what the question is? That's why it's so much the opposite. So I suggest you leave it as it was accepted in the first reading, this is balanced, well-founded, well-submitted by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u284	I'm voting on Amendment 72. Please. [[13:42:37]] For 1 Thus, honourable colleagues, this law takes effect from the day it was published, except for part six of article 15 of this law, which takes effect on January 1, 2011. And together with the end of this law, we don't define the term. Right? Please, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u285	Dear colleagues! We did not understand a bit, so Yuri Anatolyevich spoke to us and we succumbed to his plots. If we don't put a dot, when this law stops working, it will work forever, and under this law, any body of the European Football Federation can go into our country and do whatever it wants without taxes, without customs and so on and so forth. So I propose, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to return to voting on this amendment and to support the amendment of the committee, not what Karmazin said. Please come back.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u286	Vladimir Matviychuk, Vladimir Makarovich from the government, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u287	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Very right now it was said about the conclusion of this law, so you can do it this way. To accept this text: This law takes effect from the day it was published and is no longer valid on September 1, except for the part of the sixth article 15 of this law, which takes effect on January 1, 2011. And the general law ends by September 1, 2012.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u288	Please, Terjehohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u289	You can agree with the Ministry of Finance's offer, but it's a little off-limits. Take the left column and add: “ and loses its validity on September 1, 2012. That's the first one. Secondly, if we're inserting a deadline for this law, then part two, chapter two, where taxes are concerned, we also have to write in every tax change that these benefits work until September 1, 2012. There is no such thing as a colossion that the law itself will lose force on September 1, 2012, and the changes to tax law will remain forever. That is why all the articles have to be distributed there.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u290	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention, please? Let's do this now. If the law loses action, both taxes are lost, and everything else that has been fixed is said by the lawyers, because we cannot prescribe for each article when it loses a norm. Then let's write it as proposed by the government, and the national MPs, this law takes effect from the day it was published, except for part six, article 15 of this law, which takes effect on January 1, 2011. And the law generally loses its validity on September 1, 2012, dot. Please, the committee again.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u291	I point out simply to articles 15 and 6, paragraph 6, that foreigners and stateless persons are involved in commercial partners, in a company appointed by persons to do jobs or to provide services related to the organization of training and the holding of a championship without permission of employment. We're proposing this amendment from January 1, 2011, and we're building both airports and stadiums with the involvement of foreign professionals. So we're up for six months. Therefore, the committee insists on taking into account the amendment of the committee itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u292	Please tell me, and if the government offered, but the government did, it did come out for some reason. Please, Matwijczyk Vladimir Makarovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u293	When the bill was drafted, it appeared that this visa-free regime, introduced by this article, would take effect from January 1, 2012.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u294	So we have a colossal, distinguished colleagues. The committee suggests simply writing it down, this law takes effect from the day it was published and goes out of force on September 1, 2012. So I'm going to put this amendment to the vote. Have we voted yet? We didn't vote. So let's do it this way, dear fellows, now I propose we go back to looking at this amendment, and we'll come back. Then I'm going to put to the vote the support committee's proposal if it's not supported -- the committee's proposal, namely, that this law takes effect from the day it was published and loses effect on September 1, 2012. If it's supported, this position remains, if it's not supported, then we'll make such a decision that this law takes effect on the day of its publication, except for part 6 of article 15 of this law, which takes effect on January 1, 2011. And the law loses all validity since September 1, 2012. Then it will be. That's right. So I'm putting to the vote the motion for a return to review Amendment 72, please support the return. [[13:48:50]] For 340. We're back on track. For consideration of this amendment. I now put to the vote the committee's proposal, which the committee took into account: “This law takes effect from the date of its publication and loses effect on September 1, 2012”. Your motivation has been proven.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u295	It's a friend.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u296	This is the second amendment. [[13:49:30.]] For-189 This amendment is not supported. Then there is an amendment to the content that was supported by the government, so I understand. This law takes effect from the day it was published, except for part 6 of article 15 of this law, which takes effect on January 1, 2011. The law goes into effect on September 1, 2012. [[B in m in s a l in]] What? Well, the government is proposing this kind of amendment. Well, cancel the vote, please. Anatoly Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u297	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" Block. Vladimir Mikhailovich, maybe I don't understand, but we're voting the right part as a law, and the left part is really article 15 and on the right hand side as a law is already article 12, as far as I can see. I want to ask, would it not create a coalition if we voted for this rule of law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u298	The point is, the honourable colleagues, that the right part of where this is about, this law takes effect from the day it was published, and loses its validity on September 1, the committee counted, but the Supreme Council of Ukraine did not support it. Then we go back to the amendment that was proposed by the government, but at the same time we make a decision to limit the operation of this law after the football championship and all. Therefore, the vote is once again, please note, this law takes effect on the day of its publication, except for part 6 of article 15 of this law, which takes effect on 1 January 2011, and the law is no longer in force on 1 September 2012. Government, I'm asking, is this the right thing to do? Vladimir Makarovich, is the government in charge? I want to read it again so that we don't come back and vote. May I have your attention, please? This law takes effect on the day of its publication, in addition to part 6 of article 15 of this Law, which takes effect on January 1, 2011, and the law goes out of force on September 1, 2012. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u299	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, notes in section 6 of article 15 that foreigners and stateless persons are involved in a company that is appointed by persons to do work or to provide services related to the organization of preparation and the holding of the championship without permission of employment. So we're voting on this amendment that you said, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, it's going to mean that by 1 January 2011, if there are such cases, they'll be allowed to work in Ukraine, and after 1 January 2011, without permission. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u300	Do you support me?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u301	We'll back it up, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u302	I put to the vote this amendment, which has been repeatedly made and supported by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Please vote. [[13:53:08]] For 370. Decision taken. Now, Your Honor. 73 counts. You see, you say it in general. Please, Roman Tchac.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u303	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. Please, we'll stop for a moment. You and I have accepted an editorial proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers. Where there is a clear procedure for the redemption of land. Amendment 73 says you have to throw out an article, part two of Article 134. I'm now, well, I don't have the Earth Code under my hands, but remember, in 134, I think it's about a land ransom on a competitive basis. I'd like to ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, or I'd like you to assign to the Legal Office right now -- 73 amendments and 75 amendments. We've accepted the option offered by the Cabinet of Ministers. Then by this logic, we have to make sure that these amendments are rejected. But I do not remember now 146 and 143 articles of the Codex earth. Please give me an assignment. Because I'm afraid that now that we don't do it, we're just balancing the Earth Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u304	Please, this is the committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u305	This amendment is also taken into account because changes to the Earth Code have been removed, since the law imposes a temporary rule of article 8 of the ransom of land in the same law. And it's prescribed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u306	Dear colleagues, announcements. We continue our work for 15 minutes. And I want to say, if you're the ones that aren't supported, they're technically going to be taken into account. So here's the problem, I don't think so. Please, it's Roman Tuck's microphone. Now, one minute. We're going to find out.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u307	Vladimir Mikhailovich, see, I am reading in the left column: in article 146, the first part is to complete the “e” point: “under the objects necessary to prepare for the final part of the 2012 European Football Championship in Ukraine”. I think that's the language that's going to go through these objects without a competition, and we're saying that this part has to be ruled out. We're contradicting ourselves. So I'd like to ask now, literally, 15 minutes for the Legal Service to take the Earth Code now and see which one is clearly to write us an amendment because we've accepted the option proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u308	Please, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u309	Martinyuk, the Communist faction. I am completely in solidarity with my colleague and with the position of chairman. But in order to be clean, really, if we've ruled out the previous rules, then in legal form, we have to take the next one into account, so that it's not balanced. But in order to be clean, I support this amendment to vote for support and not to support it, because we've already taken those positions away, so leave it as it is on the left, because it's balanced with what we voted on. So let's put it to a vote of support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u310	Yuri Carmazin, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u311	Honorable National MPs. Yuri Carmazin. I want to draw your attention to what Adam Ivanovich and Roman Tuck have just said right now about what is now being suggested in fact from the closing positions to rule out the changes that we have made to the Earth Code and to rule out those changes. This is about what? With regard to the procedure for the redemption of land required for preparation for implementation, the law provides for this to be excluded. It also excludes changes, additions to article 34. Thus, amendments 73, 74, and 75 should be made to support their hall, three amendments. The 74th unprinciple, where the “procedure” is replaced by “order”. God be with him, no 74th. The 73s and the 75s have to be removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u312	Dear colleagues, let me put it this way, once again, I would like to say that you and I voted in favour of the paper on land issues that was proposed by the committee. Now I'm going to do it again. I'm asking you not to help me, I once did. which was proposed by the government. And so we're going to bring all the other positions into line. If we start fantasizing and voting right now, we're going to stress a lot more. If when we work on the finals in preparation for the signature, we see that there are actually colossals there, let's say tomorrow we can put the clarification in place and vote it out. But right now, we don't need to have the right fantasies. Well, please don't yell, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u313	Dear colleagues, I don't think we're going to find out to clean up the experiment and then there's no discussion, we're going to be 73, we're going to be 75 now or we're not going to confirm it, because then we're going to have an editorial discussion, and then there's going to be another mess. So, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'd like us to ask the 73rd now, 75th -- this is how we're going to take the question down. Clearly, the mood of the session room -- we don't support these amendments, of course, because we've offered another version, and not to pass it on to the apparatus, not to create problems for them and for us. So I propose a vote of 73 and 75.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u314	Dear colleagues, let's do it this way, there's nothing we can do on the way. I'll vote in favour of Amendment 73, please. [[13:59:48]] For 1 The decision is not taken. I now vote in favour of amendment 75. [[14:00:07]] For-0 76th. 77th Amendment. 77th, please, Sergey Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u315	Ladies and gentlemen, pay attention to what is proposed here. We have in this paragraph the second chapter of the Second Employment Promotion Act, yes, the anti-crisis article on restrictions on the involvement of foreigners in Ukraine. It is suggested that these restrictions simply be lifted. I would understand how it would be for those who work for Euro-12, then this should not be taken down. Well, we'll be working against our employees. And to write, if there's a need for Euro-12, to refer to that part of the sixth article of January 15th, we debated it. And there are those foreigners who will be involved in the Euro-12 work. But how can you invite foreigners here in such circumstances without paying attention to the occupation of Ukrainians?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u316	Ivan Kirilenko. Well, they wanted to do better, and it worked out as usual.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u317	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! We settled this issue with a previous vote, so to delete this amendment, it lost validity and relevance, because we settled the issue with a previous vote when we listened to the government's position, how much the law works when the relevant rule for the work of foreigners is introduced without permission, and when with permission. Thus, this amendment loses all meaning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u318	Paul Ivanovich, please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u319	The committee's position was that this amendment was accompanied by a bill amending certain taxation laws during the final part of Euro-2012 football in Ukraine. [[Registration number 2372]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u320	Dear colleagues, come on, I put to the vote to follow the rules. I vote in favour of Amendment 77. Please make up your mind. [[2:02:39]] For two. Correction not supported. Amendment 78. Amendment 79. Amendment to the '80s. Teryohin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u321	This is due to the fact that tax laws are again adopted by non-professional committees. Take a look at the 80s, please. It appears to coincide with a guarantee letter issued by the UEFA Ministry of Finance. With the exception of a small trifle. Look. The tax on the income of natural persons is exempt from UEFA employees -- right, accredited delegations -- right. And then what wasn't in the guarantee letter, and UEFA didn't ask for it. It's written, it doesn't pay the VAT, it's tax on the income of the Physosibs, and it doesn't pay the employees of UEFA-authorized companies. UEFA authorizes only one orgcommittee. And there are Ukrainian residents who have to pay taxes like everyone else. So if you support this, then I'll call it off. it is necessary to exclude the term “employees authorised by the UEFA companies”. This leads completely to guarantees.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u322	Let me finish. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u323	This leads to the release of a fully guaranteed letter from the Ministry of Finance to UEFA. I'd like the Ministry of Finance to confirm what I'm saying or to refute.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u324	Please, Matthew Vladimir Makarovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u325	Ladies and gentlemen, we will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u326	The deletion of the words “employees authorized by UEFA companies”. Yeah? Yeah? Please, the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u327	I understand both Sergei Teryochin and Mr. Matwiyczyk that it's here. It seems that it is not a professional committee, but the committee has concluded that no decisions are made today without a representative or an UEFA employee or a stadium building or an airport building with its requirements and standards. Therefore, given that employees authorized in UEFA make up no more than 15 persons from the day of the law’s entry into force and until the moment, we could not register. 15 people.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u328	Please, Terjehohin and once again microphone. Then you will be, won't you? Then Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u329	Well, Your Honor, don't confuse the hall, please. That's what you're talking about in another term, representatives, or officials of UEFA member associations and individuals accredited by UEFA. About these 15 of you, and where it's written, to representatives of UEFA-authorized companies, tomorrow there'll be a catering company that has McDonald's using income tax benefits, among other things, the Ukrainian resident. That's why we don't have to confuse the hall. It's all about UEFA, except for those companies that are authorized.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u330	I'm not confusing the hall, I'm coming out of the committee's conclusions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u331	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u332	Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u333	There's an offer to support Sergio Teryochina and Minfin, because clearly, maybe the committee didn't get it. I don't see any evil in here. But today I'm informing you that we already have companies working with Ukraine's budget. Clearly, then, UEFA will confirm them. What difference does it make? For example, the government has allocated funds for advisory services for the construction of NCCs, the total will be 15.5 million. This company works, it's authorized. So they're not supposed to pay our tax money? So, guys, I think it's a coincidence, of course. But I also strongly insist that companies that are listed as friends of UEFA, who work in Ukraine, cannot pay our taxes when, more and more, they use budget costs. So clearly we have to remove it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u334	Dear colleagues, I propose to proceed in this way, I will put to the vote support for the amendment in part, I read: “to employees authorised by UEFA companies”. If the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not support it, then these representatives fall out of tax and all. No objections? That's why I'm putting to the vote, in Amendment 80, on supporting the sentence: “the employees of UEFA-authorised companies”. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:07:33]] For two. That's all there is to it. Correction. Are you okay? Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, please. That's the 80th amendment. Martinyuk microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u335	Thank you. In principle, here is the following sentence also for “representatives or officials of the UEFA Association”, I think it should stay because it is no longer an organization.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u336	Dear colleagues, now please. I'll put this amendment in the '80s, and please. We need to vote it out, confirm it, right? No, no, we need to confirm it. We removed it here, we need to confirm this amendment. I am betting on the vote amendment No. 80 to support it, taking into account that the sentence “to employees authorised by UEFA companies” has been deleted. Please vote. [[14:08:44]] For 359 Correction supported. Dear colleagues, all the other amendments do not raise objections? Please, Paul Ivanovich, offer the committee last.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u337	The committee proposes to adopt the amended bill as a whole as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u338	Yes, please, Tomenko before the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u339	Dear colleagues, since the matter is serious enough, we have worked hard. My suggestion is to vote on the second reading and to give experts and lawyers the opportunity to work on agreeing on what we have said. If there are no moments left, we can vote in general tomorrow. Because I think there's a lot of differences between what the committee's offered and what we're voting on right now, so we don't come back and clean up. One day doesn't give anything. In the second vote today, and in general, we will vote tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u340	Please, Vitaly Corge. Victor Corge, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u341	Victor Corge, Party of Regions. Dear colleagues, distinguished Paul Ivanovich, Vladimir Mikhailovich! I would like to draw attention to this very important detail: Three Ukrainian governments provided guarantees to UEFA. And including those issues that we've just been talking about, and the tax issue. We need to review again, and so that the standards that we are about to definitively incorporate into the law meet those guarantees in these chapters that have been given. For these to be synchronized formulations, synchronized approaches. It's going to be consistent and it's going to be solid on our side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u342	Paul Sulkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u343	Thank you. I'm sorry to take your time, but I, Vladimir Mikhailovich, want to confirm and support Mikola Tomenka. You know in this bill, only when the discussion took place for half an hour, there's already a hell of a lot of excuses out there that won't figure out what they were up to, what they canceled, what they took. And I really support that today it is simply not necessary to accept it as a whole. But to make the decision to process it as quickly as possible, the experts processed it and submitted it to the Supreme Council to confirm, really not to hold it for long.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u344	Adam Martinyuk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u345	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! I am convinced and convinced by the session room of those who listened to us that we have just taken this bill seriously, as nothing else. Because the fresh was a table, everyone had a table in front of their eyes, and I think we've removed all the points of the issue. If we take the second one now, we're going to be preparing for the third, fourth and tenth ones, then we're going to waste only time that we don't have. So I propose to support the committee and vote as a whole, as a law, the Legal Department, if we have before or after tomorrow, when we sign the notes, we can always get them pretty calmly eliminated in the session room. Let us, in general, vote as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u346	Ivan Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u347	Dear colleagues! Dear Head! Don't ask today's audience and Mikhailo Alexiyovich Tepluk, I'll tell him in front of the hall, I've had a consultation on the draft law. So you can totally hear the offer of Mikola Tomenka, let's just keep our hall as friendly as we have voted in an article-by-article search of every position. Let us vote in favour of adoption in the second reading, and in general tomorrow we shall vote first in the early session. Let the judiciary look again at every letter that we have today, and we have stressed that we do not come back, because we do not know which will be tomorrow or the next day. Today, to support Tomenko's proposal is to vote in the second reading, to demonstrate the good will. But once again, Mikhailo Alexiyovich, as a legal authority, every formulation, every position of the transcript, and tomorrow to vote at an early session and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u348	Dear colleagues, we have more than ever approached this bill in principle. Clearly, we need to make a balanced decision and not translate it into a political plane, for we are looking at what we will take, perhaps really agree to it. I'd like to ask Adam Ivanovich and the committee to agree, let's now vote on it in the second reading, and tomorrow morning, before we consider the questions, we'll finally vote on it. In order for us not to adopt the law again to change it, perhaps we have done something fiercely, perhaps some clarification will be needed. So I would like to support now the adoption of the draft law in second reading and tomorrow it will be the first, in the event of your positive approval, to consider this bill definitively. [[Registration number 4397]] I am voting on the second reading of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the organisation and holding of the final part of the 2012 European Football Championship in Ukraine, a new edition of the registration number, I remind you once again, 4397. [[14:14:18]] For 382 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, another request, we have a small law in our second reading. Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi asks a few words so that we can finally accept him. Just a minute. I continue for 15 minutes, we still have one minute, please, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u349	Dear colleagues, this is the bill of colleague Biruk, which amends the Labour Protection Act with regard to the requirements of the liberal system of economic activity. The comparative table committee approved the proposals. Please support the second reading of the bill amending articles 21 and 33 of the Labour Protection Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m0.u350	Dear colleagues! Let us conclude with a second reading of the bills by voting on this decision. I'll put it to a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] What? But I'm not doing anything. [[B in m in s a l in]] You have a note, please note yours. There's a note. Let's make a note. Come on. Sure. I would like to vote on the adoption of the second reading and generally as a bill of the draft Act amending articles 21 and 33 of the Ukrainian Labour Protection Act on the granting of work permits and the operation of equipment of increased risk. [[Registration number 1389]] Please vote. [[14:16:31]] For 303 The law is passed. Thank you. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Let's continue our plenary work, that is, our 16-hour meeting.
