ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u1	Invite the national deputies to the session room so that we can continue our work. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:00:49]] They registered cards in the 420 National Deputies Sessional Hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, we continue to consider the laws that the President of Ukraine has vetoed. The Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Grapes and Grapes, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 13.06.2007, has been announced for consideration. [[Registration number 0860]] The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the Ukraine's Slapak Secretary, Alexander Vitaliyovich. Is Alexander Vitaliovich here? And the co-reporter will be the deputy head of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, Ribuk Sergey Mikolaiovich. Dear colleagues, maybe we'll listen to the deputy head of the committee first, and then Slapak Alexander Vitaliyovich will come along, and we'll listen to the motivation of the President of Ukraine. Is there no objection? Sergei Mikolaiovich, I'm sorry, is Alexander Vitaliyovich. So let's listen to Alexander Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u2	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear National Deputies! In fact, the President's remarks to this law are quite contrary to what he has brought to the law of the previous, namely: the law proposes to amend the Ukrainian Law on Grapes and Wine, which, please note, excludes alcoholic beverages of grape origin such as vermouths and brandy from the scope of regulation of the law. Given that this Law “On Grapes and Wine” defines the quality requirements for raw materials and wine products used for the manufacture of vermouth and brandy, the storage conditions, the criteria under which these beverages are considered to be counterfeited, provide for monitoring compliance with the requirements of the law, lays down the responsibility for their infringements, the changes proposed by law will lead to irregularity of the specified issues, and this will in turn create conditions for the emergence in the Ukraine market of dangerous counterfeit alcoholic beverages called “Vermouth” and “Brandi”. Then, the president proposes to take his remarks into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u3	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Deputy Head of the Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee, Ribuk Sergey Mikolayovich. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u4	Honourable National Deputies, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations at its meeting, reviewed the proposals of the President of Ukraine to the Law on Amendments to the Law on Grapes and Wine. Alcoholic beverages such as vermouths and brandy are excluded from the scope of the Ukrainian Law on Grapes and Wine. However, in the view of the committee, it is this law that defines the quality of raw materials and wine products used for the manufacture of vermouth and brandy, the conditions for their storage and control of production, and the changes noted will lead to the emergence of dangerous counterfeit alcoholic beverages called Vermouth or Brandy in the Ukraine market. In the view of the committee, the emergence of counterfeit alcoholic beverages in the market may result in the exclusion of them from the Ukrainian Law “On Grapes and Wine” of a position that is prohibited from being used in general and in its own names of alcoholic beverages, the word “horses”, “champanian”. Then the provisions of the law under consideration do not correspond entirely to part four of article 42 of the Ukrainian Constitution, which protects the rights of consumers, controls the quality and safety of products. But after consulting the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, we agreed, and on the committee, the idea was that the President's proposals were largely sound, and they would be worth listening to and accepting in this case. In view of what has been said, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the proposal of the President of Ukraine to take into account the Law on Amendments to the Law on Grapes and Sold Wine. [[No. 0860]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u5	Dear colleagues, the committee proposes to take fully into account the President's proposals and adopt legislation that takes into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine. As President of Ukraine says, yes. Attention, fellow Members, and please support such an offer. A motion for the adoption of the Law is put to the vote in addition and clarifications proposed by the President of Ukraine. [[Registration number 0860]] Please vote. [[16:06:57]] For 301 The law is passed. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Civil Protection, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 14.10.2008, has been announced for consideration. Yeah, who's the reporter? It says here we have the Minister of Justice, Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich. We've come up with a coalition and we've had a proposal to the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council to determine whether today's constitutional realities can work and the previous practice that has been. I'm requesting a report from Calchenk Valery Mikhailovich. This is a committee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u6	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! On September 24, 2008, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted this law by 282 votes. The main purpose of this law is to bring Ukraine’s Law on the Legal Principles of Civil Protection into line with the requirements of the Second Act on Basic Principles of State Control, Control in the Field of Economic Activity and its Final Provisions. The introduction of changes will allow the legislative level to fully regulate the powers of government authorities in the area of civil protection and technological security, as well as in the field of fire safety, which are part of the Ministry of Emergency Situations. The President of Ukraine made a comment on this law, which unfortunately is not set out, and I want to put it out. The president believes that this law introduces a new government body and believes that citizens will be deprived of their rights. I would like to say that such a government body was created by decree of the Cabinet of Ministers on May 26, 2001, at number 576. The law is in agreement with the government, and it fully responds to reality. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council's Apparatus, referring to the Constitution and the rules of existing legislation, noted that in positions, the President's proposals set out a better basis for further improvement of responsibility in this area, rather than an argument for a rejection of this law. This is confirmed by the fact that according to article 92, paragraph 12, and article 120, the Constitutions of Ukraine are solely governed by laws by the organization, authority and order of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and other central and local executive authorities. This is what was done in this law, which makes it logically complete. The obligation to make such changes is also provided for in article 1 of the Ukrainian Act on Basic Principles of State Control, Control in the Field of Economic Activity, which defines State Oversight, Control as the activity of the statutory central executive authorities and their territorial bodies. Article four defines that solely by law authorities authorized to exercise State oversight and control in economic activities are established. Personally, I would like to point out that the legislation adopted does not provide for the creation of new government bodies and appropriate positions, as well as additional pressure on the State budget of Ukraine. The Environmental Policy Committee of February 18, 2009, after considering the proposals made by the President of Ukraine, proposes that they be rejected. Please support the committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u7	Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to defeat the President's veto on this bill. Is that what I'm saying?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u8	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u9	No, it's not. The point is that the President of Ukraine proposed that this law be rejected, and the committee suggested rejecting the President’s proposals, that is, overcoming the veto. Please, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u10	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, look at the table, the committee is deceiving you. The committee proposes not to overcome the veto, but the committee proposes new proposals, not by the President, but by members of the committee, that we do not have the right to do so in overcoming the veto. So you have to put it to a vote, or you have to say no to the proposals, you have to say no to the veto, you have to say no to the veto, and you have to put it to a vote, or you have to say no to the veto. Because here in the comparative table, look, Calchenko's making proposals, he's not the President yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u11	Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich, we will vote the first sentence -- to reject -- is the President's proposal. If it is not supported by the Supreme Council, it will vote on the second proposal – to overcome the veto. There will be no more votes on this subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u12	Vladimir Mikhailovich, and Adam Ivanovich, a comparative table to the second reading that we conducted and voted on. And we don't have any comparison tables right now. That's why we have to vote: either accept the President's proposals, or reject them, or take the veto. There are no comparison tables
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u13	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move forward in such a way that until we have dealt with the issue of who will present the proposals from the President of Ukraine, and the previous practice that the President entrusts his position to the members of the government continues, let's listen to them. I think by the next meeting we'll be settling this issue. It is quite obvious that this must be a special representative, an authorized representative of the President of the Supreme Council, who is to present these documents. Right? Now, please, Mikola Vasilovich Onichuk. The position on this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u14	The President of Ukraine notes that the Act adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 24 September 2008 amending the Ukrainian Law on Civil Protection cannot be signed on such grounds. First. The proposed amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Civil Protection Legal Principles establish that the Government authorities of civil protection and technological security authorities and the Government's Fire Safety Supervisory Authority are acting in the field of civil protection and security, as well as their organizational structure and authority. That is, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has practically decided to rename the first and form the second of the designated government bodies. In the meantime, according to the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the question of the establishment in the system of ministries of government, the approval of their position, the appointment and the release of the directors of these organs belong to the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And from this point of view, honourable colleagues may be appropriate to report these questions to a government member because they are a direct violation of the government's competence. The government authorities are responsible to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Under-Secretarys and the Under-Secretarys in whose system they are formed and functioning. It is known that this is part of the fifth and sixth articles of article 22 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The commitment of the Cabinet of Ministers to form one and rename the other, the government body, in fact, according to the Head of State, is an intervention in the operational activities of the Government of Ukraine, which will in the future virtually make it impossible for the Cabinet of Ministers to change the status of the relevant government body, its liquidation without amending the law. The solution to the question proposed by law, which is the way in which I draw your attention, the President points out that there is a problem, bearing in mind that a method that is not based on the requirements of current legislation has been proposed, can be considered as defining, in accordance with part one, paragraph 12 of article 92 and part two of article 120 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the organization of activities and powers of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. According to the Head of State, the failure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to comply with the requirements of articles 6 and 19 of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to which the authorities of Ukraine are bound to act only on grounds, within powers and in the manner provided for in the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. In addition, it should be noted that the extension of the powers of government officials in the area of civil protection and technological security and its territorial authorities in the absence of clear criteria for violations of civil protection and technological security requirements in the law, for which special measures may be taken to eliminate them, would lead to a deterioration of the entrepreneurial environment and, as a result, to the restriction of the constitutional right of citizens to entrepreneurial activity and to the creation of conditions for corruption. In connection with the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Civil Protection, the President proposes to reject it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u15	Thank you, Mikola Vasilovich. Have a seat, please. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. The first is a motion by the President of Ukraine to reject the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Civil Protection Law. [[Registration number 0939]] Take down the vote. Please. Valerius Mikhailovich, what do you have?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u16	Well, first of all, I'm surprised the procedure's broken.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u17	Why?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u18	And because the first one had to report to the representative of the President's Administration, not the minister. That's the first one. The other one. I understand that the minister of justice represents the government. I have a transcript of the last vote where the chairman asked the government representative: “Is this agreed with the government or not?” And they said, "Yes, it's agreed." I want to hand over, Mikola Vasilovich, to you right now, the government's decree of 2001, when an organ was created, and you say it wasn't created. It was created in 2001. I'm handing you this document.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u19	Dear colleagues, we have agreed with you that prior to the regular alignment of positions on the basis of who will report the President's proposals to the laws that he has applied to the veto, we will follow the procedure that has been followed. Moreover, the President of Ukraine, as far as I understand the Constitution, can authorize any person to represent his or her interests. Let's study this and find an agreed line. And now, honourable colleagues, the President of Ukraine's motion to reject the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Civil Protection Law is the first to vote. Registration number 0939. [[16:19:55]] For-45 The President's proposal is not supported. The proposal for a committee on the defeat of the veto of the President of Ukraine is submitted to the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Protection Act, Registration No. 0939. [[16:20:37]] For 345. Decision taken. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 12 of the Ukrainian Land Pay Act, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 05.02.2009, has been announced for consideration. Registration number 0908. Reporter - Minister for Family Affairs, Youth and Sports Yuri Alexiyovich Pavlenko
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u20	Honorable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies! Ukraine's Act on Amendments to Article 12 of the Land Pay Act, which was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 15 January of this year, provides for exemption from the payment of land taxes for physical and sporting subjects. And this is seen as important to the further development of sports facilities, Olympic bases, paralympic training, and, in general, an important law for the development of physical culture and sports. The President of Ukraine unquestionably supports the prescribed legislative act and believes that it is essential for the development of physical culture and sports. At the same time, he was not signed for such reasons. First of all, the Constitution guarantees the protection of the rights of all subjects of ownership and management, competition in entrepreneurial activities. Contrary to these constitutional rules, the law does not extend to enterprises, institutions, organizations, social organizations, physical and sports organizations, in which the land areas where the buildings used for the conduct of all-U.S. international competitions and the teaching and training process of national assembly teams, the Olympic and Paralympic bases are not owned, but are used. With this approach, the President of Ukraine cannot and proposes in paragraph 3 of the third law the words “that are in their possession” to be excluded. The Head of State also disagrees with the fact that, by providing for the right of individual subjects of physical and sporting orientation not to pay land taxes to the budget, the law does not define the directions for the use of unpaid land taxes, which may result in a non-target, or not for purposes related to the development of physical culture and sports in Ukraine. In view of this, the President of Ukraine considers it necessary to supplement the law with the aim of using unpaid land taxes to meet the requirements of part four of article 49 of the Constitution of Ukraine, with regard to support by the State for the development of physical culture and sport. In view of this, paragraph 3 of Chapter 1 of the First Law is proposed to be supplemented by the words: “as long as the corresponding amounts of land tax are allocated to the development of physical culture and sports in a direction and in an orderly manner determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine”. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that this law is extremely important, and I would like to support the President's proposals and approve it. And I'm sure, once it's finally signed, it's going to be a very serious engine to develop a materially technical base of sport to build new modern sports objects in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u21	Yes, thank you, Yuri Alexiovich. Have a seat, please. The head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Sergei Anatoliyovich Teryohin, please take the seat of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u22	Thank you, Mr. Head. Ladies and gentlemen, the President has proposed in paragraph 3 of the first law that the words “being in their possession” should be deleted. The President believes that land-use operators who have land on conditions of use will be subject to unequal conditions with entities that have land-rights that do not comply with articles 13 and 42 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which guarantee the protection of the rights of all property and management entities and the competition for entrepreneurial activities. The committee supports this proposal. Explanation: there is an imbalance between Ukraine's Land Pay Act, which hasn't changed since 1996, and Ukraine's Land Code, which has been in force since 1 January 2000. We understand that the Land Pay Act needs to be updated and conceptually changed, but it is not on the table right now. The other one. The President proposed that paragraph 3 of section 1 of the Act should be supplemented by the words: “If the corresponding amounts of land tax are directed towards the development of physical culture and sports in the direction and order determined by the Cabinet”. I can say that such an offer should apply to all the exemptions that apply. is in the land tax benefits. Unfortunately, we have a lot of benefits in the form of a blended, blended form, or aid, but there is no explanation as to the purpose or use of the land. That's why the committee supports the President's proposal. With regard to the above mentioned, the Committee recommends the adoption of the Ukrainian Act amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Land Pay Act in general, taking into account two Presidential proposals. Let's do this again, because this is not just about our current life, but about the perspectives, especially the Euro-12 position. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u23	Yes, thank you, have a seat, please. Please, on the basis of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u24	Dear colleagues, as co-author of the bill, which, with my colleagues, Ravil Safiulin and Alexander Volkov, registered it, I recall, not long ago, we celebrated two years ago – on January 12, 2007. My point is that, in principle, the President's proposals are correct, they improve our law. The only thing I'd like to wish for is the Ministry and the President's Secretariat, two years when we debated here, working with us, because in two years, we didn't hear any proposal, and now there's a new idea to improve the law that we've been debating for two years. Yet, the matter is more important. And so as co-author of the bill from my colleagues, I think that these amendments are improving the bill. I therefore propose two amendments to vote and urge the President to sign this law without delay.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u25	Dear colleagues, the committee's proposals were in line with the wishes of the President of Ukraine, with his vision of how this law should be improved. Therefore, we have every reason to put to the vote, to adopt the law in the new actual edition based on the proposal made by the President of Ukraine. I'm voting on this proposal. [[Registration number 0908]] Please vote. [[16:28:42]] For 401 The law is passed. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on Living Minimum on the Approval of Living Minimum, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 08.01.2009, has been announced for consideration. Registration number 1034. Reporter - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ludmila Leontievna Denisov The focal point will be the chairman of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Vasil Georgievovich Hara.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u26	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national deputies, at the request of the President of Ukraine, I present the President's proposals for the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on Living Minimum. Ukraine's Act of Amendment to Article 4 adopted by the distinguished people's deputies on December 18, last year, was returned by the President of Ukraine for reconsideration with proposals. [[concerning the approval of a subsistence minimum]] The adopted law proposes a minimum of one person's subsistence allowance, as well as for those who refer to the main social and demographic groups of the population at the time of submission of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to approve annually by law the Supreme Council of Ukraine before the beginning of the review of the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine. According to the Ukrainian Act on Living Minimum, the subsistence minimum is used, inter alia, for setting the size, minimum wage, minimum retirement age, the definition of the right to social assistance, state social security and standards, the provision of health care and education, social security for the formation of the State budget and local budgets. The President of Ukraine noted that the subsistence minimum in accordance with the Law on State Social Standards and State Social Guarantees is a fundamental state social standard set to define the mechanism for the implementation of social rights and the State social security guarantees of citizens established by the Constitution of Ukraine, as well as to determine the basis for the costs, such as the State Budget of Ukraine. Under these circumstances, the establishment of a subsistence minimum by a separate law, not by the State Budget Act of Ukraine, will mean establishing its size without taking into account the forecast of basic macroeconomic indicators, the economic and social development of Ukraine, which will lead to a balanced state budget for Ukraine, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the local budgets. Thus, the proposed procedure for the approval of the subsistence minimum does not conform to the constitutional principle of the State’s desire to balance the budget of Ukraine with respect to article 95 of the Constitution of Ukraine. In turn, the establishment of a well-founded subsistence minimum may also result in a violation of the constitutional rights of citizens to social protection, namely article 46 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Taking into account what has been said, the President of Ukraine proposes to reject the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on Living Minimum. [[concerning the approval of a subsistence minimum]] Please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u27	Head of the Committee on Social Policy and Work, Vasil Grigorovich Hara, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u28	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to say thank you on behalf of the Committee to all those who voted and our bill has won a constitutional majority of over 300 votes. Secondly, I very much hope that today we will defend the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine and the citizens of Ukraine, leaving the law in effect that we have previously adopted with you. Reasons. The President of Ukraine proposes to reject the law, since in his view, establishing a subsistence minimum for others other than the Budget Act would mean establishing a subsistence minimum without taking into account the projection of basic macroeconomic indicators for Ukraine's economic and social development, which would lead to a balanced state budget and local budgets. I would like to say that this conclusion suggests that those who have prepared the President's veto on this issue have no idea of the substance of living as a basic social norm. Under the Housing Minimum Act, the International Labour Organization Convention ratified by Ukraine provides an objective social standard, which is calculated by a normative method. In the calculation of this normative method, only two positions are involved, namely, the list of goods, products and services, the so-called consumer basket, and the prices at the time of this calculation. I would also like to emphasize that, in accordance with the Act on Living Minimum, the subsistence minimum is defined as a value sufficient to ensure the normal functioning of the human body, the preservation of its health, the minimum set of food products and the minimum set of services necessary to meet the basic social and cultural needs of the individual. This means that the definition of the subsistence minimum, regardless of the opinions and judgements of anyone, is objective social norms, I repeat, which are defined by the normative method. In this regard, the establishment of an objective minimum of living under the Ukrainian Housing Act is one thing, and the President's fear of minimum wage, minimum pension, social subsistence allowance is another. Although the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine so require, this is a completely different matter. The Committee on Social Policy believes that, only in order to appear to be a beautiful underestimation of the subsistence minimum, it is immoral to set its size on a voluntary basis by violating Ukrainian legislation. I would also like to recall that there is nothing new in my bill. It only restores the laws that existed until 2005, when the fundamental principle of the formation of a basic social standard was violated. And then it was as it was supposed to be. The Supreme Council shall determine, declare, the subsistence minimum. This subsistence minimum of the Cabinet of Ministers is the basis for the work on the regular budget. In the light of the above, the Committee requests that you, distinguished members of the people, overcome the veto of the President. It's not his fault, he's been framed, in fact, by people who don't know the minimum of living legislation and restore the rule of law to a minimum of living. Thank you. And I hope you will understand and support our committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u29	Dear colleagues. Jaroslav Suhi, please, for reasons.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u30	Dear colleagues, the paradox is that the Minister of Labour will report to the President's veto. Although it seemed that the Minister of Labour and Social Policy was supposed to protect our bill. But I would like to remind all of you that by its decision of 9 July 2007, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, number 6pp 2007, established by its binding decision, by this law, i.e. the budget, the law on the budget of Ukraine cannot be amended, stop the operation of valid laws, and establish another legal settlement of relations that is the subject of other laws of Ukraine. At the very least, people need to know the reality of what the cost of living is. For example, if the physiological standard for eating meat per adult is 45 kilograms per year and the subsistence minimum is 12, I have already told people that it is fair to say, for 13 kilograms of meat per year per armed German. The budget and reality of the minimum of living are different things.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u31	Yes, dear fellows! Alexandrovska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u32	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Dear colleagues! I would like to draw attention to another very important issue. When a budget law is under consideration when it is calculated by the Government, certain macro indicators are taken as the basis of the budget law. So far, we have little practice in calculating the budget to introduce social indicators. And we are giving the Government a ransom to form these social indicators in the budgeting process. And we see what's going on. The concept of social security is introduced and social security laws are not implemented. The Government wants to form its own consumer basket and set itself a minimum of living. You and I have specifically adopted a law to set a serious minimum of living before we start calculating our budget in the Supreme Council. And you and I must maintain this position, and we must not allow it to be derogated from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u33	Dear colleagues! The discussion is over. The first is the proposal by the President of Ukraine to vote, and please note the rejection of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 4 of the Ukrainian Act on Living Minimum on Approval of Living Minimum. Registration number 1034. About the rejection of the law. [[16:40:02]] For-34 The decision is not taken. The proposal is now submitted to the committee on overcoming the veto of the President of Ukraine under the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 4 of the Ukrainian Act on Living Minimum for Approval of Living Minimum. Registration number 1034. Please vote. [[16:40:37]] For 218. The decision is not taken. The law is rejected. The factions, please. Region Party – 170, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 2, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 0, Communists – 27, “Litvina Block” – 19. It is announced in advance of the Ukrainian Act on measures to address the consequences of the economic and financial crisis in the area of social protection, pay and employment, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 14.01.2009. Registration number 3334. The rapporteur is Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ludmila Leontievna Denisov. The focal point will be the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Mikhailo Mikolaiovich Papiev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u34	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! On December 25, 2008, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Ukrainian Act on Measures to Cope With the Consequences of the Financial and Economic Crisis in the Field of Social Protection, Pay and Employment. Paragraph 3 of chapter 1 of the First Law sets out the rules for the provision of unemployment, which are charged to the State Employment Service, as well as to employees of enterprises who receive assistance in part-time unemployment, material assistance to themselves and family members for the purpose of moving to employment, the conduct of entrepreneurial activities for the labour-depressive regions at the expense of the State Budget, which is not provided for in the 2009 State Budget Act. The second section of the Second Act provides for amendments to article 6 of the Ukrainian Act on Pay for Work, according to which the salaries of employees of all institutions, institutions and budgetary organisations are based on a single tariff network that is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and the size of the salary of the staff member of the first tariff grade is established in a manner that exceeds the legislatively established minimum wage. However, the establishment of an official salary, the tariff rate of a staff member at the first tariff level and in line with the sole tariff network, which exceeds the legislatively fixed minimum wage, will require an increase in expenditure from all budget levels to cover the work of budget staff compared to the projected expenditure in the State Budget of Ukraine for 2009 of 29.5 billion dollars. In doing so, the adoption of the law does not have real resources and will have negative consequences, such as balancing budgets at all levels, borrowing from wages, dismissal of workers, and so on. Moreover, the law on the taking of effect does not comply with part three of article 27 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, which states that Ukrainian laws that affect the formation of the income and expenditure portions of the budgets should be officially published by August 15, which is ahead of schedule. Taking into account the above and proposals by the President of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Act on Measures to Cope With the Consequences of the Financial and Economic Crisis in the Field of Social Protection, Pay and Employment is proposed to be rejected. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u35	Mikhailo Mikolaiovich Papiev, please take the position of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u36	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, Your Honor! I would ask that we take a very careful look at this law. And when the committee considered the fourth February proposal of the President of Ukraine, it examined all the circumstances and adoptions of this bill, its essential part, and the consequences it could have for the social protection of Ukrainian citizens if we accepted the President's proposal to reject this bill. I'd like to remind you of the history of this law at all. He voted in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on December 25, 2008. By the way, the initiator of this law was the head of the faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense", a respected colleague of ours, Vijacheslav Anatoliyovich. And the Supreme Council of Ukraine supported his proposals and supported this bill, which was established: first, that the social protection of citizens in crisis situations, i.e. those citizens of Ukraine, and today there are about three million people working today, who are working part-time, part-time, part-time, or part-time Ukrainian citizens who are on forced vacations, this is article 24-25, second, fifth, article 26 of the Ukrainian Employment Act. In addition, it was proposed that this law should set the minimum wage at the minimum wage, as provided for by the law in force, and thus far it is a valid law, number 466-16, which was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in December 2006. And another position that we need to take into account. The point is that in this bill, and the committee took special note of this, it was envisaged that for pensioners who have 13.5 million people, In Ukraine, it was considered that during the period of participation in the solidarity system alone, the estimate of one year of the insurance internship was 1.35. In fact, if we are to reject this law today and act on the proposals of the President of Ukraine, all pensioners of Ukraine from today will need to be recalculated to a reduction of one year, not with a factor of 1.35, but with a coefficient of 1, because this rule was foreseen in the 2008 budget, and in the 2009 budget it disappeared, and it is not there. Therefore, the committee, taking into account all the circumstances, decided to go to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not vote in favour of rejecting the bill, and the committee decided to reintroduce to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the Act on Measures to Cope With the Impact of the Financial and Economic Crisis in the Field of Social Protection, Pay and Employment, in a new edition. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Taking into account the importance of this bill, and regardless of whose political powers the Ukrainian national MPs find and whose political parties they are, this law today applies to 46 million Ukrainian citizens, 22 million Ukrainian citizens of working age, because it today sets a minimum wage of 545 dollars, as proposed by the government and provided for in the State Budget, but at the level of living minimum, which I remind everyone, in the Act on the State Budget of Ukraine is set at 669 dollars. In fact, if we adopt this law today in a new edition, if the President signs it as a guarantor of the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens, we will return to the pensioners of Ukraine, to each pensioner 320 dollars a month, which they do not receive as a result of the non-admission of this law. Every employee can get back at least 860 dollars a month, which they don't get because the President vetoed the bill. And I draw your attention and ask you to take into account the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 9 July 2007 to appeal to the Ukrainian National Deputies - Members of the House of July Timoshenko at that time. The Constitutional Court has ruled that the right of citizens to social protection, other socio-economic rights may be limited, including by the cessation of laws or their individual provisions, only under conditions of war or state of emergency and only for a certain period of time. If the President of Ukraine thinks we have an extraordinary presence.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u37	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u38	I would ask the Ukrainian National Deputies to take these circumstances into account and to vote in favour of this bill as an exception to the rules of our Rules, as proposed by the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u39	Dear colleagues, we can only do one thing: either reject, as the President proposes, or vote in favour of overcoming the veto. [[Now, Adam Ivanovich.]] In the new edition it is necessary to work out the law after it is rejected. There's no working on it. Here either the President's proposal is voted on, or the veto is defeated, there can be no other. Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u40	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, if I am not mistaken, article 135 allows us to go to work. Vladimir Mikhailovich, if we don't make any positive decisions, that is, we won't reject the bill and overcome the veto, we have the right to direct the committee to work on it. But I wanted to talk about something else. Dear colleagues, I am very surprised that the guarantor of the Constitution is proposing to violate the Constitutional Court's decision. The reporter just said that there is a decision by the Constitutional Court about it, and that's a constitutional rule that doesn't allow social rights to be narrowed down. This law protects social rights, because unfortunately, the State Budget Act is severely tightened this year. Unfortunately, the head of state does not want to support people, and he supports those who voted in favour of the State Budget Act so that many social problems will be reversed in 2009. That's why I'm offering to overcome the veto.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u41	Dear colleagues, the President of Ukraine's proposal to reject the Ukrainian Act on measures to address the consequences of the financial and economic crisis in the area of social protection, pay and employment is put to the vote. Registration number 3334. [[16:52:43.]] Z-11. The decision is not taken. The proposal to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine is now being put to the vote on the Ukrainian Act on Measures to Cope With the Consequences of the Financial and Economic Crisis in the Field of Social Protection, Pay for Work and Employment. Registration number 3344. Please vote. [[16:53:25]] For 222 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, please. The factions, please. Dear colleagues, Party of Regions - 165, Block of July Timoshenko - 0, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense - 11, Communists - 27, Block of Lithuania - 19. Dear colleagues, in accordance with Rule 135, paragraph 8, of the Rules, we can assign the Chief Committee to work on it no later than within thirty days. I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[16:54:18]] For 238. Decision taken. Although there is a colossus here, there is a colossus. If we had the President's proposals, we'd have to work on them, taking into account the President's proposals, and here's just an offer to be rejected. So the only thing we can do is get into a new law. By appropriate procedure. Dear colleagues, right now we need to get into the agenda and determine how to make a decision. This is a draft law amending certain legislative acts, registration number 4060. [[on the settlement of public property management processes]] Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[16:55:25]] For 212 The decision is not taken. Yes, there is still a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda a bill amending the Ukrainian Police Act on improving the social protection of militia personnel. For inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[16:56:13]] For 368 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement, Vladimir Stepanovich Malishev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u42	Vladimir Malyshev, Party of the Regions. Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! As a national deputy of Ukraine, I have been approached by the families of militia personnel who died in the performance of their official duties, by officers and veterans of the Indonesian police, who have been asked not to reintroduce the medical facilities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, as this would make their medical services worse. I have therefore been amended by the Police Act of Ukraine to prevent the deterioration of the social protection of militia personnel and to ensure their legal right to free medical care in the health-care institutions of the Ministry of the Interior. I therefore propose to supplement article 22 of the Ukrainian Police Act with part 14 of such content. Internal affairs officials are guaranteed free medical care, which is provided at the health-care facilities of the Ministry of the Interior. Changes, subordinated to the Ministry of Public Health can only be effected by law. I would like to recall that the Ministry of the Interior's departmental medicine has been in place since it was 21 years old, and since then the health of law enforcement personnel has been under the care of the medical authorities. As at 1 January this year, there are 725,000 people in health care, of whom some 30,000 are war veterans, including 3.5 thousand war disabled persons entitled to health care in health departments. There are 15,000 contributors to the Chernobyl disaster, including 7.5,000 persons with disabilities. The main task of departmental health is the decision of a number of specials.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u43	Give me a chance to finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u44	related to the law enforcement activities of ministries. These activities cannot, for reasons of objective circumstances, be carried out by any other public municipal medical institution. These include the selection of candidates for police service, medical and psychological follow-up of performance, the medical provision of special service tasks performed by internal affairs officials and internal troops, the provision of medical assistance to family members and the pensioners of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The medical and psychological rehabilitation of law enforcement officials in extreme situations, participation in peacekeeping missions, the detention of an armed criminal, the use of tabloid weapons, the elimination of mass unrest and so on are among the priorities of departmental health.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u45	Vladimir Stepanovich, thank you. You were convincing thank you. It's time twice, and for the committee, please. I'm sorry, please. Dear colleagues, it goes at the same time, and the authorship and report on behalf of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u46	By the way, the experience of the Department of Medicine in other countries has shown great efficiency in providing medical assistance to law enforcement officials in the emergence of local armed conflicts, technological disasters and counter-terrorism. Therefore, the destruction of the existing system will inevitably result in a weakening of human resources, preparedness, a reduction in social security and police personnel, the pensioners of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and members of their family. The Chief Research and Expert Office fully supported the bill, but suggests: “change, submission, institutions??????? The health of a subordinate of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine can only be effected by law” instead of the words “can only be effected by law” and the words “not permitted”. I agree with this proposal and propose to vote on the bill as a whole. The Legislative Enforcement Committee, at its meeting, unanimously decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill as a basis and generally as a law of Ukraine. I request that this bill be adopted as a whole as a law of Ukraine, taking into account changes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u47	Yes, please sign up, your honors, two "for", two "against". Please sign up. Please sit down, Vladimir Stepanovich. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u48	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. Ladies and gentlemen, I've carefully studied this bill, it's small, it's only five sentences, so there's practically nothing to consider in two readings. It's about what people are going through today, and we have to calm them down, that no one is going anywhere, and they're not going to waste their health care facilities in the IMF system, and that the guarantees that are guaranteed in the law and the status of war veterans and the guarantee of their social protection and in the case of war invalids, and in the case of IMF pensioners, they will be preserved. I understand why people are so anxious today, people are worried that the Security Service has already begun to move away from property, and that is what people are experiencing today, and even in an explanatory note, it is stated that this is due to attempts to reorganize and reshape health facilities. You can't let that happen, and I'm convinced that we're going to save them, and I'm going to urge you to vote on this law right now in two readings, because there's no point in making any proposals here, it's completely balanced and thoroughly written. That's the first one. And the second. I'd like to pay attention to all of us, because we're looking at this bill to provide for today's drugs for those categories of citizens to whom we owe it, these are black people, these are disabled people and war participants. And speaking from this high rostrum to the minister of health, I would like to ask him, along with the minister of finance, to do everything in order for today’s difficult time to receive the drugs that are guaranteed by legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u49	People's deputy Beales, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u50	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I'd like your attention for a few moments. The specificity of the health institutions of the Ministry of Internal Affairs is that 65,000 employees per year are being held by a military-medical commission, as reported by a colleague already in Mališev. That's the first one. The other one. Today, there are 750,000 internal affairs officials and family members serving these facilities. That is why, in full support of my colleague Malishev's proposal, colleague Carmazin, I ask to vote in favour of this bill as a basis and as a whole right away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u51	Sergey Shevchuk, block faction, Timoshenko Street.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u52	Dear colleagues, this is the novelty of the drafter of the bill. First of all, health care for police personnel is free. And secondly, so that the network of these facilities is not cut short. Well, everyone seems to support that. But I will remind you that it is these positions that are enshrined in the Constitution, in article 49. So the sense of this money is a little bit unclear. Of course, we all support it because we understand the complexity of the tasks of police and veterans. The first reading cannot be rejected. But what I'm saying is that every police officer has the right to go to both academic medical institutions and medical institutions at the place of residence are general and, in addition, to medicine. And this multifacetedness is not present for ordinary citizens. We can go this way, and each department legally establishes its own medical facilities for its employees. Then just the only medical space in Ukraine will disappear, then there will be multiplication of functions, then spending and duplication of funds that are still lacking in health care. I mean, in the first reading, I think we need to make a thorough revision of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u53	People's deputy Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u54	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! We have all the funds allocated to health care in the country, distributed between 17 ministries and offices. Of the 32 billion health - care funds in 2008, only a sixth was allocated to the Ministry of Health. In comparison, 412 million dollars have been allocated to health care for health workers at the Ministry of Internal Affairs in 2008, and 430 million dollars have been allocated to all specialized and highly specialized health care at the Ministry of Health, i.e. virtually the same figures. Of course, the Ministry of Internal Affairs Medical Service has specific tasks that can be carried out by clinics other than central and several large hospitals. In practice, hospitals that are located in district centres and are subordinated to the Internal Affairs Office have all the clinical, highly specialized, advisory, and health care facilities. That is why it is impossible to spend such an enormous amount of money, and we will never be able to reform health care, make it a quality that is available to all in our country. The Cabinet of Ministers has now created an interdisciplinary group to study the optimization of the use of the bed fund. According to such data in the Donetsk region alone, there are 1,200 beds in the Donetsk region for interior workers, who are of course being used irrationally. Therefore, when you accept this law, you need to think carefully. At least it should not be accepted as a whole, but rather processed and thought.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u55	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The committee's proposal was like this. To recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the bill as a basis and generally as a law. But I'm going to put the vote on the ground first, and we're going to keep looking. I am voting on a proposal by the adoption committee based on the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Police Act, registration number 4037. [[on improving the social protection of police personnel]] Please vote. [[17:09:41]] For 401 Decision taken. Next, dear colleagues. The committee's proposal was to approve the bill as a law. If there's a warning. Any warning? There are warnings, I can't, my dear colleagues. We're the only ones who can work it out in such a way that we can assign a committee to work on it. Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Rules, if at least one MP denies it, I cannot put him to the acceptance as a law. Let's stick to it. Let's therefore, honourable colleagues, entrust the committee with further work and bring it out for consideration for the next plenary week, i.e. shorten the procedure for preparing for the second reading. The question has been considered with this in mind. Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a denial of both. National Deputy Karpuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u56	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, there is also a proposal for the Health Committee to be entrusted with the work of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u57	Dear colleagues, when preparing for second reading, any national MP should be obliged, if he has any amendments and suggestions, to make them, please. It is announced for consideration, please note, fellow Members of State, three, four documents is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Decree on State Customs, Registration Nos. 2462, 2536, 3067 and 3288. So there's a proposal for the drafters to report them, after that, a general assessment and a general proposal of the committee and discussion, and a vote on each individual document, because they are alternatives. No objections? The draft Law 2462 is introduced, and the rapporteur is Head of the State Committee on Land Resources of Ukraine, Oleg Mikolaiovich Kulinić.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u58	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Ukraine's draft Act amending the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Decree "On State Customs" has been developed to implement the Ukrainian Act "On State Registration of Real Estate Rights and Their Restrictions". The draft amends the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Decree of 21 January 1993 on State Customs as part of the definition of an object for the administration of government duties, namely the State registration of property rights for immovable property and their limitations. And it determines the rate of government duty for the state registration of real estate rights and their restrictions of 0.5 untaxed minimum citizens' income. The adoption of the law will allow for the establishment at the legislative level of the determination of the size of public duty rates, since this is regulated in the legal and regulatory framework today by legislation that is marked by legislation. Moreover, in addition to reducing the burden of financial pressure on our citizens, the adoption of this law will provide additional revenue to government budgets. Given that today the rate of government duty is one percent, which is 17 dollars, the rate of acceptance at 0.5 is only going to be 8.50. Considering that the bill is of social importance to our citizens, it reduces financial pressure, it provides access to local budgets, and we ask that the bill be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u59	Thank you. Now, honourable colleagues, Bill 2536. Deputy Finance Minister Half-Doon Mikola Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u60	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies! The government has introduced Bill No. 2536 on a change in the rate of government duty for the notarial certification of contracts for the alienation of immovable property held by natural and legal persons. The need for the drafting and adoption of this bill is justified by the following reasons. At present, the tax levied on persons for certification of such a type of contract lost the fiscal function that was given to him during the issuance of the Cabinet of Ministers Decree on State Customs. Today’s rate of government duty directly affects the increase in the cost of a person’s transfer of ownership to real estate, as well as the acquisition of mortgage loans. The size of the State’s duty should be determined by virtue of the congregation’s compensatory function, which is only a tool for reimbursement of expenses for carrying out a war certificate that is of legal importance. The bill proposes to impose limits on the maximum rate of government duty on the certification of such contracts of no more than three times the minimum wage established on 1 January of the current year. The adoption of the bill will reduce the costs associated with the transfer of property to immovable property and improve the conditions for the realization of the constitutional right of citizens to housing. We ask for the support of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u61	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, now Bill 3067 is the head of the State Commission of Securities and Stock Market Anatoly Ivanovich Baluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u62	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, a draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Decree on State Customs is proposed. [[on securities transactions]] The bill, which is under consideration, provides for the elimination of the irresponsibility of the Terminology of the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine "On State Customs" to the standards of the Ukrainian Law "On Securities and Stock Markets" in the part of the administration of government duties on securities transactions, and for paragraph 2 (p) of article 3, paragraph 6, of the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers "On State Customs" in the new edition. In addition to this bill, it is proposed to replace article 2, paragraph 9, of the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers “On State Customs” with two paragraphs, assuming that the State Customs is in charge of: first, securities issuance operations, other than government and local loans, and the issue of privatisation papers; second, for the registration of derivatives. The adoption of this bill will help resolve the differences between the rules of the decree and the law of Ukraine and the enforcement of the State's duty to register derivatives and issue securities, in addition to the bonds of state and local loans. At the same time, the current regulation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Pro State Customs, stipulates that the rate of the State's duty to register securities is one tenth of the nominal value of the issue of securities. The bill took into account comments made by the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance: on the limitation of the maximum rate of government duty for the registration of the release of securities by a minimum wage of five times the minimum wage set for 1 January of the current year. In the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, it is stated that the bill can be adopted on the basis of the proposals made. These proposals can be taken into account when preparing the draft for second reading. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u63	Thank you. Have a seat, please. And now draft law registration number 3288. Deputy Minister of Finance, Michael Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u64	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies! You have Bill No. 3288: on the change in the rate of government duty for issuing certificates of inheritance. The need for the drafting and adoption of this bill is justified by the following. In accordance with the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, “On State Customs for the Issue of Certificates of the Right of Heritage”, a government duty of 0.1 per cent to 0.5 per cent of the amount of the inheritance is paid. At the same time, the value of the property received by the natural person as an inheritance is taxed by the income tax of the natural person in accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Income Tax of Persons. So the rate of government duty should, in this case, also be just a tool to compensate the state for its costs for actions that are of legal importance. The bill proposes to cancel the interest rates on the holding for issuing an inheritance certificate and to set a single duty rate of two non-taxable minimum citizens' incomes of 34 bracelets. The adoption of the bill will reduce tax pressure on citizens’ income derived from inheritance, funds, property, property or property rights. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u65	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Sergey Anatolyovich Teryohin, please. Sergei Anatoliyovich Teryohin, please have four drafts.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u66	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, well, frankly, it's a rather strange design to consider these bills, because they're not complementary and they're not alternatives. Let me tell you a little bit about the first project. The project proposes to amend the Kabmin State Customs Decree in part of the determination of the subject matter of the holding for the State registration of immovable property rights and their limitations and the determination of the size of government duties for the retention of immovable property rights and their restrictions on half of the non-taxable minimum income of citizens. Well, roughly, that's 8 bracelets of 50. The chief scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council apparatus supports this law, and the committee also supports it. That's why we're proposing Bill 2462 that you take it as a base and accept it as a whole. The draft Law on Amendments to Article 3 of the Cabinet Decree on Obtainability proposes that the maximum amount of duty should be imposed for certification of immovable property withdrawal contracts no more than three times the minimum minimum wage set for 1 January of the current year in which such a contract is certified. Unfortunately, today, there is a rule that has to be paid at least one percent. But I remind you, honourable national deputies, that we have made a decision that if such a function once belonged to a state notary only and that it was a tax that went into the budget, then the following year such a function would belong to private notaries, that is, a government duty would be exchanged for a so-called notary fee. And so one percent of the time for the alienation of apartments, houses, houses, etcetera is going to go in the pocket, not of the state, but of private notaries. That's why we agree with the offer given by Kabmin to put on a sort of hat that will be equal to three sizes of an untaxed minimum. With regard to Law 3067, the bill refers to the State's duty before the transaction with securities. In particular, the current norm of subparagraph “p”, paragraph 6, of article 3 of that decree provides for the issuance of a holding for the registration of information on the issue of securities. While with the adoption of the Securities and Stock Market Act, we have done so in the past, the rules on the registration of such information have become invalid. Therefore, it is proposed to change the edition of the active sub-paragraph “p”, paragraph 6, article 3, by providing for the correcting of the stick for the transaction from the issue of valid papers. In addition, unlike the current rate of the holding, which is set at a percentage of the nominal value of the release of securities, the bill proposes to introduce the maximum amount of government duty, in addition to the bonds of government and local loans, and to the minimum wage. And by registering 50 untaxed minimums. In the course of the discussion of the bill, comments were made regarding the inadequacy of the relationship between the size of the caphold and the minimum wage, which is periodically changing. Unlike the current standard in paragraph 9, article 2 of the Decree, which does not deal with the issue of mortgage securities and certificates of immovable property funds, it is proposed that such securities be included in the object of the arrangement of the holding. In the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, it is stated that a bill on the outcome of the review can be adopted on the basis of the comments made on the basis of the size of the State's duty and base. In view of the above, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council accept as a basis the first reading, but it is by no means a law of 3067 as a whole. And finally, Bill 3288. The committee considered the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 3 of the Cabinet Decree on State Customs, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine 3288. In the context of tax reform, the tax system should take into account the characteristics of taxation of the income of the physical person when receiving the inheritance of property, namely: the ideology of the holding for the issuing of a certificate of inheritance should be reviewed and the holding should be set to the extent of the State's expenditure on the issue of the relevant certificate, not as a special inheritance tax. The adoption of the bill will reduce tax pressure on citizens’ incomes resulting from inheritance of property, property, or property rights, and avoid social tensions associated with the collection of inheritance taxes. In the course of the discussion, national deputies and committee members noted that Minfin’s conclusion had no impact on the income and expenditure. The Ministry of Finance supports the bill. Taking into account the foregoing, the Committee unanimously recommends to the Supreme Council the adoption of the draft Law amending Article 3 of the Cabinet Decree on State Customs on the basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention. So by summarising the above, it's suggested that 3288 accept as a basis and in general, 2462 accept as a basis and in general, 3067 accept as a basis, in the first reading and send for further work and 2536 take as a basis and send for work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u67	Thank you. At the same time, we have only two bills proposed for adoption as a basis, this is Bill 2462 and Bill 3288, all the other committees are proposing to accept as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u68	And I said that, two Bills 2462 and 3288 don't make any observations either on the committee or on the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration and the Legal Authority, you can take them as a whole, but there are problems with some of the 2536 and 3067. Therefore, it is suggested that they be taken only as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u69	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the performance. There's a two-in-a-row, two-in-the-face. Please have the name of the national MPs on the sign-up table. Roman Tchac, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u70	Roman Tkac, deputy group "For Ukraine!", faction "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, I would like to pay attention to Bill 2462, but it is good that there is already a government duty on the state registration of the property and limitations of this right, but there is another issue. Today the U.S. is actually conducting this registration, and they are taking the funds and sending them out for their development, and in fact the local budget does not have any funds. But this raises another question, when we set this wage today at 0.5 percent of the non-taxable minimum at 8.50, it means that if we register property rights, for example, on the house, 8.50 and if, for example, on the factory, 8.50, that is, there is no differentiation from the object of this property right. So I would still say that we have to consider that this is a big difference. And we have to take it in the first reading, and yet then all of these points are taken into account, to differentiate these objects of real estate. And if BTI is to conduct this real estate registration, you have to take these costs depending on what object we register in the real estate register. So I'm proposing a bill number 2462 to be adopted only on the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u71	People's MP Philippeenko, faction of Yulia Tymoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u72	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to the two bills that we are currently considering, 2536 and 3288, which relate to the size of the State's moment for notary action. The point is that the explanatory note signed by former Finance Minister Pinzenik states that the bill is intended to provide housing for citizens. At the same time, the law, Bill 2536, in fact, will reduce significantly if it is adopted, reduce the coming to the state budget of Ukraine. Because we're saying right now that today the government's tax is going to be one percent of the amount, of the real estate that is the object of this contract. If we adopt this law, we have an upper plank, which will be no more than three minimum wages, that is, a firm wage. Whatever the deal is, no matter what the deal is, it's going to pay no more than 2,000 dollars. Of that 15 percent, each notary is private, will also pay taxes of 150 or 200 dollars. At the same time, there will be 10 objects, 100 million dollars worth of objects, and the state will not receive huge funds. And in government notarial offices all of this percentage goes into the revenue of the state. That's why we're going to deprive the state of income in this case. The same is true of Bill 3288. Since there is also a clear ceiling for government duties during the inheritance of property, there are 2 minimum wages. Although it is now differentiated by percent. There's 0.5 percent and 0.2 percent. In this case, therefore, not only will not significant funds be made available to the State in the course of notarial action. So I ask you to pay attention to Bills 2536 and 3288, and I propose not to support these bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed our consideration of the matter. But I would like to draw your attention not to the notary, not to the state, but to the people. Because today the sums are not up. And so this is meant to make it easier for people to transform their inheritance and other immovable property. It just has to be taken into account that when they go into action, because this is where the laws go into effect since January 1, 2009, and the term coincides. So in the event of their acceptance, they need to be introduced or through. in the second half of 2009. Or since January 1st, 2010. But let's take into account the situation, the honourable colleagues who are groaning, who cannot transform an inheritance, and for them, these amounts are not raised. And we're talking about the budget. And that's what the Cabinet of Ministers brought in, he calculated it. Let's write it down from January 1, 2010, the new fiscal year. I'm betting on the vote, your honorary colleagues, to adopt as the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Decree on State Customs, registration number 2462, on the basis. Please vote. [[17:33:21]] For 204 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, "Club of Timoshenko" – 134, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 50, Communist faction – 0, "Club of Lithuania" – 20. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you once again what this is about. What a state registration of a property right to immovable property limits this right to 0.5 untaxed minimum of citizens' income, that is, what people need. I'm voting for a return to Bill 2462. Change the vote. Please, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u74	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. You're absolutely right to say that, in fact, 0.5 untaxed minimum is when it comes to citizens. And if it's about a legal person's registration, if we register a person like Creebrisstal or Mittel Steele, what does he only draw an untaxed percentage by 0.5? Don’t pull, that is, if we take legal persons out of there, and only remain physically, there are no questions; people need to be supported, but if we take factories, factories, steamboats, and so forth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u75	Thank you. Dear colleagues, first of all, please pay attention, first of all, to this. What we're taking as a base, and for second reading, we can determine, we need to take it as a base now. That's why I'm voting for a return to Bill 2462. Please vote. [[17:35:23]] For 261 Decision taken. And now I'm voting for adoption on the basis of the draft Law 2462 and its introduction, not since January 1, 2010. Please vote. [[17:35:52]] For 263 Decision taken. He now introduces to the vote the draft Act amending the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on State Customs, registration number 2536. The committee invites him to take it as a basis. Please vote. [[17:36:26]] For 209 The decision is not taken. Why don't you put it back on? For one more time? I'm betting on sending this bill, or registration number 2536, to read again. [[17:36:58]] For 262 Decision taken. There is now a motion for a committee to adopt a bill amending the Cabinet of Ministers Decree on State Customs, registration number 3067. It's about the securities and the stock market, right? With respect to transactions with securities. Please vote on the basis. [[17:37:36]] For 232 Decision taken. The bill amending the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on State Customs, registration number 3288, is on the vote. It's about giving a witness on the right to an inheritance. That's two untaxed minimum citizens' income since January 1st. There is a need for clarification in 2010. Please vote. [[17:38:19]] For 241 Decision taken. There was a committee proposal to accept it as a whole. Is there a denial? Please, Terjehohin. If there's one objection, you know we can't keep looking at it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u76	Dear friends, this is not a tax, this is a compensation for the loss of the budget for notary actions. This bill, the last one proposed by the committee as a whole, proposes to drastically reduce the income of notaries or taxes on those who receive an inheritance and to limit them to two untaxed minimums. So if there's no upper limit today, we're going to suggest that we don't annoy people when, let's say, mom gives her an inheritance there to her daughter or her son, but we're going to limit it to the upper limit to just make up for the cost of this issue of these inheritance documents. Who's against it? I can. From January 1st of the following year. If.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u77	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u78	First of all, those notary organs that have been given the right of the notary to make an inheritance since this year, i.e. they are rotting so much that no family can stand it. So please support both in general and what is supported by the government in order to do so. Well, somehow to protect people from this harassment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues, are there no other reasons? I won't. Please, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u80	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Unfortunately, considering the high professionalism of a colleague who was just speaking, he was so confusingly explaining that we could now break the law. Let's put it this way. Today any inheritance that's formed has to pay 0.5 percent of the sum. I mean, my grandmother died. She had a grandfather. The house is valued at 10,000. So she has to pay 500 bucks for it. And now we're going to pay 2 untaxed minimums, that's 34 bracelets. So let us be friendly about voting for this law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u81	Dear colleagues! Is the offer understood? I am voting on the adoption of the draft Law for adoption in the second reading and, as a whole, as a law, please vote. [[Registration number 3288]] [[17:41:48]] For 256 The law is passed. Now, pay attention! Dear colleagues, you and I have decided to include in the agenda and to consider draft laws amending some Ukrainian legislation on the employment of members of private agriculture. That's the kind of legislation we have right now. - Eight. We continue our work for 15 minutes. And we need to make a decision, Your Honor, on this matter. We've all been unanimous. So let's do it this way, maybe we can do it. We'll ask the committee to make us an offer now. So who's going to insist on their project is obviously going to have to take the floor, because there are bills and mine, and I'm taking it out for the benefit of making one decision that people need. Please, who will report from the committee? It's in the agenda, we don't have to vote. Let's do this procedure, fellow honourable Members: in order for a committee report, the committee will propose a basic draft law; if we agree and there is no objection, we will consider it and make a decision; if the insistence on the authors of other projects will allow them to speak, they will be given the opportunity. I am asking to vote in favour of this procedure. Please be supportive. It's a matter of procedure. We've just agreed on it! [[17:43:39]] For 231 Decision taken. The reporter is Schmelov Svetlana Alexandrovna. Please. You don't? Hara Vasil Leontijovich, please. Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi, please. I'll give you all the papers, come here.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u82	Dear colleagues, the situation is, in fact, that we should correct our own mistake. When You Recall the Antichrist Law, We Adopted 25.12. Last year. Bill number 3489 became a law signed by the President at number 799-6. During the second reading of the bill, the second reading amended article 8 of the Law on Personal Farmers. As a result of this change that was made by the Ukrainian national deputy Shevchuk, registration card number 270, there was a conflict between the law on personal agriculture, between the anti-crisis law that we passed, between the legislation that regulates the work of employment centres and reality. The fact is that we are using today's imperfect, i.e. the imperfect mechanism for the calculation of members of our own agriculture and paragraph 2.18.9 of the Rural, Rural and Urban Councils Manual, which will be approved by the decree of the State Department in April 2005, is that a person who is a member of the assisted agriculture cannot be accounted for in the employment centres and get the necessary social assistance. A number of bills have been introduced to remedy the situation. All the authors of these bills on the Committee on Social Policy and Work have spoken. We listened to the authors, and we heard the opinion of the ministries. The Ministry of Agrarian Politics and the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions expressed their support for Bill 4043, introduced by Ukrainian national deputies Gordijenko and Matvijev. All the bills we could put to the vote right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u83	Come on, give me a chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u84	All the bills have something positive. That is why we decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support Bill 4043, to create a working group necessarily because we, our respectable colleagues, besides employment, in the air, depended on the issue of pension insurance for members of our own agriculture. So yesterday, a decision was made, and we ask the committee to support our proposal by voting on the basis of Bill 4043. A working group will be set up when this bill is finalized for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u85	Dear colleagues, if you'd be so kind, we've supported the committee's proposal, we've now voted, we've accepted it as a basis, and we've entrusted the committee on March 19 with a detailed draft to adopt it as a matter of law. I'd like to ask, let's support this proposal. I am voting on a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the employment of members of private farmers, registration number 4043. Please vote. [[17:47:54]] For 238. Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party 162, Timoshenko Yulia Block 6, Our Ukraine-People's Self-Defense 23, Communist 27, Lithuanian Block 20. And the commission of the committee to work on it by March 19th. This year, of course. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the production and circulation of ethyl, equine and fruit, alcoholic beverages and tobacco products is under consideration. [[on the reduction of consumption and the sale of low-alcoholic beverages]] Registration number 1171, reporter Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u86	Dear colleagues, it's not Tomenka's bill, Natalya Royal, Eugene Suslova, as it says here, but it's the bill of a very large group of experts and experts and, above all, of the public concerned that Ukraine has remained a single country, at least in European territory, if you consider the European part of Russia, where low-alcoholic beverages remain outside the sphere of legislative regulation. Today we have low-alcoholic beverages, which I remind you of, up to 8.5 degrees, which is actually total chemistry, you can sell in schools, you can sell 14 years, you can sell 12 years, it's not regulated in any law. In this session, unfortunately, the representatives of this business were represented in the previous period, and so experts say that they are now presented that we have not been able to resolve this issue. So we suggest these three principles to your mind. First, we legislatively introduce alcoholic beverages into the category of soft drinks and beer. Second, we impose restrictions on the sale of alcoholic beverages up to 18 years of age, which is not yet available today. And the third principle of position, we add a list of places where the sale and use of alcohol are prohibited. Today, if you take information from the Ministry of Internal Affairs, you will see that sporting activities, concerts, beaches have become places not just for drinking alcoholic beverages, but for places that are very dangerous, not by fighting, not by trauma, but by death. Therefore, we introduce a ban on selling and drinking alcoholic and underalcoholic beverages in places of mass destruction other than those specifically taken. There's a lot of questions, tools that aren't foreseen here, so I'd like to support the first reading and we'll work on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u87	Head of Committee Terjehyn Sergey Anatoliyovich. Dear colleagues, we continue to advise, we have fundamental laws, we have a number of regulations that we should have adopted, which relate in particular to urgent measures to support cultural institutions, we could have, and a draft law on liability for grave abuse, other months of burial. We could make these two decisions and get the job done. Please, Sergey Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u88	Dear colleagues, this bill was discussed at a meeting of the Supreme Council's Committee on Tax-Mite Policy on February 12, 2008. The bill proposes to amend articles 1 15-2, 15-3 of the Ukrainian Law on the Restraint of the ethyl alcohol, horsey and alcoholic beverages and tobacco products at the legislative level of the term “mild drinks” and restrictions on the consumption and sale of beer and low-alcoholic beverages at the places of mass action. Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the committee, noted the social relevance of the bill, but made some remarks on the need to clarify the individual provisions on the second reading. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council notes that this bill can be based on the comments made. The only thing I would like to say is that when this project is being processed before the second reading, it is necessary to anticipate standards that would not affect the situation of small and medium-sized businesses, on the one hand. On the other hand, they would be designed to prevent the consumption of alcoholic beverages by children or in places that are not intended for sale or distribution. Thank you for your attention. Please support in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u89	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? If we don't, let's vote it as a basis and work it out. And if there are no warnings, we can vote as the law. The proposal for a committee to adopt is based on Bill 1171, which amends the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the production and circulation of ethyl, horse and fruit liquor and tobacco products. [[on the reduction of consumption and the sale of low-alcoholic beverages]] Please vote. [[17:53:54]] For 384 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, if you don't mind, we're going to have a very complicated bill now, a code that we can't consider for a reduced procedure, we need to take it seriously and strictly, and if you don't mind, we could now make two decisions, this is a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to increase the responsibility for the abuse of the grave and other burial sites, and we could put in order of the day, and we can adopt a draft decision on some urgent measures to support cultural institutions during the period of economic crisis and end our work, no objection? The draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the strengthening of the responsibility for the abuse of the grave and other burial sites is therefore under consideration. [[Registration number 2160]] The reporter is Yuri Alexiovich Litwin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u90	Honourable Vladimir Mihajlovich, honourable colleagues, you have before you a bill to amend some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to increase the responsibility for the abuse of the grave and other burial sites. The exacerbation of social contradictions, the devaluation of spiritual values and the moral foundations of society that have been observed recently testify to the urgent need to protect social morality in respect for the dead and their burial places from criminal attacks. Yes, if 163 crimes were reported in Ukraine in 1993, 4138 in 2007. So in four years, they're going to increase by two and a half. The problem is also that this type of criminal activity has a broad social resonance and is closely linked to national cultural and religious traditions of citizens. Certain criminal acts, such as those committed against the bodies of the dead, that show contempt for the moral values of society in criminal law do not have a special classification. Ukraine's draft law to amend some Ukrainian legislation on increasing liability for grave abuse at other places of burial specifies and specifies the nature of the crime: the abuse of the grave in accordance with existing legislation and the requirements of social morality, taking into account the experience of investigators and judicial authorities in this area.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u91	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Please take the seat of the committee. Moisik Volodymir Romanovich. The committee's offering to take it as a basis. National MP Beales, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u92	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to report that this bill has been discussed at a committee meeting on law enforcement. All members of the committee unanimously supported this bill, and I therefore ask you to strongly support it as a whole and on the basis of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u93	Dear colleagues, I would like to make a statement on this matter, if necessary. Please sign in. Well, if anyone wants to. No, we'll vote. Please. Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u94	The faction of the Ukrainian company will vote in favour of this bill, but I would just like to. This is really the law we need. Because we have more and more often witnessed barbarism in our country of barbarism and vandalism. But I would like to go to the drafters of the bill and to the committee that will consider this issue. I think you've come very close to solving these issues. You increase your responsibility for the abuse of graves and other burial places. We have places where monuments are located that are truly historical and for our nation. The monuments that bear witness to the era that we, our children, our great-grandparents, are monuments to heroes of the Great Homeland War and so forth. So I'd like the committee to take these proposals into account when working on the second reading. And so that we can ban and punish vandalism once and for all. And I think it's going to be absolutely, because we're moving to Europe, and we're on our way to Europe, and we're ruining everything that's on the way. I think the committee will take note, and by the second reading, this law will be wider. And I think it's very necessary today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u95	Katerina Vaschuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u96	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Perhaps there are none of us who have not been approached by people at private receptions, telegrams, letters of abuse of graves in one or more parts of the country. In each region, there are such wild cases that are incompatible with human morality or with Christian faith or any other faith, or with people's explanatory behavior at all. And that's why we need to take this very seriously, and we need to root out such vandalism. Not allowing such examples to become any more common opportunities for uneducated people to do such inhumane acts. I think that today's law is written in exactly the same direction -- the abuse of the grave, the sacred memory of those who have gone out of life. Anything else can be added to the Criminal Code — monuments, other buildings. You can add the following legislation. And we need to adopt this law as soon as possible. Therefore, in expressing the opinion of the Lithuanian bloc, I ask all fellow members of the National Deputies to vote in favour of this law not only in the first reading but also in general. We will gain only the gratitude of our constituents, of all the citizens of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u97	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. I want to say right away that we can and should take it as a basis. As far as accepting a project as a law is concerned, it will be hasty because there are a lot of observations. Then we'll have a veto, and then we'll think about how to overcome it. We need to adopt a perfect, normal law. The proposal to adopt a draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the increase of responsibility for the abuse of the grave and other burial places is therefore put to the vote. Registration number 2160. Please vote. [[18:02:26]] For 392 Decision taken. At the same time, dear colleagues, let us accept this suggestion that the committee should work on it as closely as possible in order for us to consider it so that we can take root in what is happening over our parents ’ memory. Now, dear colleagues, we need to get into the agenda, and then we need to decide on a solution, a draft decree on some urgent measures to support cultural institutions during a period of economic crisis, during a period of crisis, registration number 4058. [[Here, perhaps, financial and economic]] Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[18:03:20]] For 385 Decision taken. Reporter - Javorowski Vladimir Aleksandrovich, head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u98	Dear Parliamentarians, this ruling came about as a result of your commission to the committee that I lead. I have to say that in our busy chaos at this time, thank God, we have managed to put up with you a few protective barriers in the form of regulations in order to, at any rate, today to preserve some Ukrainian culture from the exclamation, literally, of the attack that is taking place today. Most of all, they're basically budgetary institutions, but because they're very well funded, let's say in the first quarter. You know, you don't pay land taxes, you don't pay any more taxes, and right now many local authorities are starting to itch their hands: aha, so you don't pay, let's move out, throw out, that sort of thing. It's actually your assignment, you called these basic positions, we formulated them on the committee, and we offer them to you. It's on your hands right now. I would like to remind myself that it is a matter of taking immediate steps to preserve an existing network of cultural institutions: theatres, philharmonics, club facilities, museums, libraries, archives, art galleries, exhibitions, aesthetic education and leisure facilities for children and youth, cinemas, organizations that combine professional and amateur groups in different directions of all age groups, etc. You have this document on your hands, we've done it, he's been tested in law enforcement and with lawyers. I just want to let you know that while he was already registered. And the Ministry of Culture and our committee will just be a supplement. Vladimir Mikhajlovich, as you suggest, or accept what is now, as a basis, and then two small clarifications: add after “exhibitions” – “masters, members of national creative communities”. It's very important because they're throwing literally artists out of workshops today. And the second is added in the last paragraph “on account. I'm done. “At the expense of the locals” should be added “and state budgets”. If you don't mind, I'd like to support this noble determination.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u99	Dear colleagues, are there any objections? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u100	Dear reporter! Dear colleagues! I think that it would necessarily be necessary to complement “and unfinished construction”. Vladimir Aleksandrovich, you remember our efforts in the Globinsky Cultural House, where 90 percent are ready, but it was sold for 100,000 bandits, and today it is a real burden. Thus, the objects of unfinished cultural construction. It would be very good.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u101	Here, of course, if we could specify. You're right. I remember protecting this object with you. But maybe this is where you have to put how much percent, at least to learn the question. Because if it's just a foundation, someone wants it. We should think about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u102	Let us thus record that these objects can be implemented solely according to the agreement of those for whom they were built and to whom they belonged. That's it. If that's the question. That's it. National Deputy Karpuk, followed by Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u103	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, Reverend Vladimir Alexanderovich, I have one suggestion: To complete the list of measures by one more step, because many cultural institutions survive because they provide certain payment services: there, Xercopying, making books for a certain term, and so on. To complement the following paragraph: “Do a review of the list of paid services provided by cultural establishments”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u104	Society, I understand very well what this question is. I understand what you want to do better. But I'm just afraid that we might make some stylistic and other mistakes here right now. Why don't we just go in another document?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u105	I would ask you not to insist on this amendment, because we can now call on these institutions all of them, and then they'll get worse, we won't help - we'll do worse. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u106	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Dear friends, I'd like to offer you two things. First: where we are going to avoid evictions, do not reduce expenses, write down a more peremptory rule: “no eviction”, “no spending cuts”. This time. Second: about to add. Do you know what's going on in Kiev? Children’s sports clubs are being thrown out today. Children are thrown into the streets to become criminals. It's all on Chernewsky's conscience and his gang. But you have to add and write: children's sports clubs, young technicians' stations, teenagers, and so on. Because here, and that's the right thing to do, you know.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u107	I agree with you. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u108	So I'd like to add to this, because now we're in a crisis situation, and we need to somehow get the kids out of these crisis situations that are happening. And from the increase in crime, including street crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u109	Dear colleagues, there is such an offer. That's what Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin says. Let us assign our respective committee to study what is involved in the exercise of sports. We have already made decisions with you regarding libraries, publishing, and so forth. If necessary, we will make a separate decision. Because right now we're going to cut down, and that's not going to add the contents of the document. As far as the requirement is concerned, to make mandatory prescriptions, we cannot do that. Our position as the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to avoid irresponsible actions that will destroy the humanitarian base of our society. We've put the right position here.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u110	I ask you to vote because if we don't vote today, there won't be anything left to save. And everything is taken into account, what was said.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-05-m1.u111	Dear colleagues, a proposal is put to the vote, taking into account the recommendations that have been made and received support, to approve the draft decree on the basis and, in general, registration number 4058. Please vote. [[18:10:29]] For 386 I'll take the order. Dear colleagues, despite the fact that the MPs came up here, and they say we need to consider and approve the Customs Code, a new edition, and we're not going to be able to do it today, obviously, so I thank you all for your work. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at ten o'clock, attention! - on schedule for Friday. Here, in session mode.
